ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u1	For the sole reading, item 2, the Government's communication on measures to strengthen cost competitiveness will be presented. Prime Minister Juha Following Mr Sipilä's presentation, the debate will take place at a rapid pace, with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. At the end of the examination of the communication, a vote of confidence shall be taken on the part of the Government or the Minister if a motion of censure has been submitted to the Government or the Minister during the debate. Parliament may decide to refer the matter to a committee which must submit a proposal for a Parliament decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u2	Madam President! I'm sure we all want to build a better Finland. I think we all know that we are living in one of the weakest periods in Finland's economic history. In Finnish society, it is a widely accepted fact that our competitiveness has remained around 15 per cent of our key competitors. As a result, unemployment is rising faster than in other EU countries. We are in debt faster than other EU countries on average, and the employment rate is far from the level of our competitors. I believe that even the opposition largely shares the Government's vision of Finland in 2025, which, among other things, mentions this: 'In the public economy, revenue and expenditure are in balance. We're not living in debt. In Finland, hard work, work and activity are rewarded. The growing economy is based on good management, strong entrepreneurship and ownership, and the utilisation of the resources of Finland as a whole." And further: "Public power, together with Finns, makes difficult decisions to safeguard future well-being. An open and positive attitude towards each other and the surrounding world makes Finland a unique, good country." This vision, built for 2025, will guide the Government’s main efforts to overcome the ten billion sustainability gap with the following main actions: We make the agreed savings. We're taking the completed structural reforms to the finish line. We will take action under the Government Programme for employment and growth. Mr President! Employment and competitiveness will not improve on their own. For too long we have waited and hoped for the miracle of growth to come and save. Reforms in employment and competitiveness during the Government term will increase labour supply, entrepreneurship and the diversification of the business structure and will strengthen public finances by more than EUR 1 billion. The aim is to increase the employment rate to 72% and to increase the number of employed persons by 110,000 persons. The aim is for investment to finally start and exceed the number of depreciations. The following five key projects are the practical means of achieving this objective: first, to strengthen competitiveness by improving the conditions for business and entrepreneurship. Secondly, incentives to prevent labour take-up are being dismantled and structural unemployment is being reduced. Thirdly, local reconciliation is being promoted and barriers to employment are being dismantled. Fourthly, the employment administration is being reformed. Fifthly, housing construction will be increased. In addition to these measures, the government also dismantles standards for employment and entrepreneurship. The government will close the competitiveness gap of around 15% by improving cost competitiveness by around 5%. In addition, we need wage moderation, and the last third of the target is left to measures to improve productivity in companies and communities. The contribution of all the partners in the world of work is needed in these efforts. If the cost-competitive jump and wage moderation are achieved in a measurable way in 2017, the Government will waive conditional austerity measures and will clearly improve the purchasing power of employees by tax reductions of EUR 450 million in addition to next year's budget. In order to improve cost competitiveness, the Government launched negotiations in June to conclude a social contract. The first attempt was already made during the Government's detection phase. When no agreement was reached with the social partners on the objective, the government's responsibility and duty were to start preparing its own actions in its own hands. According to the Constitution, it is the government's duty to promote employment and secure basic services. That is what we are doing now, and that is the most important thing we cannot have to do. Mr President! The Government presented its own ways of improving competitiveness on 8 September. Since then, we have listened carefully to the debate on the means, the public debate and the feedback that has come from both this Chamber and the social partners. Since then, labour market organisations have tried to find compensatory measures instead of government measures, but they could not agree on it. Fortunately, last week there were concrete proposals from the social partners on the table. They should still be seen as a parallel process with the government process. So labour market organisations are now seeking a solution to both cost competitiveness and wage moderation at the same time. Mr President! The biggest criticism of the Government package announced at the beginning of September was that of cutting Sunday and overtime pay. They were perceived as unjust. From the outset, these two posts were also, according to the government's assessment, non-discriminatory treatment of all employees. The government's choice of means is narrower, but we are seriously looking for alternative ways. We are sticking to the goal, but we have announced from the outset that we will remain open. We turned all the stones ourselves until we found a better way. It was always considered that intervention in the holiday allowance was preferable, but since there was no legislation and it was only defined by collective agreements, the interpretation was that it could not be addressed by means of legislation. However, the solution was found by providing for holiday allowance in the annual holiday law. Mr President! The Government is seeking a 5% competitiveness leap through the following measures to strengthen competitiveness. The Epiphany and Helatorstai will be converted into unpaid holidays without shortening the annual working time. If the work is not done these days, the corresponding hours may be completed at another time when the work is replaced by the work done. However, in areas where work is carried out every day of the week, Epiphany and Helatorstai are no longer working days eligible for Sunday compensation, but they are paid a simple salary. Secondly, the provision on the remuneration of sick leave is amended so that the first day of absence from work is unpaid and 80 % of the normal pay for sick leave is paid for the eight subsequent days. Thereafter, sickness pay will be paid according to the collective agreement applicable to work. Thirdly, the maximum annual leave is set at six weeks. This means shortening the longest annual leave in the public sector and in some private sector sectors Fourthly, the employee is legally entitled to a holiday allowance. In order to ensure a balanced allocation of the measures, a maximum amount shall be laid down for the holiday payments in addition to the annual holiday pay and the holiday allowance. It would be about 30% less than it is now in most sectors. Fifthly, the private employer's social security contribution will be reduced by 1.72 percentage points. More specifically, the structure and timetable of funding, including possible differentiation, will be described in the spring 2016 budgetary plan. Mr President! In addition, the Government will improve the security of employees' change in the event of dismissals for productive and economic reasons. We also compensate for the cost of family leave. In a company with more than 20 employees, the dismissed worker is offered the right to re-employment training, which is at least equal to the average monthly salary of the company’s employees. Secondly, the employer must in future provide occupational health care services for companies with more than 20 employees for a period of six months after the notice period. In addition, equal treatment and employment of young women will be promoted by offsetting the costs of family leave for employers by a lump sum of EUR 2500. Now this long-standing thing on the table is going to be all right. The last item on the list, the holiday money, has been a source of debate. Until now, the holiday allowance paid in addition to the annual holiday salary and the holiday allowance has been agreed by means of sector-specific collective agreements. A statutory right of leave is now being imposed on the worker, the maximum amount of which is set at about 30% less than is now the case in a number of sectors. In practice, this means that employers who comply with a universally binding collective agreement or are tied to collective agreements on the basis of their organisation are obliged to pay some 30% lower holiday allowance unless better agreements are agreed on in employment contracts. In sectors where there is no collective agreement, a contract of employment may be agreed on holiday payment or payment as it has been up to now. If nothing is agreed, the provision to be included in the annual leave law would be respected. All the details of the actions proposed by the government are specified in the drafting of the legislation and are prepared in the normal way in cooperation with the partners in the labour market. Mr President! These actions I have presented call for changes to the Employment Contracts Act, the Working Time Act and the Annual Holidays Act. In order to achieve the desired effects, the provisions would be implemented as a maximum requirement, i.e. they should not be agreed differently in collective agreements. The provisions would not apply to collective agreements in force at the time the law came into force or to any extent to employment contracts. The actions proposed by the Government have a strong link to the Constitution, the rights it guarantees and the obligations it imposes. It is clear that intervention in the contractual system must be assessed in terms of the freedom of professional association guaranteed by the Constitution and the freedom of contract based on it. That is what the government has done in the communication, and the order of regulation will be thoroughly assessed in the legislative proposals that will be submitted in due course. Less attention often seems to be drawn to the fact that, through its unconditional actions, the government is specifically seeking to safeguard the conditions for the realisation of the social and cultural rights provided for in the Constitution. These can only be secured if public finances are taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u5	Mr President! After the formation of the spring government, it can also be considered that this depth of problems is now being interpreted more and more effectively. We'll be better aware of that. It is also increasingly understood from the point of view of our investment that first we need to improve our export competitiveness, it creates better exports, the conditions for investment, employment and growth. The Government Programme had that well-known objective of agreeing on these issues widely, and unfortunately, for well-known reasons, there were no conditions for it. That's why we need to find other ways. In fact, everything goes back to one major background issue in terms of competitiveness, and that is the single currency. We should not think that the only thing we can get out of that single currency is the delicacies, the low interest rates and the fact that there is no need to be afraid of the risk of exchange rates. You also have to learn to live with a common currency. There are actually two basic models for this. The first and most natural is that we must be able to take care of the conditions for the competitiveness of our production in a long-term and proactive way. Another basic model is the need to have sufficient freedom of local reconciliation in order to be able to respond at company level to the fact that competitiveness is maintained. Organisations would have the best and more equitable means of responding to this crisis. It can be said that these means are now behind the backs of the leaders of the organisations, and we are now acting on the means the government has. During the summer, the message came from the organizations pretty clear. They will be ready for discussions as long as they take place in the context of the next round of income policy. It is, from the point of view of these organisations, which are all in the interests of their own members, in some way understandable. But when we look at the matter from the point of view of this whole, it would be impossible for Parliament and the government to wait until the beginning of 2017 for definitive certainty. It cannot be thought that the Parliament elected in spring 2015 would expect two years of certainty in one of the main issues of the parliamentary term. It is precisely the certainty that solutions must be created earlier. Mr President! The challenge and difficulty of this whole situation is probably well illustrated by the fact that during the last parliamentary term the government and Parliament made significant savings decisions and the organisations concluded a moderate, or at least a fairly moderate, long-term income agreement, but these measures did not turn out to be the case. That is why we need more credibility now, otherwise there will be no good company. The government, as the Prime Minister has just said, listened to these reactions that came out of this proposal at the beginning of September and found a more balanced way of working. Perhaps the main criticism was that these measures are imperative. It was felt that they did not fit in with our system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u8	Mr President! Finland’s economic situation sucks. Economic growth is already falling in the third parliamentary term. For too long we have closed our eyes to economic realities, delayed decisions and waited for miraculous healing. Now the new government must act — and act for the three parliamentary term. The situation in Finland is also difficult internationally. The problem has continued since the financial crisis. Tens of billions of dollars in debt. No one should ever ask if a repair shop is necessary anymore. It is wiser to ask how to correct the downward spiral, how to avoid such distress in the future, and why a determined correction has taken so long. The Finnish economy lived for good years when we rose from the recession of the 1990s on a hard economic course. At the same time, we joined the EU and the euro, which were supposed to support exports and economic growth, but which, at the same time, permanently, permanently changed the operating principles of the Finnish economy. The former controlled, closed and, if necessary, devaluation-maintained economic system remained in the past. A new open era based on international decision-making and competitiveness began. However, thinking patterns did not change as quickly as the operating environment. The benefits of the new era were thought to be obtainable free of charge, without the need to adapt to the new rules of the game and the logic of the open economic system. This mistake was all the easier when times were exceptionally good for an exceptionally long time. Therefore, when the financial crisis and the subsequent euro crisis triggered a long international recession, Finland was still mentally unprepared for the decisions that a country operating in an open economy is forced to take. When exports stalled but devaluation was no longer possible, years of confusion followed. The option of devaluation, i.e. internal improvement of competitiveness, was not part of Finland’s political tradition. The result was that the problem was denied, decisions postponed, squabbled. Time passed — it took almost a decade. Finland became a sick man in Europe. Finally, the turning point is at hand. Only now, after 20 years of living in Europe, have we understood clearly enough how much the situation in Finland has changed in comparison with the previous recession. Today, for the first time, we have heard the Prime Minister present to Parliament measures that are credible in our current environment. When we choose internationalism and an open economy, we have also chosen a world in which it is necessary to take care of cost-competitiveness. Of course, we cannot compete with low-cost production countries at price, but we must be competitive with economies such as Finland. Of particular importance are Sweden and Germany, which have already made their own financial corrections in the past. Mr President! The welfare society is based on the idea that all those who are capable of nailing are doing productive work so that, with their input, society will then be able to care for children, the elderly and the sick. The functioning of the welfare society requires a sufficiently high employment rate. At present, the employment rate in Finland is just under 69 per cent, which is not enough. In other Nordic countries the employment rate is higher than several percentage points. The Finns defend every Finnish job like the last foxhole in Salpalinja. So does the Finnish Government, and we are not in a position to win the fight. We need to create new market-based jobs for those Finns who are currently not working. However, saving Finland is not possible by the government alone. It requires all Finns. The social partners, with their own proposals, are particularly welcome on the offer. The government alone has a much narrower choice of means than in cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u13	Mr President! You can't run away from the facts. There is a ten billion sustainability gap in public finances. Living in debt goes on for seven years, and there are no clear signs of change. Finland is in debt at a rate that is cutting down on the limits of the EU's fiscal policy rules. Big reforms are needed on the broad front. The means in your own hands must be used. We need to bring about a turnaround. We, the decision-makers elected by the people, must do what the people have chosen us to do: decisions. Decisions to safeguard the welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u22	Mr President! Finland has historically had two strong capacities to resolve social issues: trust and the ability to cooperate, especially in difficult times. The builders of our reform work have been parliamentary democracy and a strengthening contractual society. In this time I wonder how historyless and little hope for the future the recent social debate has been. In the midst of uncertainty, there are also signs of mental depression. How is it possible that we are in the middle of one of the most serious economic problems and crises in our history and, at the same time, we are drifting into a very short period of time towards a policy of trust and cooperation on the road to blame, guilt and confrontation? The answer is not enough to blame employees and their organisations; it is the easiest form of politics. During the last government term, almost all the most significant reforms to address the sustainability gap and to strengthen competitiveness were achieved through tripartite cooperation. In the run-up to the spring elections, quite vigorous speeches were made about the fact that the time for consensus is over. Consensus time is over. This new thinking is also reflected in the Government Programme. Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group cannot accept the government's forced labour law package as such, and there are many reasons for this. The compulsory law package contained in the Government communication is in deep conflict with freedom of contract and, even after the changes, is unfair in substance. In this way cuts in purchasing power, combined with savings for families with children, drive many low-income families into municipal income support. No wonder people feel that they have been treated unjustly. People will also understand the need for adjustment measures if they are fair and their load is also better distributed to those with the ability to pay. Secondly, the compulsory law package does not provide answers to the main challenges of our economic policy and growth today, namely strengthening exports, increasing investment in the country of origin, raising productivity and employment, or strengthening skills. It would be important for the government to focus on the basics of economic policy. The government has, consciously or unwittingly, tied itself up to its collars as a party to the labour market agreement and to employers in the form of attractive proposals. There has been no good experience of politicians getting involved in contract and wage policy. The discussion about holiday money is about how pulsating and messy we are again. A wise government strives for an active role, but in a balanced way. Now employers have been able to give good advice to employees under the government’s wind cover. The Socialist Parliamentary Group supports the fact that balanced support from the social partners and the government will lead to a situation of negotiation with a view to achieving results. It was a good thing that on Monday we agreed on further negotiations at the meeting of the government and organisations. The SAK and other employee organisations have made responsible openings in order to achieve a new agreement. It is a good thing that negotiations are being conducted on matters other than just this package: wage settlements, labour law, local agreement and unemployment security. It would provide greater stability in the long term for what should be done. Mr President! Since this is an important whole and there have been new impact assessments in the public domain, I propose that the communication be sent to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Finance Committee and the Economic Committee give their opinion. If Parliament does not decide to send an important matter to the committees for consideration, I will make the following motion of censure: "The policy chosen by the government violates free contract law and the fundamental rights of workers. Therefore, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." To conclude, I would like to say: It would be good to find an understanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u25	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland is in a situation where a new direction needs to be sought. Finns have always done well in difficult times because we have been united. We are also a people who have taken a long path from the poor country of the beginning of the 20th century to a prosperous economy, knowledge and education. One thing we should stick to now, and one thing we should stick to is civilisation now. We need to reform the welfare state so that we can save it. A good reform comes from the fact that everyone is involved and shares a common goal. What is this goal now? The government does want to 'do something', which means major cuts in education, the low-income, the weaker — and now the wages of those working. However, it does not have a vision of why these cuts are being made. Yes, debt is a bad thing. It's what the government says and keeps saying. But what kind of Finland will be built with these decisions? This is a government weakness. He can't even say it himself. However, actions speak for themselves. The Government believes that Finland must compete with lower prices and lower wages, longer working hours, weaker education, weaker environmental protection, traditional natural resources and a closed international position. It seems that Finland is making a supply of raw materials for growing income differentials, cheap labour and low-skilled know-how on the Sipilä Government's line, but such a strategy will never lead the world economy, and the world economy's pioneers will always be more successful than those who compete at cheap prices. So Finns deserve better. The Greens want to reform Finland, not go down the road of unseen and oversized cuts. First of all, cutting off the growth of the future is for fools. That is exactly what the Sipilä government is doing when it cuts off education and training. Investments in innovation renew our economy to know-how, which is in demand throughout the world as smart solutions move. The competitiveness of knowledge, technology and its application is more important than cost competitiveness. That's what gives us productivity, and that's what we've always done. Secondly, we must bring the rules of our labour market in a fair way in the 21st century and not look into the rear-view mirror. The working life package must also include improvements that respond to changes in work. Strengthening social security for small-time workers, small entrepreneurs and self-employed can increase the number of jobs. Basic income would be the answer to many. Local agreement would also be a good way to promote flexibility for both employers and workers, but this also requires equity and trust. Mr President! There is no guarantee that the government's proposal to cut wages will increase jobs. It would indeed weaken domestic demand and economic growth. Internal devaluation is a risky job, especially when done so badly. The government's original plan was to cut the salaries of women-dominated sectors, particularly those with low and average wages, by reducing Sunday allowances and overtime payments. The government was prepared to cut as much as 10 percent of the salaries of nurses, midwives, shopkeepers, policemen and firefighters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u28	Madam President! "Worker's been paid." This was repeated before the elections by the Chairman of the Finns Party, Timo Soini. Since the election, the tough defender of the workers has become the poodle of the tens of men on the South Bank, barking up the true Labour parties and getting irons from mountain counselors. Workers’ wages are being cheaper, that is, low-paid women and men are being put on the cheap. They're forced to cut holiday money. People are forced to work sick when they cannot afford to stay sick. Why does the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) no longer need Jyri Häkämies, their CEO from the Coalition Party, when they have Prime Minister Juha Sipilä as their representative in the Board of Directors? Obligatory laws are used to cut off workers, but only pious wishes are offered to employers. With a silver platter, the government gives employers almost all their wishes. The EK has not been willing to negotiate, because the government gives it nothing without giving up. Have we ever seen a situation in which employers are not entitled to a centralised, long-term zero solution when offered by the employee movement? Mr President! It is known that the Coalition Party has been driving sick days for a long time. But how did the chairmen of the two largest government parties comment on it almost three years ago? "In the case of Sweden, an increase in This is not what we should be doing in Finland. Sickness absenteeism is best prevented by good leadership and improving well-being at work". This is how Juha Sipilä, President of the city centre, pointed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u33	Mr President, Fru talman! Jag lovar att inte sjunga, så ni kan vara helt lugn. Finland är inte längre det framgångsrika land vi har vant oss vid. Tyvärr hör vi till de få EU-länder där economist inte växer just nu. Det finns alltså goda skäl att reformera vår economist. Det rauh förklarar också varför vi i vår ricksdagsgrupp redan före liet efferlyste arbetsmarknadsreformer. Målet bör vara att skapa jobb, för jobbe upprättthåller som cellt den finländska valfärden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u34	Madam President! A lean settlement is better than a fat fight. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group encouraged the government to reach a social agreement to which all the social partners would be committed. I was disappointed that it didn't happen. I acknowledge to Prime Minister Sipilä that, despite resistance, the objective of improving competitiveness was not abandoned and, on the other hand, the door to the negotiating table is not closed. I also acknowledge the fact that the lobbies have brought concrete proposals to improve competitiveness, even though the joint proposal has still not been drawn up. It is particularly to be welcomed that a far-reaching wage solution has now been put on the table, since wage increases could easily cut the benefits of the reforms now being presented. We hope that the negotiations will continue for real purposes and that, during the autumn, a solution will be found that can be widely accepted by the social partners and Finns. Jointly agreed measures to improve Finland’s competitiveness, taking into account sectoral differences, would give Finns new faith in the future of our country. Without its own independent monetary policy in periods of recession, it is no longer possible to improve competitiveness by undermining the value of its own currency. This has led to the fact that we no longer really have any more than one instrument of rapid action to improve competitiveness: internal devaluation. Reducing labour costs in relation to competing countries by cutting wages is much more difficult and unpleasant than reducing the value of money. This is what we all saw on Friday last week when Finland stopped for a political demonstration which, among other things, caused the loss of more than EUR 40 million to the forest industry. Before the recessions, a rigorous economic policy should be pursued and wage moderation should be sought so that costs do not run away. This has not been achieved in Finland. On the contrary, just as the international financial crisis hit Finland at the end of the last decade, there were record high wage increases in all sectors. At the end of the long boom, political decision-makers increased the pressure on large wage increases with their election promises. I hope we have learned from these mistakes now. Our total output has fallen by more than 5% from the 2008 level. It's a serious situation. As a result of the financial crisis, Finland's exports collapsed and, at the same time, the profitability of companies has deteriorated, and this has led to a sharp rise in unemployment in recent years. International demand remains weak and, in addition to the financial crisis, the slowdown in trade with Russia in particular will make it difficult for our economy to rise. At present, export revenues are up to EUR 30 billion a year, so that public sector expenditure can be financed without further indebtedness. The Christian Democrats understand the gravity of the situation. We consider the Government’s goal to improve Finland’s competitiveness by a total of 15 per cent to be right. Without drastic measures, we will not achieve economic growth or create much-needed new jobs. Improving competitiveness and increasing work are essential if we are to maintain the services of the welfare society. The measures proposed by the Government to strengthen cost-competitiveness will improve the conditions for companies to operate. The proposal to reduce the private sector social security contribution is a necessary reform to create new jobs. The question remains, however, as to how this major reform will be financed, there is no clear answer to it from the communication. We also believe that there is a need for a proposal to compensate for the costs of parenting by means of a lump sum of EUR 2500. This will contribute to the employment of young women and will make it easier for businesses, particularly in women-dominated sectors. The government also deserves to be commended for making the proposal more sensible so that the subsidy is paid to all employers who pay wages during the maternity allowance period. The previous proposal, which would have paid the subsidy only after returning to work, would have treated employers unequally. The duration of parental leave and leave of care varies greatly, and the mother does not always return to the same employer. The Group of the Christian Democrats welcomes the fact that the government listened with a sensitive ear to the citizens by giving up unfairly cutting off Sunday supplements. This reform would have hit the women-dominated low-wage sectors in particular. A 30% reduction in the holiday allowance treats employees more fairly and is therefore more acceptable. However, the number of employees of non-organised small entrepreneurs without the right to holiday allowance is 157500, according to the estimates of Finnish Entrepreneurs, and paying the holiday allowance could result in an additional cost of up to EUR 235 million. How does the government intend to take into account the loss of competitiveness that threatens these companies? The measures proposed by the Government to improve price competitiveness are not enough, as the Government itself states. We need wage moderation and other measures to improve competitiveness far into the future. It is therefore essential that the government, together with the social partners, seek an overall solution that could be accepted by all parties. We also call on the social partners. There is a need for flexibility on the part of employees, and social responsibility is also required on the part of the employer and a real desire to create and maintain jobs in Finland. Mr President! The Christian Democrats Parliamentary Group supports the Government's communication and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u35	Let me now give the floor to Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, five minutes from this podium, then the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u37	I would ask those representatives who wish to take part in the debate to stand up and press the V button. The first speeches by group speakers can take 2 minutes and then all the other speeches can take 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u38	Mr President! The Prime Minister was very diplomatic in thanking him for his constructive contributions. I do not think that all the speeches were very constructive in relation to this situation. In fact, in many of the opposition's speeches, apart from the Swedish group and the Christian Democrats, there was not much stone left over the stone of the government's proposals, which clearly makes it difficult for you to accept anything. Congressman Arhinmäki had a good song. I was not here last season, but I think you were in the government reducing corporation tax by 900 million and increasing all VAT rates by 800 million. I'm not a singer, but maybe this "Estaas, on the road of battles" would be suitable for you to quote here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u39	Mr President! Thank you to the opposition for these comments. I'm trying to get some of those constructive ones out of there. The Ihalian spoke of a mental depression. It is certainly a major threat to a country that has been in recession for so long, but it will not be corrected solely by state aid or government direction. Above all, we need to create freedom of enterprise and an atmosphere of enterprise, and we need to believe that we can manage with our own activity. It's the best way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u46	Mr President! If we start with what is likely to be widely agreed, then everyone in this Chamber will certainly hope that the social partners will find a common solution, a common one, both in terms of strengthening competitiveness and in terms of wage moderation. And it is a good thing that all the organisations there have shown a much greater sense of realism than some of the opposition's speeches. So it is a good starting point, but, just as I think Mr Terho said earlier, there can be no right of veto, but if no agreement is reached, the government must assume its responsibility, because ultimately the government has a responsibility to ensure that the employment situation in Finland is such that welfare services can be funded and well-being for future generations as well. This responsibility cannot be outsourced, and it is not done by any responsible decision-maker. Then reference was made to the technical point that this communication should be submitted to committee. The way I see it is that, when these government proposals come in due course, they will probably be before more than one committee. That is the parliamentary process that will take place. At this stage, it is a communication which will now be decided whether it will be adopted or not. And, as I said, the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party is in favour of its adoption. Finally, I cannot refrain from commenting on Mr Niinistö's speech. This is what you said if I got the quote right: "The government should not get involved in things that do not belong to it". In other words, if there is no solution in the labour market, then it should be the same as it has been so far: nothing is to be done. So your message is to continue with the free fall, the services of the welfare society are collapsing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u47	Mr President! There are two things I would like to pay attention to. The second is, therefore, that it would be extremely good to have such a wider package of solutions, i.e. two leaps, with a long-term, moderate labour market solution with measures to develop labour law, develop local reconciliation and solutions to the issue of unemployment security. This is a whole that should be negotiated and not just parts of it. That would be important in many respects. There is a need for long-term stability and predictability, above all for businesses in this country, and it would be good if some of the cornerstones of economic policy, this time labour market policy, were to be closed, otherwise this economic policy situation would be so restless and alive and many problems would arise. Some view would be in favour of such a solution. Secondly, the development of local reconciliation, if that is what we genuinely want to do. If you have this kind of coercive package that restricts local reconciliation, and if poorly prepared for the development of local reconciliation, so that it is subject to the employer's terms, then there is no good result that increases confidence in working life, and brings good local reconciliation. Increasing productivity is not done by political decisions, but productivity can only increase in working life by good cooperation, good knowledge. It results in good productivity. We must not ruin the climate in which working life is needed to increase productivity and should therefore make it hard for us to reach a common agreement on a sector-by-sector basis, on a job-by-job basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u48	Mr President! I would now like to see the seriousness of this matter. People are really worried. The feedback that has come from many public sector professions, for example, is that almost 10 per cent of the salary can still be lost, including the holiday-day cutter. It's a tough decision if the government goes to do something like this. And it is not right to laugh, to say that it is not constructive to question this policy. I wonder at the attitude of the government parties. Since 1940, Finland has not started a unilateral decision by the government to restrict labour law and to define ceilings for workers' rights when labour law has always been the basis for them. Professors have also criticized this. What the Greens are looking for is that we recognise that we have reason to improve competitiveness, but the priority is to improve productivity, the importance of well-being at work. Local agreement can also help these things if trust is in order. It's not worth putting it at risk, Prime Minister Sipilä. And second of all, wage moderation. Long-term moderate labour market agreements are even more important than leaving the government with such a very uncertain choice of means to cut wages quickly and with little force. Let's go over your presentation and its problems. You say that it creates jobs, but experts say that it is on a very uncertain basis. What are your numbers based on? In your own background calculations it has been estimated that it is impossible to know the effectiveness of a day clipper, and it is even so that experience in Hämeenlinna, for example, shows that when a supervisor can grant longer absences, expenses have decreased and trust has improved the efficiency of the system, trust is often better. The same applies to this holiday-day cutter, and the same applies to your other proposals. This is the 'hope, hope' approach, in which the only sure thing is that demand for the public sector is falling, people's wages are falling, but job creation is entirely dependent on all the money that is being transferred to large companies to deliver jobs, and probably a large proportion of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u49	Madam President! Mr Vanhanen said that the opposition's speeches were not constructive. However, the government’s actions are not very constructive either, such as forcing people to work sick when they cannot afford to be sick. Mr President! Mr Terho spoke at the mouth of the Brussels gentlemen, said that these should be done because Brussels commands them. This is a strange view from the Finns. He appealed to national governments. The last national capitalisation was held in 1993 when the National Bank of Finland issued a share issue. A few years later, it led to the destruction and merger of the bank. I hope these nationalities don't lead to that. But what is essential, Mr President, is what Mr Vanhanen said. Last season there was a real reduction in corporation tax. At the time, the industry promised that it would create new jobs and create investments. Now we'll see what's happened. Record dividends will be distributed, this year historical dividends, and at the same time negotiations and redundancies have continued. Nokian Tyres announced on Monday that they would terminate 122 employees — at the same time as EUR 736 million in dividends have been raised over four years. The question to the Prime Minister was that how can you convince and guarantee that, when billions of euros are transferred from workers to employers and a reduction in social security contributions of between EUR 800 million and EUR 900 million, these will now create jobs and investments this time, when the abolition of the Kela levy or the reduction in corporation tax, which was promised to bring them, have, on the contrary, led to an increase in dividends and an increase in redundancies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u50	Mr President, värderade talman! Det är mycket bra att regeringen har förstått att backa när det gäller det första förslaget att slopa övertidsersättningar och söndagstillagg. Men den raus processen hur man kom fram till det gör att man blir tvungen att ställa vis frågor. Nämligen om det är så att vi ar i riksdage har effecterlyst en könskonseksensvensutredning, och regeringen säger att det finns en sådan, men man presenterar inte den. Vi har från många ledamöters siida framfört att det rai kom att falla ut taiigt, och det enda som får regeringen att reagera är TVå duktiga Barnmorskor i direksändning i TV, som får en att vakna till. Då kan man fråga sig på vilken nivå lagberedningen och beredningen av stora reformer ligger just nu i Finlands regering.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u51	Madam President! I hope that all of us, the government and opposition parties together, will look for national unity in the face of this great challenge, and I still want to be confident that during this autumn that common note will also be found. Now we've all been singing our own songs. Mr Haglund, in his group speech, asked you, Prime Minister Sipilä, an important question regarding immigration. You yourself have said that immigration is a bigger problem than the economy at the moment and a challenge for us. Indeed, this explosion of asylum seekers represents not only increased reception costs but also a major challenge for integration and employment. It also offers a huge opportunity, if we are able to use it, and now that we have been able to study that budget book, I am concerned that the funds for integration will not be sufficient for us to quickly get asylum seekers and refugees who have been granted a residence permit for integration and work. I hope you will answer this question. But finally, Prime Minister Sipilä, one question: when the church holidays, the Epiphany and the Helatorstai, are now being converted into unpaid holidays, why was the May Day not included in this same thing, which could have been abandoned, for example, with regard to that helatorstai? There would have been one church holiday and then a May Day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u52	Mr President! In my opinion, the main problem with this debate in this Chamber is the lack of alternatives in this time period. You are, of course, preparing for your own on the opposition side, but now the mere sarcasm of the government's proposals does not take this debate much further. In a certain way, you are concerned about debt, but you do not think that it is sufficient to take these measures, which we consider to be of paramount importance. In my opinion, this government has also shown itself to be doing so, and you will, of course, ignore this. For example, the fact that, for once, the proportion of women has been raised to the level of action is a long time ago to be taken into account. The one-off payment of two and a half tonnes to the employer is a significant change in the employment of young women and also in that,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u54	Mr President! Prime Minister, in your presentation you said that there are no style points on the way. I have the courage to disagree, for you have shown by decisive action that if the organisations fail to reach decisions, the long-term and predictable decisions that will improve the competitiveness of this country will be used by the Finnish Government to take the measures it has. And you have also added a cooperation offer to these organisations. The government also gets stylistic points for listening. Wisdom is to correct the direction when you realize that you go wrong. This is exactly what you did with the surgery on Sundays and overtime. A one-off allowance for family leave also gives faith in women-dominated sectors. It also gives these young women the confidence that they will be able to gain more permanent employment in the SME sector. It can also promote female entrepreneurship. And above all, it encourages women to take care of their own careers and
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u55	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, your government will divide the people in two with these unjust cuts. On the other hand, economic policy is wrong in relation to the problems we have. And thirdly, you are now making a very serious mess of the labour market with this coercive package. This is a criticism. But the real question is about these calculation criteria. With regard to the acronyms for annual leave, we have a memorandum of understanding of the Ministry of Finance dated 7.9., which states that, in this economic situation, it is not advisable to carry out this cut in holidays. It would only be in the form of holiday allowance cuts for the state and municipalities and would mean significant redundancies from the public sector. 7.9. in the memorandum you have an estimate of the Ministry of Finance of 3,92 % of the impact of these savings, and then, the next day, in your own films, 5,02 %. Where did this increase of just over one per cent come from in 24 hours, when there seems to be no background notes in that direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u56	Mr President! The government is now accusing the opposition of not offering any alternatives. In fact, the government itself has been saying since spring that there is no alternative but to cut out the poorest of the poorest and despoil the services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u59	Mr President! This is a great demand for alternatives from the opposition, and I believe they are indeed coming. But now we are here to discuss the Government communication. Good government, you have an interesting strategy for presenting bad decisions. First, you announced that the housing allowance for pensioners would become a general housing allowance, which would have resulted in some pensioners losing up to hundreds of euros a month. Now you are correcting your motion so that the maximum loss is 60 euros a month.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u60	Mr President! While the Christian Democrats are pursuing a constructive opposition policy, we also have concerns here. As we all know what to reap, it is sown. If you reap misery, you reap exclusion and poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u61	Mr President! In these weeks, the Finnish people expect from the government, the parliament and the social partners only whether we are able to create the conditions for new work in a changing world and in a changing Finland — work that can pay the kind of pay that people can make. What, then, can an ordinary representative of the Finnish people in this situation do over the next few weeks? Ladies and gentlemen, the only task is to support the government and support the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u62	Mr President! It is repeated here that these wage cuts are now forced to be made in order to increase employment and what their impact on employment is. We have heard in the past that these will bring 50,000 new jobs. When we have asked what the calculation is based on — that is to say, the reduction in people's purchasing power by means of compulsory wage reductions and more jobs — it has now come to light when yesterday the VM's memos revealed what this is based on. A precise quote: "Evaluation of the impact on employment is challenging and there is considerable divergence in the views of experts." And as President Rinne said just now, in one day more than a percentage point was added before the government presented these means. What preparation is this based on? What is the basis for the assessment that these will bring jobs, because it is clear that these wage cuts will immediately bring unemployment, which will weaken the domestic market?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u63	Madam President! We have just heard the Prime Minister say in his own speech that employment and competitiveness will not improve by themselves, something must be done, and the government must play its part. Just a couple of comments. First of all, Mr Ihalainen. You said that we need a wider package, there must be an overall package. This is an attempt to create the whole, but we also need to do something right away to get moving. Let's hope this whole thing comes along. We can no longer wait a year or two for another 30,000 or 60,000 unemployed people to come to Finland. Mr Niinistö and also Mr Lindtman, if we do not know the final effects, it is not a failure to do so. Now we have to do, we have to do these things, and then we'll see how this thing goes. We believe, and businesses and entrepreneurs also believe that these will lead in the direction that will create those genuine jobs. You can't just walk away from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u64	Mr President! Mr Jaskari said one very important insight, and that is that the government must do its part. It's his part. But since when in Finland or in any Western country does it belong to the government to agree on wages and pay conditions? Please tell me a country where a parliamentary reading would have such a package, which Prime Minister Sipilä has brought here today. It is an agreement between employees and employers, how pay is determined, how holiday money is determined, and once the government has gone to a very questionable line from the point of view of the Constitution by bringing such a package here and demanding the approval of the government parties, a mess will arise, as has been seen, a great mess. You go back and forth to whom this holiday money comes. First, you have to give it to them so they can take it away. Then it will be given to those who have not had it, and then they will have to start making personal decisions. We've got a mess. If you would return to constitutional order, you would manage these indirect payments but would leave the salaries to the organizations, there would be a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u65	Mr President! I'm sure there's a difference of opinion about what you have to do. Is it necessary for the government to confuse the labour market with a little forceful in making very weak proposals? When we look through them, this holiday money proposal is such that it does not seem terribly meaningful when part is received and part is taken. Then there's the holiday surgery. Why is a holiday worse than negotiating more pay for yourself in negotiations? In other words, the government has chosen from there individual means which are not terribly effective because it is precisely the position of employees and employers who are in a position to re-evaluate it in agreement between workers and employers. The government must give it room, because a good leader listens, a good leader tries to find good compromises. We are now sacrificing people's salaries by very inefficient means, and at the same time we do not know if it will do any good. A full-blown pomp, and then we'll see if there'll be any jobs. Finland will not be reformed by hossum.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u66	Next, Minister Stubb will be in his seat for three minutes, and then we will continue with this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u67	Madam President! If I were to say one such general comment and then one a little more specific. As a general comment, perhaps, on that speech by Mr Heinäluoma: I have always believed strongly that the best society is created by a combination of liberal democracy and a social market economy. Liberal democracy and the social market economy have a certain role to play. The Government is democraticly accountable to Parliament and the voters of Parliament. The labour market has a role to play in the development of the labour market system, and the private sector has a role that creates that well-being in this society, the tax resources. Now, in my opinion, we are in a situation where all these people live in symbiosis. We are in a situation where everyone has a common picture of the Finnish economy, which is not currently drawing. Someone said there that there would have been a representative, Jaskari, that it cannot be done. We are in a situation where we all have responsibility for results. The government has responsibility for the results. In my opinion, the opposition has every right to criticise the actions of the government. But we cannot leave employment and economic growth to others. That is why we have presented these four plus one post. That is why, at the same time, there is a path through the social partners. Then we will come to this detail. That is that we stick to our objectives, which are 5 plus 5 plus 5 %. We will not compromise on these, and we have given the social partners from the outset the opportunity to put forward different means and they are looking for them at the moment. So we stick to our goals and timetables, but we are prepared to discuss these means. Perhaps we should ask you, on the part of the government, what we would ask of you, on the part of the opposition: tell us what alternative means we could use, and then we will have a joint constructive debate with the social partners at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u68	Mr President! We certainly agree that the differences in morbidity in this society are large, and that is one of the serious problems of equality and equality. Now, if we look at these instruments that the government has provided, it will be the result of sickness. If we look at how this will be achieved on the basis of your own assessment, then it says that the knowledge base is very uncertain, cannot count on the results that will result from this, and that, on the one hand, there may be an increase in sick employment and, on the other hand, a reduction in replacements and, on the other hand, its employment effects are questionable. But we know that, for example, the annual salary of a person working in the real estate sector who is under the average is cut by EUR 700. But what is most worrying is those who are seriously ill, such as a cancer sufferer who has to be absent several times because of treatments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u69	Mr President! There's a suspect here that the government is coming to the organization property. I can assure everyone here that the starting point for this government is precisely freedom of contract, but now that our cost level has risen to a high level, it must be temporarily steered downwards in this exceptional state. But, of course, there is a desire for freedom of contract and for more flexible working conditions to be agreed in companies as well. I would like to emphasise that, when many here speak beautifully of contract freedom, it has not happened at all in many small companies where, at individual level in Finland, an exceptionally coercive collective agreement has prevented the adoption of solutions that could increase employment and investment in Finland. These issues have clearly not been of interest to representatives of Heinäluoma and Ihalainen in their previous role. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u70	Mr President! We are beginning to be at the heart of this issue, Mr Vartiainen. When you say that freedom of contract is in force, is it now in force with this compulsory legislation? It is not in force, you are in the process of making a decision prohibiting doing anything other than what you decide. I don't want you to make a better deal. I want you to cut the holiday money and tell me this is the maximum. You will prevent the payment of sickness benefits and you will put people on sick leave without sickness compensation. That's a pretty tough piece of legislation. It's coercive legislation. This line of yours, Mr Stubb, has nothing to do with liberal democracy. Now this proposal should definitely be sent to the Legal Committees to look this through carefully. A great deal of new information has been received yesterday about the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, which we were not told at all. Do we have it all figured out yet? I therefore hope that this will go to committee and that Parliament as a whole will want to look into what is being done here and how this will affect fundamental rights. If this is accepted, then the next thing I know is to regulate the rent.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u71	Mr. Speaker! When the Prime Minister announced the government's plan, both at the beginning of the speech and later on, the social partners were called upon to agree now on the issues which they have taken to agree on. That is also what Mr Ihalainen and many others have called for. Certainly in these respects, the agreement would be better than what is at hand here. But of course the government must take responsibility in every situation and it must have a plan for how to proceed if there is no agreement. But the process must support that process of social partners. It would also have an impact on the atmosphere and avoid confrontation. Besides, material help would come, tax cuts plus bad cuts could be withdrawn. To the end, all I'm saying is that if this country loses the art and will of reconciliation, there's not much of a future for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u72	Mr President! It is shocking, though, when an impact assessment is not carried out. You told us in your own objectives that solutions will be made as evenly as possible. Yes, your medical surgery is far from fair. Even a small survey of the service sectors where there are many part-time women working in the trade sector: You are taking away 50% of your weekly working time with this solution in many cases. For example, the number of part-time employees in the Alko region is 95 per cent, taking into account seasonal variations. There are many people there whose working week lasts 10 hours, and you are taking up a significant part of it for one day. How dare you? - But you dare.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u73	Mr President! I think one very difficult point in this government proposal is that the government proposes that the first day of sickness be unpaid. In Sweden this was introduced a few years ago, and there is currently a debate in Sweden about whether it is worth sticking to this system. There are both advocates and those who criticise this system. So now I ask how much the government, before proposing this same system to Finland, looked at the experiences of Sweden in this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u74	Mr President! I am actually pleased that this debate in this Chamber is very constructive if you listen to it with a very sensitive ear. Even Mr Arhinmäki's singing performance is quite constructive — and positive if you listen to what Mr Arhinmäki sang in it. I thought you were singing, "This is how a jacket swings, this is how a jacket swings." Well, I'm sure everyone's jacket is swinging in this room because the winds of change are blowing, but the positive thing is that, Mr Arhinmäki, you did not fall so low that you would have talked about any turnaround, but only about waving, and that too must be seen as a positive thing. It is just as the Prime Minister said: Why are these measures being taken? They are made to improve employment and create 110,000 new jobs and are directly linked to debt-taking. Today, we are giving the baby a maternity kit with a price of EUR 274, but a note of EUR 17000 has been placed on the maternity kit between the mattress. And does the opposition want to increase the amount of this bond?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u75	Mr President! Once again, as Mr Turunen has just pointed out to these employment effects, when I asked the Minister for Finance, he failed to answer what these estimates are based on when his own officials' memos state that the assessment of the impact on employment is challenging and that there is considerable divergence in the views of experts. After all, these would only come into force in 2017, and now we are trying to find quick solutions. This is a big mess and a difficult path you're going to take. This is the wrong way. And when the alternative was asked, we all feel that it would be better for the social partners and the government to reach an agreement. But the government's own actions make it difficult for you to put a knife to the throat to the other side of the negotiations and say that now settle as others wish. This is shown, for example, by your calculation of this medical fine, based on EK calculations. You have allowed one party to influence the decisions and arguments that you have made. Is this fair?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u76	Mr President! Sickness Day is really irresponsible if you think of many workers in the care and care sector. They have a family to support. They're wondering if there's enough money to lose a day's pay for a little cold. I would suggest that this should also be considered on a social level, because it is also wrong, however, for a small entrepreneur to have to pay for the fact that workers are suffering a great deal. Some sort of solidarity solution could be sought for this, as has been done in this one-off payment for parenting costs. I would ask you to consider this. Then I wonder when it comes to the competitiveness package, where is the information on the digital loop and its impact on competitiveness. A service channel project, for example, was launched last season, which is needed because different software and databases can communicate flexibly and smoothly with each other. I would like to ask the government at what stage there is a national gateway.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u77	This is the minute, Minister Lindström, from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u78	Mr President! Briefly. A few questions came to me, first of all, regarding the local arrangement. A few comments: Mr Ihalainen drew attention to the fact that this is not an employer-driven development of local reconciliation. No, it's not. Otherwise, it doesn't say the word "comply." Agreement means that both sides agree. The dictation is something else. And this liquidator, Harri Hietala — I have had many conversations with him along the way — was indeed 15.10. gives this report and has been cookied that he will give an ambitious report and an ambitious report. And this is the answer to this question, this local agreement. At best, it is an excellent thing for local reconciliation to be developed. It's not a dictation. I'm sorry the time is short. I will respond next, if there is time, to this issue of integration and many other comments, but this in response to local agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u79	Mr President! Now that this discussion has been listened to, the views here begin to become quite clear. If I have understood correctly what, for example, representatives of Heinäluoma and Lindtman has said here, and we all agree that it would be best if the social partners, together, found a solution that makes both this competitive leap and a moderate wage solution. But if there is no solution, then your message is that then you have to raise your hands and do nothing at all, while the government's message is that, in the absence of such a solution, the government must take responsibility for Finland's employment and the financing of the welfare society and then take its own decisions if no common agreement can be reached. And there is a really big and significant difference here, and it is good that it has now become clear during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u80	Mr President! Yes, this is a really big mess and a mess. I have never seen such a thing in my career that the government makes proposals, withdraws them and goes to areas that do not belong to the government. But I am particularly amazed at the poor quality of this preparation. A proposal was made here to reduce the annual leave and this was justified by cost savings. Now, the Ministry of Finance's own memorandum, which has been published, says that "A reduction in annual income would reduce expenditure directly from the state and municipalities only by the amount of the holiday allowance. Otherwise, the savings will only be realised if they commit themselves to significant staff reductions in the very short term". This is not, however, proposed or recommended. I believe that this is such a big issue that this cannot be decided or resolved in this auction, but that this should be taken to committee, the expert committees would issue an opinion. A month can be set aside for this, and let's see what this whole thing is, and we don't talk about things with a bag on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u81	Exceptionally, a new ministerial address, Mr Stubb, will be on the spot for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u82	Mr President! According to a short formula, I don't think Congressman Haatainen was here last season. I can tell you that a couple of times it happened that the government made a proposal and then withdrew it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u83	Mr President! I would now ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, to answer the question that has been asked as to what you think these calculations mean and whether they recommend this cut in the annual leave. Is it like this or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u84	Congressman Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u88	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen, based on empirical studies in Finland, offers greater opportunities for local reconciliation than is used. Based on empirical surveys, Finland has the most flexible working time arrangements in the EU countries. Secondly, for Mr Jaskar: It would be much quicker to achieve that package than the forced package that would enter into force in 2017, would it not? This issue we are talking about should be negotiated much earlier and should create credibility in our economy, in the labour market, in wage formation and so on. One advice might be — or at least a wish — for the government: Please don't bring these coercive billings here in Parliament. Leave time to the organizations in peace now to negotiate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u89	Representative Haglund and then Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u90	Mr President! Local agreement, just as Mr Ihalainen said, is theoretically possible in Finland. That is very true, but we all know that this is not going to happen in practice. This is also the reason why measures are needed, because local agreement in practice can make it possible not to go into this heavy procedure, as is very often the case in Finland, and this is reflected in our employment statistics as very ugly figures. We all have to admit this. You, Mr Prime Minister, have already responded very well to these comments relating to entrepreneurs. My concern again is that there are a lot of experts on the Internet who doubt whether it is really possible to deal with this in such a way that entrepreneurs do not become a sufferer. I hope this is possible, because otherwise it will be quite a pancake for this last-minute change of yours. You, Mr Prime Minister, during the last period were quite feisty in that big old room, you reproached the previous government for having poorly prepared proposals which were quickly brought here. Now you are a little guilty of the same thing, so put this behind your ear, because it does not make the work of our representatives any easier. But I encourage you to continue to make determined preparations for change.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u91	Mr Stubb, on-the-spot for 1 minute, and then, after a somewhat longer round of speeches, ministers will have one minute's speaking time. Now 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u92	Mr President! I'd like to answer two questions. Perhaps the first relates to Mr Rinte and Mr Haglund's question. As former Minister of Finance, Mr Rinne, I am sure you are well aware that before we go into lawmaking as such, we will make various calculations at the Ministry of Finance. For example, we looked at this package not only at the four measures, but, as you well know, Sunday supplements, we looked at overtime payments, and we also looked at the VAT package. We constantly have different departments counting and looking at different formations of this whole. And then, as we said here, we are going for 5%, and when the legislative process begins, we are also going to verify 5%. Then, Mr Ihalainen, you referred here to the local agreement. I do not know how many of you have seen the World Economic Forum's research and exit yesterday, where we fell eighth in competitiveness from 140 countries. Our strengths are health and basic education, the functioning of economic and social institutions and the abundance of innovations, but our weakness, our great weakness, is that among 140 countries, Finland is 140th in local reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u93	Representatives Rinne, Arhinmäki, Lepomäki and Niinistö, in this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u94	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Stubb, that is exactly the way it is done in the Ministry when things are being prepared. Perhaps the difference between us and you is that I listened to the solutions and explanations that came from there. Now it seems that the pay for sick periods is only built on the foundations of the EK, the Confederation of Finnish Industries, that estimate from there. This is going to feel very strange. You'll find those experts at the Ministry to evaluate this too. Why wasn't it brought here for the Ministry's assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u95	Mr President! The calculations published by the Ministry of Finance show that the government’s proposals are on a weak footing. The figures have been thin in the past. We talked about 50,000 new jobs, and now Prime Minister Sipilä has already talked about 110,000 jobs. At this rate, this package will already bring us half a million jobs before it is fixed if this is the rate. But, Mr President, I have asked Prime Minister Sipilä, I have asked the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, how do you guarantee that now that billions of employees' money and 800 to 900 million state money are given to employers, they will create jobs and investment? In no way have you told us how you can guarantee it. Minister of Labour Lindström, you are known as an honest man who will tell you directly how things are. You tell me what the mechanism is for this money to be transferred directly to employment and investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u96	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki was surprised when companies paid dividends in his earlier speech. They pay dividends because they are not worth investing in this country. Mr Stubb has just mentioned the latest study by the World Economic Forum, and it is quite harsh in the language that, apart from the fact that we do not have the labour market working, we are certainly not going to have those investments. There will be no foreign investment as much as there will be domestic investment. We'll be number 80 if we look at them. Indeed, in terms of such nice, soft values, we are doing well here, but we will probably be doing well for as long as we still have enough money. And that would seem rather bad in this regard if this country were to be entrusted to the opposition. That is why the promotion of local reconciliation and freedom of contract is the first on this agenda. And contrary to what the men of the old union here want us to believe, freedom of contract does not mean freedom of contract for social partners, but that it can be applied on a per unit basis at the workplace level.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u97	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen spoke very well earlier about the importance of local reconciliation, and I would like to take it up. We Greens do see a lot of opportunities for local agreement, but here is something on which there is a great deal of consensus. Now we should only talk about how it will be implemented in such a way that both employees and employers benefit from it. In Sweden, we have an example of a country which has not started off with a government going unilaterally to take such decisions, which is what is being done now. There, at the central level, they make very general frames, and there is much more room for local reconciliation. What is essential is that collective agreements lay down the basis and can only be derogated from it by common agreement. I also see that the position of Finnish entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs in these discussions needs to be strengthened, because the Confederation of Finnish Industries represents only a very small minority of Finnish companies. It is also worth remembering that the world is changing, but what is essential is that the government jeopardises the collective desire of workers and employers to make both sectoral flexibility and local agreement in collective agreements if you:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u98	Mr President! Just as opposition leader Niinistö said, the world is changing, but are we changing? I have to describe a deep difference of thinking with the representatives of Haatainen and Pekonen, who here have mocked and resented the government changing its decisions. On the other hand, I see that the Prime Minister's speech, for example, that the opinion of the midwives had a bearing on the fact that the government once again wanted to see the fairness of the package realised, is such a message for the citizens that they are being listened to and that their views are appreciated. And the other side of this issue is that I may not have heard the actual alternatives of the opposition here, how you would deal with this issue of competitiveness, but to my sense of justice, when it was the idea of making progress, for example, through the increase in VAT, there is no room for the workers not to take part in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u99	Mr President! The first thing I have to say is that I know that children have selective hearing, and now it seems that the opposition does have selective literacy. First of all, when it comes to local agreement, it must be remembered that there will then be a contract law, and this government proposal states in clear Finnish that these government measures and coercive measures do not apply to any part of the contract of employment. It also states that they do not apply to existing collective agreements. Are you afraid that a contract of employment has no power in this country? Are you afraid of the employer or the employee at this point? Contracts of employment can always be concluded. On top of that, you have not taken any account of the fact that, now that we receive the holiday allowance for the 10% of the employed — people who work — who have never had it before — it is absolutely equality. It is absolutely equality, and it brings equal rights to workers in all areas. This is what I see.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u100	Representative Uotila and then representative Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u101	Mr President! I am concerned about future cost competitiveness. On Saturday I listened with a sensitive ear to EK's Häkäman and also on Monday. On Saturday, he said that there was no room for compromises; on Monday, he continued to reject the creation of a centralised income agreement and said that it was the union-specific shift. But he gave a green light to the SAK's proposal to make a solution in which the open-sector solutions of the industry would strike through all other sectors. Now, with this compulsory legislation, you are also making very tough compensation requirements for the export sector by cutting wages, continuing working hours and attacking sick pay. How do you ensure wage developments when the export industries, such as paper, metal, engage in union-specific negotiation of agreements with this burden on their necks? How do you secure wage moderation and wage developments, which, according to their example, will then be spread to all others?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u102	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen has gone to the very heart of this question when he said that there is a fear here that collective agreements will no longer be in force, that there will be no confidence in them. They are in force, but the government is now asking you, Mr Tolppanen, to give a mandate to this end in autumn 2016. From then on, Parliament or the Government will make decisions on working conditions, setting maximums for what can be agreed. It is a forced society, and it is not part of Western democracy, and I hope that Parliament will really wonder whether this line will be supported. When you were talking about holiday money, is it not great if 150,000 people get holiday money, that is great, but I have listened to the chairman of the centre group, Matti Vanhan, who has said that this is not the way it is supposed to be? That's not what we're supposed to do, he said, you have to take it off somehow.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u103	Mr President! I would also like to remind the opposition that we have a labour contract law in the labour law, and this government proposal allows the employment contract to pass over the government's coercive measures. We also have the means to keep workers in this country, and the government does not want to take them away, but the government definitely wants to have a more balanced presence in this country and also training for people who have to be laid off and health at work for six months after the job has been lost. Moreover, it is an absolute good thing that 2,500 will also come to the employer whose woman will become pregnant. That's a very good thing. It's also equality. It is a development that is worth taking forward in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u104	Mr President! It amazes me in this debate that when the Prime Minister Sipilä has presented the real right alternative to raising Finland out of the swamp, and what Matti Vanhanen said in his own speech, so do we still not have this crisis awareness in this country that has spread beyond this. I am very surprised that this debt-taking, as it were at present in Finland, is a small thing. This is probably one of the most difficult situations in Finland's economic history. There is one more thing to say, Mr President, and that is that international credit rating agencies are following the situation in Finland with extreme concern and are making a fall in our creditworthiness, which means an immediate increase in the interest rate on debt. Is that what the government would wait for our debt to rise? For 100 billion, every percentage is one billion out of the state budget. It would hit the most unemployed, low-income, sick people, which would be really hard for the future of this country and for the well-being of people. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u105	Mr President! I ask whether Prime Minister Juha Sipilä disagrees with Business Director Juha Sipilä, who said convincingly in 97 that Finland can compete only with knowledge, not at the cost of the labour force. And I also ask you at what stage and why you decided to change your mind that a medical fine is a good idea, especially when the country from which the model has been copied is making the opposite changes. Mr Stubb, yesterday I have asked twice what calculations this lack of price competitiveness is based on. I haven't received an answer. Can you answer because it would be very important for this Chamber to talk about the same figures?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u106	Mr President! Competitiveness and employment are certainly not improving on their own. It is valuable that we can have this debate here, a referral debate on how the government will take important steps forward in order to create work in Finland. In my opinion, the opposition's line is indeed ice-cold and rock-hard. When we listened to your speeches, you said that nothing was going to happen, nothing was going to happen. In this competitiveness leap package, equality also leaps. I would like to thank you for the fact that the cost of parenting, which has been discussed for a long time, is indeed on the way. It is a good sign that this government is making a real policy of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u107	Mr President! The government first tried to reach a social pact that failed because it would have been the hardest to deal with the women-dominated sectors of low pay and shift work, where the financial loss would have been the greatest in relative terms. The government then announced that it will implement the cost savings of the labour force in another way. All proposals will be implemented under a compulsory law, which is usually used in countries where democracy takes its first steps — in Finland, where after two years the centenary of democracy and democracy will be celebrated. It's absurd, isn't it? The government's drugs are tough: vacations are getting shorter, holiday money is getting smaller, holy people are not paid, medical care is being launched and so on. Minister Lindström, before the election, you were his best friend. My question is, how did you become the workman's chastiser behind you?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u108	Mr President! Cost-competitiveness decisions are part of the package. Yesterday, expenditure adjustment and key growth projects were discussed. The government has been fair and long-standing in this process, and we must acknowledge that. A third opportunity has now been given to labour market organisations to find a solution in which a cost-competitive solution can be found on the labour market organisation's own resources and also a moderate wage solution. In exchange for this, the government has made a promise of tax reduction of EUR 1 billion and the abolition of new savings. This is such a good offer that it is worth accepting. But what is most worrying about this is that we currently have an opposition which did not have any proposals of its own yesterday, there are no proposals of its own today, and there certainly will not be any proposals of its own tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u109	Mr President! I understand you have a bad listening skills when you're thinking about yesterday's conversation. There were a lot of proposals, and it was also said that in November our economic policy option will be presented in the context of the budget. But I'd like to ask you a question, Prime Minister. From Sipilä now whether or not the holiday allowance right is coming for all those who are not currently covered by collective agreements. That is the answer to this simple question. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, if you could simply answer what the effects of this coercive package will be, how it will affect tax revenues and how it will affect the 2016 budget and then the economic plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u111	Ministers will reply shortly, but a few more speeches will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u112	Mr President! When you listen to this noise from the opposition, you cannot help but think of the much quoted hill-jump legend, which said that nothing can be undone.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u113	Mr President! There are so many things here that could be criticised. I'll start fast. We know nothing about the impact of government cuts on employment, but we know that purchasing power will fall instead. It is also a very big problem for the government to take decisions without considering their consequences, as has been the case in recent days. We took part in quite a number of MPs in the economic defence course last month, and there a member of the government asked whether Nokia rose due to low labour costs or high-quality products. We know that the answer is the latter. But what is the government doing? You cut off education, you cut off research and an equal welfare society, that is, our future. This is not a right-wing question. There have been messages from the Etla direction of the EK about the fact that this is not worth it. This is 150 years of financial research.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u114	Mr President! Representative Ihalainen gave a speech here with good points. He's made good speeches before. I quote from the SAK Council speech, which has been headlined that SAK should support Finland's participation in EMU. He well states that "the changeover to the single currency means a clear change in the rules of the game in Finland. The devaluation's off. Adapting to low inflation is essential. In this objective, failure cannot be offset by exchange rate decisions, but we ourselves must bear the consequences.' . In such a world we should not look back; we have never lived in such a world before. Continuous global restructuring, digitalisation, mobilization, robotics are advancing. Here we need to build the employment bridge and just do the reforms that have been on the table. It is also good for the opposition to see this change that is going on with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u115	President! It was a real quote. It follows from all of this that the constant spiral of devaluation and inflation was overcome by that solution. But it follows that, when one of the instruments of economic policy is withdrawn at national level, monetary policy becomes more important than ever to coordinate fiscal, budgetary and labour market policies, not to break down. And that's our strength. This is the result of this EMU solution, and it does not fit for us to break up the whole system of agreements, but for us to try to strengthen this coordination on these very grounds of economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u116	Mr. Speaker! That's right. And when voters in the elections and even after the elections have wanted political decision-makers to be determined, reform, solutions and leadership, that is what Juha Sipilä as Prime Minister and the entire government has shown. It also creates a new political culture, precisely what Mr Ihalainen was calling for here, by setting objectives, clear objectives, but not by asking questions of authority about the solutions that will reach them. This gives room for all potential social actors, this is a new culture. Maybe that's why it's a little hard to accept in some places. The elected parliament and government is the only one in this country who looks at the whole. No one else really looks at them, and that is why the government and Parliament have full responsibility for the whole that it will succeed. The fundamentals of economic policy are the first thing the government wants to take forward in the process of reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u117	Mr President! Yesterday's competitiveness report criticised Finland for the rigidity of wage formation. But what is the government doing? It is making it even more stiffer, taking decision-making away from where expertise is best, i.e. from the social partners. What is your new political culture, your reform? Pay regulation! So this government, which has set itself the goal of deregulation, comes to the site of the social partners by means of wage regulation by interfering with holiday wages, sick pay and, in general, with the wage-setting mechanism that has been a traditional way for us to ensure Finland’s competitiveness. It should now be reasonable to expect a broad solution from the social partners that would agree on wages, conditions, unemployment security, local agreement and so on. In addition, we should take care of our long-term competitiveness by investing in education, research and product development and social sustainability in general — that everyone here can count on everyone to have their own work and enterprise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u118	Mr President! I think it is essential that we proceed on two tracks at the moment. On the one hand, the government is committed to improving competitiveness and, therefore, to improving employment. At the same time, the social partners are negotiating whether there would be an agreement between them to achieve these improvements in competitiveness. There is time for negotiations at the moment. Of course, it would be better if solutions were reached by consensus. Then the entire palette will be in use, and there will also be no such dark clouds in view of the pay decisions that will be made in a year’s time. There have been calls for assurances from the government that, if competitiveness is improved, it will indeed lead to an increase in employment. I repeat my question: say at least one expert on the opposition who would deny that improved competitiveness will lead to long-term improvements in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u119	Mr President! The opposition has a lot of stuff that they say no to. If you say no to everything, it will lead to Finland becoming periphery and the country will die. We are not asking the opposition or the professors whether this country should be led. We're in charge of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u120	Mr President! I would also appeal to the government to take responsibility in the longer term. Is it really worth driving down that contract society model? The whole Finnish society, in fact the Nordic model of society that is being viewed around the world, has been based on the fact that people are able to agree here, that labour market solutions are being made here, together with the government and the social partners. Do not compromise this long line, which has been the strength of Finnish society for decades. I repeat the question: what risk is there that the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) repeatedly rejects the pursuit of a centralised labour market solution and thus jeopardises our cost-competitive development in the longer term? Do something about this now and don't just look behind the back of the EK.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u121	Mr President! About 20 years ago, Germany was in the same situation as Finland now. In 2000, the then Chancellor of the Socialist Party, Gerhard Schröder, concluded the so-called Hartz agreement, which, without giving up the general commitment, left the local agreement as an opportunity for employers as well. In practice, this led to an agreement on working conditions, including wage reductions in extreme circumstances, on a company-by-company basis. Afterwards, when we look at what this led to, Schröder in itself lost his place in the elections, but Germany started to start. At the moment, Germany is the only one who actually succeeds at this euro rate in all markets, and the analysts who have wondered why have come to the conclusion that it is local agreement that has left so much flexibility that both the worker and the employer should:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u122	Mr President! For example, this expensive soup will be created if factories, for example, are allowed to stand on a strike wave. If we are being honest, Mr President, then this whole mess, where we are now, did leave when the entire government, under Prime Minister Sipilä, jumped into the locker booth of the Confederation of Finnish Industries. It's just that the skirts of Soin's turned coat are all over the doorpost, and that's where we're in the locker room. The Confederation of Finnish Industries is led by the group duo Häkämies—Oksala, and now this chain has been joined by Prime Minister Sipilä, and there is also this post written in the locker booth. The question has been raised here, for example, that the sickness penalty now being imposed on the citizens is, in a way, only condemned on the basis of the calculations of the Confederation of Finnish Industries. You say, Prime Minister, that abnormal times call for extraordinary measures, and that obviously means that now we have in our hands
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u123	And at this point, Minister Stubb, three minutes off the scene, and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u124	Mr President! I would like to answer three questions which have actually come from many directions, but in particular from Mrs Aalto and Mrs Rinte. The first question was: what are these estimates based on? They have actually been working for several weeks and, as always, they are based on our best civil servant expertise, both at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and then at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. So they do different calculations. As Mr Rinne knows well, in the Ministry of Finance, much of the budget department and the Economics department make the calculation models on which all our measures are ultimately based. And of course these travel along the way, because economics is not an exact science either. But it is based on strong expertise that this is not a so-called out of my stetson policy, but a very thorough review of the whole. And they are now online as far as they have been injected there for the time being. And of course they'll talk to economists, lawyers, professors along the way. The second question concerned this issue of employment. I understand that these are rather rough estimates, but the starting point is — and the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance are obviously based on different expertise, but Martti Hetemäki has said that if unit labour costs fall, the calculated formula is that the employment situation improves by around 2.5%. And if it improves by between 2% and 3%, then there is talk of a fork of between 50,000 and 75,000 jobs. Can this be verified and said that this will happen? Of course not. Some of it is dynamic and some have then been modeled from other parts of the world. The last question was from Mr Rinne whether we are aware of the fiscal impact or the impact on public finances and so on. I was in the impression that this whole debate is based on our basic memo on the background to the assessment of measures to reduce unit labour costs. These tables are, after all, in these three sections, the first of which goes through the impact of our package of measures on unit labour costs, that is the 5% table. Then we will go over the impact of the calculations on state and local government savings, and according to this, I will just quickly read: "The gross savings of the state and municipalities total EUR 1538 million. Of this amount, direct savings are approximately 682 and indirect 856." So that's the effect. And then there will be the final impact here at the end of the year, on public finances in general: 'The fiscal deterioration of the measures, the impact on taxes on the wages and salaries sum and the parafiscal charges', and they are shown in this third table.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u125	Now, Prime Minister, three minutes, and after him, if there is enough room for discussion, we will continue to speak for about half an hour, and then we will proceed to the actual speeches. Now, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u126	Mr President! This is certainly not something that is being bullied. This certainly includes measures that you would never have wanted to take. This is because we have not been able to live in the Emu era and adapt our competitiveness to this situation. We have a seven-year history in which the economy has still not reached its 2008 level. Should organisations agree on better terms in this situation and in fact make this package? Yes, I should. Well, has anyone tried it? Yes, there have been attempts, three times, in fact, the fourth time is already on the way. Then these predictions for the future. Congressman Rinne and a lot of other people are asking around here. It is certainly not easy to predict the future; it is always based on estimates. Is there any guarantee they can give you? Who can guarantee the future? However, as Mr Zyskowicz said, any improvement in competitiveness will ensure an improvement in employment. That's for sure. This is one small part of improving competitiveness. Finland must continue to compete with knowledge, and this package will by no means take away that competitive advantage. Under no circumstances will it take away its competitiveness. It's just that we haven't done it for too long now. Congressman Rintelle, I'll take it again. In those areas where there is no collective agreement and where there is no collective agreement, the contract of employment can still be agreed on holiday payment or payment, as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u131	And now, Prime Minister, let's stick to the agreements. Next, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u132	Mr President! I recall Mrs Kääriäinen's speech, which had the voice of reason when you were genuinely concerned about this contractual society and the culture of negotiation. Prime Minister, I have a history, a history of ideas. You actually say that there have been three or four laps of government here, but when history is studied and told, it will be found that these first negotiations were similar to the fact that the social partners genuinely felt that the government of the country, under your leadership, is in the same uniform as the Confederation of Finnish Industries. This is what I say and estimate that the history writing will prove this. Now it must be another type of situation, and I personally hope that you will also now evaluate a little of these advisers of yours, that genuinely
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u133	Thank you, and now Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u134	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, said that these activities have been worked on for weeks. Well, cutting the holiday allowance was invented on Monday, and as has been revealed in this debate, you do not know what you are doing. But, Mr President, Prime Minister Sipilä, who just left here, said that improving competitiveness has always improved employment. If you look at the last few years, the competitiveness of Finnish work vis-à-vis competitors has improved with wage moderation. But what happened? Unemployment has increased, negotiations have increased, redundancies have increased. When the Kela levy was abolished, when the tax paid by the companies was reduced, the dynamic effects to which you are now, Stubb, are also invoked. I'm gonna ask you one more time. What are the means by which you will ensure that this dividend is not distributed to increasing dividends?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u135	The third opposition issue, Mr Heinäluoma, is behind us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u136	Mr President! Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has left, but I will return to this basic case of his, which assumes that when a government has a good objective and its name is competitiveness, then fundamental rights will lapse. — Don’t laugh, Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u139	Mr President! From this point of view, the opposition has repeatedly denied the government a sense of patience and foresight. Be patient if what has been shown by Finland in dealing with this crisis to an excessive extent. We are facing a recession of about ten years and we are still asking for patience and foresight, which means postponing measures. That is simply no longer possible. A contractual society is a good thing and has also been the primary solution of the government in the current situation. But if the contractual society does not make the necessary decisions, now, after almost ten years, then they will be taken in an alternative way. And this is no longer the case that a contractual society means the right of veto to prevent reform. It has to mean solutions. We can no longer stay here, as you call it from the opposition, in the soup and mess that has not been created by this government for a few months, but by the ten years before that, when this mess was allowed to burn to the ground on the stove.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u140	Mr President! So, ladies and gentlemen, these measures are being taken because so many years have either been done wrong or very little has been done. Here yesterday, in the budgetary referral debate, the opposition often quoted Nobel Prize-winning researcher Joseph Stiglitz, who said that we should continue to revive ourselves. From 2008 to 2014 EUR 57.5 billion has been recovered,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u141	Representatives Oinonen, Jaskari and Rinne, followed by Minister Lindström, from the scene for 3 minutes. So next up is Congressman Oinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u142	Mr President! In his previous speech, Mr Ojala, the representative of the SDP, strongly criticised Mr Lindström and his actions. The previous government inherited nearly 200,000 unemployed — I repeat, nearly 200,000 unemployed — to Mr Lindström, Minister for Labour. This mass of unemployed people was left to the SDP, the left, the RKP, the Greens and the Christian people who were then in the government to deal with our current Minister for Labour, Lindström. You explained the large number of unemployed people in a global recession, made it difficult for them to export. You are now shamelessly accusing Mr Lindström of the large number of unemployed and the fact that he is doing little to reduce unemployment. This is a low opposition policy that I have not noticed during the previous government, at least with regard to Mr Ihalainen, the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u143	Congressman Lindtman insists on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u144	Mr President! When attempts have been made in this Chamber to ask why the Minister of Labour himself did not even propose more employment appropriations, even though his own officials at the Ely Centre say there is a crying need, the previous Minister of Labour in the previous government always defended these active measures, the money for employment. Now we have a Minister of Labour who has not even presented. That's what this is all about, these things. In time, when Soini justified that this combination of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour was concluded, when there is also a lot of legal legislation in the field of employment, we now know what that means. There is a great deal to do with legislation, and in particular I would like you to take account of these fundamental rights of workers to agree differently. Mr President! The Leppä raised an important issue here, namely those speeches in the run-up to the last election, and where the government has received the mandate. I supported the cooperation agreement that Sipilä spoke about before the elections. I supported the idea of being forced to lead with fear and the world of the past. Now you're in charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u146	Mr President! The opposition now challenges the need to find an impact assessment. Now, for example, Mr Lehti said that Germany has 15 years of experience in making local agreements. I think it would be an impact assessment if we could start thinking about the local agreement on how we will implement it in a way that will increase employment, improve competitiveness. Now, for example, Mrs Tuppurainen says that you are now taking the power from the social partners, who are the best experts. I claim that there are even better experts, which means that the experts at local level are even better than the social partners. And very nice, if we could already find some ways in the middle of October that we could begin to deal with. Second thing. Mr Ihalainen said that you would wait for this package as a whole. We waited months and still want it. If we didn't make it to August 20th. day even the goals of any kind of perception, how many years we should still wait, how
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u147	Mr President! There are now several references here to German solutions. It is true that there this mini-job system probably brought more part-time work, but it also led to the fact that such things were born of working poor people who did not reach the open labour market. What was done in Germany when local crisis agreements were concluded — and I have spoken to Prime Minister Sipilä about this too — there the company, the company, the group, committed itself, during the crisis agreement, not to dismiss anyone. Where are these speeches here in Finland? Would something new be created in Finland, too, that when there are crisis solutions, the company commits itself not to dismiss anyone? There would be some balance, not just attacking workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, a few more comments on this subject and then Minister Lindström a little longer. Next up, Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u149	Mr President! It's an important thing. The newspaper pointed out that we should take into account this culture of reconciliation here in Finland, where it has been possible since January's engagement and democratic traditions for it. If the government now makes a decision by increasing local agreement, then I would like to ask Minister Lindström: What do you mean by that goal, the local agreement? Does that mean that we can agree locally on a collective agreement that is less than universally binding? What does that mean then for the social partners as negotiating parties negotiating a universally binding collective agreement? You're gonna wreck it. Well, at the same time, of course, there will be a lot of empty business apartments at 10 South Beach. It is no longer worthwhile for any employer to organise itself if the collective agreement itself does not have a contractual basis, but can be agreed locally. I would therefore like you to think that if local agreements were to be extended to include the current levels of a universally binding collective agreement, then
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u150	Mr President! It's always a two-way deal. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities was just visiting Germany and was widely consulted by employers, employees and researchers on what has been the secret of the German model. It has been precisely that both sides have had something to do with it: it has become a job guarantee if it has been adjusted to the labour costs involved. But, in fact, a broad evaluation shows that tax reform, pension reform, budget solutions, accelerated employment and simplified unemployment security are the key words that Germany has brought to that benefit. And this has also been accompanied by a euro policy which is favourable to the German market at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u151	Mr President! The common good is the best good. Just now, Prime Minister Sipilä rightly spoke about the importance of reaching an agreement and gave it his full support. Mr Ihalainen stressed the importance of trust and agreement in his group speech. In a certain way, this is a question of fate for Finland: can we agree now? But I am not quite sure that everyone in this Chamber wants an agreement to be reached. But that is an impressive way to achieve the best result. It is something of a surprise when you listen to what the opposition has to say about how to put up a fight against almost everything. In particular, when you listen to what the Greens say, if you object to all things, you will certainly get it right sometimes. Yesterday, Mr Viitanen raised the question of how much he looks forward to effective employment measures, innovation and measures that have a strong impact on growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u152	Mr President! Congressman Gustafsson, you accused the government of acting as an EK agent. If the government was sitting in an EK locker booth, didn't the SDP serve as the judge of the game and intervened before the players even got to the game field? Recognize this fact that you did not want the government to succeed in those negotiations, and that is why you played your part in the failure to reach a social agreement. You don't mind the country's economy going down. What's more important to you is that you bring in that opposition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u153	Mr President! We have talked about the importance of local reconciliation, and I personally see that it is the direction to which we should go, but in Germany and Sweden the right of co-determination for workers has also been strengthened. This employment guarantee has come, for example, from representatives of the boards of companies. Is the Finnish Government prepared to promote these means to gain confidence that local reconciliation would be fair? I believe that this would be a good thing for everyone, and here we come to the point that the fact that the government, at collective agreement level, is making mandatory legislation that prevents better agreements for workers is a strong restriction on the willingness of workers to rely on a strong bargaining position in lower-level employment contracts, when their rights were just limited in collective agreements. Quite a few companies are prepared to offer more about what the government has banned in the collective agreement. It is worth recalling this point: if we believe that productivity is a priority and wage moderation is also important, the big question is whether the government is putting these important objectives at risk by making these compulsory laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u154	Mr Rinne, then Mr Eestilä and finally Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u155	Mr President! Following these reforms, the German model meant that 1700000 people earn less than EUR 5 per hour and the number of part-time workers rose by 18 percentage points. It may have had an impact on the economy, but from the point of view of ordinary people, a very unhappy policy with a long option. Minister of Finance, I have now gone through these memos from the Ministry of Finance, and I find one memo on 29 September 2015, a six-page memo with one table and one sentence under it relating to the effects of taxation. It states that wage moderation slows down the development of tax revenue in the medium term. In the previous text, reference is made to a reduction in unit labour costs. Could there be a more detailed calculation of the tax impact than this one sentence?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u156	Mr President! From the point of view of the opposition, this is currently a historic, unprecedented mess. I'm a little surprised that if the government doesn't dictate, it's a mess. Perhaps you have opened up some of your own values with this sentence. I think the government should be commended for the fact that the government has openly presented its own line of action, which should be taken in Finland, because the government is responsible for debt, debt and capital liabilities, which I think amount to 17 billion in the budget. After all, when the government has done so, it has practically opened a call for tenders for all — opposition, Finnish citizens, all on-call docents, some midwives have already taken up this offer. In my opinion, if there is an open invitation to tender, then it would not be a great deal to blame for the person who made the basic offer, but rather to make his own offers so that the line that the government has put forward can be filled with cooperation and negotiation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u157	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u158	Mr President! If we start with what Mr Ihalainen said in his group speech, this way of blaming and blaming, then unfortunately there has been a lot of it in this debate. I've got a pretty thick skin, so it's nothing to do with snowing in the living room, but when people start to think I'm not the best friend of the workman anymore, I'm gonna pull a pea in the nose and firmly. I wouldn't be sitting in this government for a day if I didn't believe what we're doing here. This is where people try to get jobs for the worker and that unemployed person. That's what this is all about, isn't it? I find this shocking to hear, such as "EK's locker booth". I'm not in the SAK locker booth, not the EK locker booth, not even the Paper Union locker booth, even though I'm a member of the Paper Union. I'm in a government locker room, and they do these things together. I don't like everything, as I've said many times in public. Some of these solutions are such that if it were up to me to decide, I would probably do it another way. But now I'm on the government team. There's a lot of ex-ministers there. You know that you will have to defend things on which you fundamentally disagree. That's what I have to do, and that's what the Finns are going to do, and that's what they're going to do, so they're going to have to do. This is a good thing to remember. In his own speech, Mr Räsänen was the only one who pointed out what was at stake in this big picture. EUR 30 billion lacks export revenue to cover this public sector. It's missing. Tell us how you cover this. That's what the government's trying to do here. It is trying to break off debt, at the same time raising the economy, at the same time tackling unemployment. I am accused of not asking for more employment appropriations. I'd jump on top of me and bounce around and throw a bunch of things at you if that would help anything. We're going in these frames where we're going. I have told you that we are also doing structural change in the management of unemployment. This means that things have to be done differently when there is no money available indefinitely. I thank Mr Ihalainen for being constructive. Of course, he speaks as a group speaker at the mouth of his own group, but he has always been constructive. I did not think of criticizing his actions during the previous period, even though in his time unemployment worsened. You too had a goal of 100,000 jobs, and you did not achieve it. You couldn't help it. I'm sure you've done everything from the starting point, from your own values, which you can. Now it is up to this government to try. They always appeal to experts and to experts to say so. I'm sure each of us will find an expert who will support his thoughts. This is the path the government has chosen, and this is the way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u159	Mr President! Minister Lindström, the government has clearly found an expert in the EK to listen to when it comes to reducing the working conditions or wages of low-paid people. It is rather sad to read this government background note, which proposes changing the first day of illness so that the employee has to pay for it himself. It's the E.K. that's been listening to. I also understand that the Minister is sorry to hear the criticism of the opposition, but that is the role of the opposition in this parliamentary and democracy. But I am very surprised that the Minister of Labour is underestimating the importance of employment money. Yes, the truth is that, first of all, when the start-up money is out of the country and has been out since July, we will have hundreds or thousands of companies without being born in Finland. The same is true of pay subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u160	Mr President! As far as I'm concerned, it's a representative. Wave asked a good question here earlier that you, Prime Minister Sipilä, you have been strongly opposed to this sickness penalty before, and yet you have changed your mind here. Just as you said in Yle's interview as Business Manager that Finland can't compete with anything other than knowledge, we can't compete with labour costs, we have to trust that strong expertise will be built here. At the same time that this right-wing government in Finland has now decided and even declared it its political objective to lower the educational level of Finns and to make cuts of nearly 3 billion in education, education, knowledge and research during this term of government, it is making a policy that is quite the opposite in Sweden, and it is investing almost the same amount in these matters. I would like to ask the government which country, according to your assessment, will be more competitive in the future: the one cutting our children off from education and skills, or the country that invests in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u161	Mr President! Why is Sweden investing in education and health in a different way now than we are? Because they went 10 years ago to undertake the painful labour market reforms that we lack. Representative Niinistö said that there are no mandatory laws in Sweden. In fact, it has been done in the field of sickness, it has been made more supportive of unemployment benefit, in a way that we registered as a triangular, for example, during the last period. Yes, this is a step towards what Sweden set out to do 10 years ago. We've lost productivity, it's imploded, a wave of redundancies is coming if we don't do something. If we succeed now, in 10 years' time we will be able to invest in education, knowledge and health. I really hope that the majority in this House will support this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u162	Mr President! However, I find this accusation strange, which echoes from this opposition, and you will not even stop it after the Minister answers the questions that have been asked. I'm wondering about this. In addition, you will address some of the small details, you will make a point about the stick and you will not look at this big picture. Today's debate is just a small part of this whole, just as the Prime Minister said, and you are interfering with a single background note in which you have found an unpleasant word in relation to your own policy. We will listen to all the experts, of course, but now accept that we are doing our best and make your own choices if you do not like them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u163	Mr President! As far as these details are concerned, when a proposal came from employees, the Minister of Finance first announced that 4.2 was less than 5. It has now appeared from these background notes that suddenly, simsalabim, one-fourth more overnight, came to the effect that officials from the Ministry of Finance had estimated on the previous day. And then you accuse us here of interfering with the details. This doesn't make any sense. Let's go over this again. The employment effects are in the air, there were more effects in one night, the medical care is based on the extremely weak estimates of the EK, and these savings from the public sector would require almost 20,000 redundancies, which even the Treasury officials do not favour, and then there is this holiday pay mess. This is not just a matter of small details, which is why we need to get this to the committees. Mr President! I'll tell you something else. Mika Niikko gave a false witness about his neighbor. We have always offered the government a helping hand, Lauri Ihalainen, as a liquidator, in which case the agreement would have been reached, but you have not taken it up. Why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u164	Mr President! It is true, Mr Lindtman, that if this is two times the social pact You had time for all the opposition parties in the last government to make those decisions, but what legacy did you leave us? Undecided decisions. These decisions, which have not been made, are now costing a great deal of money, and each one of them has to pay the price. Now it would be important to find that common line. We cannot go back to the negotiations, as the Prime Minister said, but we should now have other proposals, and then we will be able to reject those unfortunate decisions if they can be replaced in another way. This is the central question we should be spending our time on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u165	We will continue the debate for about five to six minutes, and then, if the ministers concerned wish to reply, they will be given the floor, and then we will move on to the actual speeches, from time to time, where we will also have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u166	Mr President! There has been a valuable debate here about the social partners and how important it is to respect the negotiating parties and to reach an agreement in the negotiations. I personally agree, and at this point I support the Government's view that, in this situation, the government will support the social partners in order to reach agreement and move forward within a few weeks after the presentation on Monday. There has also been a debate here about holiday money. It is also a subject for negotiation, and I wonder when a lot of the left-wing view becomes that the lack of that holiday money is somehow a bad thing when around 200,000 people in Finland are going to get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u167	Mr President! I have always appreciated Minister Lindström, and I still do. He's honest and frank, and you're in a difficult situation. The President In these discussions, my soy has gone backwards and pushed you to defend these unreasonable proposals. But, Minister Lindström, the second largest government party in Parliament is not a driftwood. Your speech gave the impression that you have no influence, that you will not be able to influence decisions of your own accord. They just come from outside. What is essential is that employment in the domestic market decreases as purchasing power weakens. According to estimates by the VM, unemployment is increasing in the public sector because people have to be laid off. Dividends are growing, but there are no elements to guide them to growth or investment. On top of that, it is quite unclear whether 200,000 people will receive holiday money or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u168	Mr President! One way in which the government’s toolbox is to reduce sickness days and reduce their compensation. The Ministry of Finance has tried to make impact assessments, but it found it difficult to do so because, in particular, short sick leave is so poorly recorded. I myself spent four years working hard on, among other things, the cost of parenting and came across the same problem. In this country, no one knows how much pregnancy causes absenteeism. This has led to such an amusing situation that ministries, for example, claim that pregnancy does not cause absenteeism, which is, of course, absurd, and everyone who gave birth to it in this Chamber knows. That is why I ask: could the government in any way in future, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, define it and find out how many short sick leave there are in Finland and how many of them are held because of illness and pregnancy?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u169	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki here listed the numbers of worms, which is wrong. In view of the concrete measures that could lead companies, for example, to reinvest in companies, it must be pointed out here by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, that the suitability of the Estonian business tax model will be examined during the government's term of office. In my reply to my written question, the Minister states that it will be ready at the end of 2016. We're in a difficult situation. This is the kind of stimulant that's needed. Of course, I could bet that Arhinmäki, who needs concreteness, will not accept such proposals. Mr Stubb, I very much hope that such reforms of the tax system will be taken seriously. According to a recent study by the American Tax Forum, Estonia has the most competitive tax system in the OECD countries. As Mr Marin himself said correctly, so we must look a little at the neighbouring countries, what has been done right, and perhaps learn from it as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u170	Mr President! Perhaps it would be worthwhile, however, first of all for the government to answer the questions that have been raised here, to criticise and confuse its own actions before we start listing the new measures that will be taken. Those questions were: Employment in the domestic market will weaken as purchasing power weakens. Does it not reduce employment and not increase it? According to the VM’s own background papers, unemployment is increasing in the public sector through these solutions. Does it not increase unemployment and not reduce it? What concrete means does the government have to ensure that, as the dividend is increased, they are also geared towards investment and employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u171	Mr President! The lack of pay for the first day of sick leave is difficult to accept and does not treat citizens equally. There are many jobs where, for example, during the flu season, the risk of infection is much higher and, on the other hand, jobs where it is absolutely essential not to come to work to infect others when you are sick. Long - term sick people have to be away from work for a day because of their treatments. These are often very committed to their work, and if only it is possible with regard to the job description, they often also take care of the day of absence in one way or another themselves. Prime Minister, I appeal and ask: could the government turn the stones again?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u173	Mr President! The world drove past Finland, and we thought that with the old rules of the game, we could manage when the rest of the world works agilely. In this respect, Finland has no choice but to seek agility, even more agility than our competitors. I therefore propose that we collect all the best practices in our bags and go ahead with them. I can say that once you have followed this division of the trade union movement, when you have been given months of opportunity to participate but nothing comes out, somewhere you have to say that you have to whistle off the game. Then that decision must be taken by the government. This is a question of Finnish work, jobs and that we are able to employ. I wonder whether the opposition is not interested in the many unemployed people who want to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u174	Mr President! In fact, having listened to this debate here, it has become quite clear that it would really be worth considering now that this should be done more thoroughly at this stage in the work of the committee. It has been longed for this to increase employment, reduce costs, reduce the world's affairs, but when you ask where these effects are based, where they are assessed, it is then said that they have not yet been evaluated, but perhaps they will come along the way. It is now good to address this issue of holiday money first, when it has been said here that it is now bringing the holiday money to 200,000 people. When it's said here that it doesn't, what does it do? Are we here to increase costs or to reduce costs? Similarly, someone said that this will be 50,000 jobs, and on the other hand, it is said that if these measures are taken forward, this will increase unemployment. What's this doing? It would probably now be appropriate to take some sense at this stage and, even at this stage, to deal with this matter in depth in the parliamentary committees before we go on with anything irreversible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u175	Next, Mr Leppä, followed by representatives of the plant, Heinäluoma and Li Andersson and then Minister Lindström's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u176	Mr. Speaker! Not only is Finland in an economically paralyzed state, but we also have an investment depression. And why do we have an investment depression? Because companies are afraid to invest in Finland, and that is why we need a productivity leap, a competitiveness leap, so that we can also get the wheels running from the investment point of view. And once it has been called for, is there any way to guarantee that these measures will get these things moving, of course not, but no company will live by paying dividends alone, that is the end of the development work. We need development work in companies, investment, innovation. This is the only way to manage competitiveness from the point of view of companies. The others will pass anyway. This does not mean that dividends alone go to the good that this competitive leap will achieve. It will lead to investment and development and thus to jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u177	Mr President! The details have been underestimated here, but for a single person, the details can be very large. Take, for example, this first day’s salary. What do you think of a chronically ill worker who often has short sick leave? If you take, for example, the fourth most common cancer in men, bladder cancer, then the BCG flush used to prevent its renewal always means one, two days sick leave first once a week, later once a month. It is starting to be a very big thing for the individual and it encourages people to apply for disability pension, because otherwise this situation is not worth it financially for him.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u178	Mr President! After all, as the debate has moved forward and has also come to a larger economic policy debate, more representatives here have strongly condemned the debt recovery. — — — — I can see some acceptable looks there on the right side of the hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u183	Mr President! The opposition is interested in employment, and that is why we are concerned about this package. The main problem here is that when we hear the uncertainty on which this whole is based, it is precisely that these alleged positive effects on this package are those for which we have no definite information according to the minister's own background studies. This may well be the case, therefore, that this reduction in wages will come about, when purchasing power will be reduced, the sickness day will be fulfilled, when well-being at work will be reduced, and transfers to employers will be made, but the employment effects, i.e. these positive effects, will not materialise. The government is therefore taking a huge risk at the expense of public finances and employees here and also in doing so by means that undermines this trust between the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u184	And now Minister Lindström is on the scene for 3 minutes, and we will see if we can find the most necessary debate briefly. Now Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u185	Thank you, Mr President. — If we go first to this integration when some questions have been asked about it, the integration appropriations and their adequacy. Everyone knows that when this situation is alive all the time, we will respond to what we have estimated to be the number of these arrivals, and then this money is related to it. It is true that when these amounts increase, then it will have to be answered, and the answer will then be an amending budget if there is a need. And as far as the big picture is concerned, we have taken this issue of asylum very seriously, set up a ministerial group on immigration so that this information goes from one minister to another and we know every day what is going on in relation to these matters. On the integration side, for example, it is such an idea that when a person enters the country and is registered, the social security number and other information will be asked, and his/her skills will be mapped out as quickly as possible, and that these measures can be speeded up. We'll follow this up and we'll think about it all the time, let's say in advance what we're doing. Well, now we have the employment budget and the attitude towards it. I certainly do not underestimate the employment budget. They're the tools I'm supposed to be working on. But when they decrease, money is reduced from all sides, you have to think about how things are done in another way. This is not only my own thinking, it is also the thinking of the leaders of the centres. They're willing to do things in a new way. I am fully aware of the start-up and pay support situation in different parts of the country. It's in trouble. But now that it is a working method, we are not going to stop doing so now. And now that we've got this kind of positive momentum, I'd like to ask you — you'll probably agree when this well-being at work came up in this debate: The work life 2020 project continues. Isn't that a good thing? It is precisely the kind of thing where the different parts are all of the opinion that this should be continued. It's only been a little high-level over the last season. Now, in the next four years, it is actually meant to be taken to jobs, and that is the challenge of getting these things and good activities to be taken to small jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u186	Representative Salonen and representative Rossi and then representative Kankaanniemi, and yes, we will try to move on to the actual list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u187	Mr President! I understand that from that ministerial box, it may seem that thick leather is needed in relation to outsiders. But that thick leather is needed, first and foremost, there within the government — to defend the things that are important to you. Minister Lindström raised these very issues of working life, and the sickness penalty is anything but. I am absolutely sure that this is anything but what you believe, Minister Lindström. Minister Sipilä said that these questions about the content of working life will be answered in a package other than this one. But the very same results can be achieved with the nice and soft values of investing in well-being at work, addressing absenteeism, the problems behind it — that is, good management. We've got some research on this. And your own memo says about medical fines: "All in all, the biggest uncertainties in the calculation are related to the weakness of the knowledge base."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u188	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Plant. That is, of course, a very diverse view of this disease-day issue. I believe that when a wise government makes a proposal, and at the latest by Parliament, it will take note of the fact that if it is a person who has a need for treatment, which is repeated, it will not be subject to the same idea as that first day of illness comes forward. These are the details which, when the government makes its proposal and when Parliament finally deals with it, must, of course, be taken into account in the committee and in the parliamentary procedure. It is certainly not the intention of this proposal to punish anyone, not at all the fact that a person is sick. But we all know, too, that it has a certain effect on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u191	Mr President! I would like to continue on the basis of what Mr Plant and Mr Ross have said. First of all, it is a real problem for the government to intervene in cutting sickness allowances. It undermines the livelihood of sick people, reduces their health and well-being, and, as Minister Lindström said here, the government should make a real effort to improve well-being at work and the ability to work, because it brings real social savings. For this reason, we should also ask not only what this means for sick people, but also what it means if a nurse, a doctor or a kindergarten teacher came to work sick. What additional costs would it entail if people in the work community became ill, and what would it also mean for patient safety if a doctor or nurse came to work as a sick person for emergency care or elsewhere? That is why we have sectors where this cut in sickness allowance is not simply
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u192	To this stage of the debate, the last response, Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u193	Mr. Speaker! We have freedom of contract all the time, we have had it this summer and we have it today, and we probably still have a little time like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u194	And now we move on to the actual speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u195	Mr President! Today's communication debate on the competitiveness of our country has been extensive and will certainly continue for years and years. This will also lead to the wide and complex Mr President! Since we hope that confrontation will now be eradicated in this kingdom, I would like to start by giving some positive feedback to the social partners as well. For example, SAK has raised the issue of stronger employee involvement and empowerment in corporate governance if and when local agreement is progressing. I can also fully sign up to the requirement that, during the crisis, companies are required to exercise extreme restraint in the remuneration and dividends of senior management. We all sign the need to tackle the problem of the shadow economy, and the government has made progress. I would, however, like to see that, when there is so much concern about the development of purchasing power, account should be taken above all of the fact that the unemployed should be given purchasing power, i.e. jobs. Indeed, in today's debate, I would have missed these specific efforts by the opposition to create new jobs to tackle unemployment. For its part, the government can be thanked for the substantial improvement in the security of workers' change and for the improvement of the position of young women in the labour market through the reform of family leave. These positive issues have been ignored in a fully public debate. Unfortunately, the role of women in the political debate in itself is always little in the role of mop. When political decisions become difficult, the issue of women is raised to the forefront of debates. This has happened now and reforms have been proposed to improve cost competitiveness. However, it seems that rarely have women’s affairs progressed in the same way. For example, equal pay is still a dream for the time being, even though the SDP has spoken about it in central places in Finland as well as in the SAK. However, over the years, the improvement of the labour market position of women has not really reached the forefront of the SDP. Mr President! In order to improve cost competitiveness, it is essential to promote local reconciliation, to dismantle barriers to employment and to dismantle standards for entrepreneurship. In addition to this, it is clear that we need structural reforms, job reduction, social welfare reform, unemployment security reform and so on. The Government Programme quite rightly states that the government will initiate the necessary reforms of working time legislation and other labour law, which will support the promotion of local reconciliation. It is good to remember that there is already a great deal of local agreement, but more is needed, and that increase would be very important in terms of cost-competitiveness. The direction towards local reconciliation is reasonable, even from the point of view that local issues and needs are best known. Local agreement represents the necessary flexibility, which is also important here as a whole in securing existing jobs and also in ensuring that employees also commit themselves to the company and to doing work. Mr President! When jobs are created, it is of course necessary to promote entrepreneurship and the potential of entrepreneurs to create jobs. From this point of view, I personally attach great importance to the fact that entrepreneurs have taken a very positive view of the Government's competitiveness package. I personally believe that the government's plans for improving competitiveness are important when they are implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u196	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the positive and constructive aspects of the communication. Indeed, there are a lot of them, even if it could be deduced from what the opposition has said. The government has set itself the main objective of halting debt. Measures to strengthen cost-competitiveness are a good tool for achieving this objective. At the same time, companies will be better placed to survive in international markets and better conditions for hiring employees. This in turn contributes to the competitiveness and exports of our country and to the growth of employment. Government measures will also promote the development of new export products. There is potential for development, especially in educational exports, which are still in the infancy of Finland. Many people are surprised that creative sectors are the third largest source of employment in the EU. Creative industries, such as design, music, gaming, will be a growing employer in Finland in the near future. Every citizen benefits from strengthening the cost competitiveness of Finnish agriculture and primary production. I believe that clean Finnish food and water supplies will be an important and significant export asset. It should be noted that food production and related business already employ a considerable number of people. The sanctions against Russia have considerably weakened the sales of our agricultural products, so new markets need to be found. In addition, the compensation received by Finnish agriculture from the EU for the decline in trade in Russia was modest, such as the EU's agricultural subsidies in comparison with other Member States. For all of this, it is important that we adhere to our strong export power — pure and free from genetic modification. In order to sell Finnish products and services, they must be marketed efficiently on the international market. The challenge in Finland's exports is the lack of efficient marketmen. Strengthening cost competitiveness alone will not solve this problem alone, so I hope that the government will take this challenge vigorously. Mr President! As an exemplary success story, I mention my region, Vakka-Suomen. There are several reasonably well-performing companies: Mercedes are produced there, and Vakka-Suomi is also based in Vahterus, a successful export company that exports its heat transfer products worldwide. Vahterus employs 230 workers and women. In addition to Vakka-Suomi, in Varsinais-Suomi, good news is produced by Turku Shipyard, which has recently received new orders. There is also Muotikuu, a clothing company that employs Finns very extensively, namely the seamstresses sew these clothes in Turku. I have to ask you, why have these companies been doing so well? That information would be very important. Government competitiveness measures will create better conditions for the emergence of similar success stories. The Government has taken real steps to improve Finland's exports and employment. I very much hope that an agreement will be reached with the social partners. In this case, both employees and entrepreneurs can join forces in promoting Finland’s cause. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u197	Madam President! It is good to begin by supporting the motion made by Mr Ihalainen to send a communication to committee and his conditional motion of censure. I would also like to thank Mr Ihainen for his good and constructive speech. It might even be said that the speech was state-of-the-art. Finland has traditionally been well placed in competitiveness measurements. Our strengths have been and remain, among other things, good education and skills, strong innovation capacity, a stable society and low levels of corruption. These things have been valued for a long time, but unfortunately the government has its policies and policies to undermine both our educational level, our skills and a stable Finnish culture of consensus and agreement. Working together has been replaced by the erosion of mutual trust, forced laws based on inadequate preparation and fear management. In turn, the strengthening and renewal of knowledge has been replaced by cuts and the erosion of our traditional strengths. The two main problems of the Finnish economy are too slow growth and unemployment. I am sure that we will all share this assessment, although there are other factors. Weak growth and increased unemployment are the result not only of the investment and demand depression that followed the financial and euro crisis, to which the government also referred today, but also of the change in our economic structure, namely that our industry has not been able to export products to the world in such an economic situation, to meet the demand that still exists. We therefore need measures to support domestic demand and purchasing power, mobilise investment and speed up the restructuring and reform of our business structure and export sector. Unfortunately, however, the government has come to a different conclusion in its analysis of economic problems and in its conclusions to this end. That is why it is making a miserable economic policy that will not work, but will lead to weaker growth and rising unemployment. The government relies on percentages, but it does not bother to justify them or the figures it uses or expose them to open and critical scrutiny. The hard and incorrectly targeted cuts proposed by the government in terms of people's livelihood, purchasing power, services and, above all, education and skills are detrimental to growth and renewal. These cuts will weaken our competitiveness and our economy in a situation where reform, strengthening skills and supporting creativity are more important than in the past. The government's labour market package – it is called the competitiveness package here, but I think it is perhaps fairer and more honest to talk about the labour market package – has many elements that need to be addressed, many points that every reasonable person would question and criticise. These include sickness fines, cuts in wages and the weakening of the purchasing power of ordinary workers. However, I would like to highlight the point in the package which, in my view, is too little for a critical assessment in this Chamber. This is a reduction of 1.72 percentage points in the social security contributions of private employers proposed by the government. This is a very significant transfer of income for private employers, and this costs the state EUR 847 million each year, i.e. every year. The government believes that this will create tens of thousands of new jobs. However, a significant reduction in the cost of employers is not a new invention. The previous governments have also offered the same means of increasing employment and improving the economic situation and competitiveness. In 2010, the Kela levy was abolished from employers and in 2014 the corporate tax paid by companies was reduced by 4.5 percentage points. Both changes have cost the state almost a billion dollars each year. With the reduction in the social security contribution now proposed, we are already talking about annual losses of some EUR 2.5 billion to public finances. At this stage, it is important to ask whether these measures have worked, whether they have worked or whether only billions of loopholes have been made with the reduction in this social security contribution. At least now, in this bad economic climate, current transfers to large companies and employers have not significantly activated them to invest or recruit more workers. On the other hand, the amount of dividends paid out by companies has remained at a high level, even accelerated. Thus, companies have paid out money and have not used it for renewal. Even the cautious conclusion is that this policy has not been particularly impressive given how much it has cost. Would it be worth looking for concrete effects at long last, rather than the dynamic effects that have been talked about? What if we had spent or spent 2.5 billion on investments every year? With this money, which we have now given away, we would certainly have had the right effects, not just the dynamic effects. This investment-driven policy would create new jobs, support exports and the renewal of our business structure, safeguard and create prosperity, support growth and thus reverse our debt ratio in the long term, in other words, improve our competitiveness. There are also alternatives to economic policy if we want to see them and seize them. I hope that this speech will also be heard from the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u198	Mr President! I would like to start by supporting the representative. It's the spirit of Niinistö. The Sipilä government has been saying since last spring that there is no alternative. The services must be cut and people's salaries reduced. However, the stubborn government had to give up cuts in Sunday allowances and overtime under public pressure. This pressure was exerted by ordinary workers, who were forced by the government to stand up for their road fluids from the hands of the government. Although the government has claimed that there are no alternatives, it itself had to back down its desire to cut salaries, especially in the low- and medium-paid women's sectors. If the government had got its way, the sufferers would have been local nurses, kindergarten teachers, waitresses, and shopkeepers, for example. Workers working shift jobs in male-dominated sectors, such as policemen and firefighters, would also have been subject to government coercion. In the government's proposal, there are still major problems in terms of competitiveness, the worst of which is the lack of pay for the first sick day. It leads to coming to work sick when a low - waged person cannot afford to be out of work. There is also a problem with the dictation of wages and working life, even if mandatory legislation is fixed-term. If two midwives get the Prime Minister to cancel the overtime and Sunday supplements, how many cold midwives are needed to cancel the first unpaid sick day? How many heavy-duty cooks, cleaners or local nurses are needed to tell the government that older ones are inevitably absent for one day, that it is the only way to survive at work, to last a little longer before falling into retirement, which is not enough because living is too expensive and more expensive when the government next threatens to cut the housing allowance for pensioners by EUR 60 per month? Last spring the government program was written in Finland so that three men listened to 13 men as their experts. Yes, it would be worthwhile to widen the scope, number and gender of experts, especially when matters have not yet been decided, but are only being considered. Now the whole of Finland is concerned about the competence and judgment of the government. The magician's hat is being pulled out of performances that no one knows why they're still exposed. The government's withdrawal from cutting off Sunday and overtime supplements confirms that the government should not interfere with wage settlements but leave them to employees and employers to reconcile. However, when the government withdrew the cuts in Sunday and overtime allowances, it announced that it had decided that everyone's holiday money would now be cut by 30%. Public sector holidays and day-to-day leave will be reduced and the first sick leave will be made unpaid. Those who do heavy, consuming work and yet continue to chastise at work even when they are older will continue to be disciplined. When the first day of illness becomes unpaid, these people will no longer be able to cope in working life. Government politics are hard, cold and unreal. It is also worth listening to midwives, nurses and cleaners in advance, not later. Why are these people being forced into demonstrations? Should not the government and labour law be on the weaker side? The basic right-wing government cannot be praised for its knowledge of working life. Prime Minister Sipilä was surprised that overtime and Sunday allowances are an integral part of pay in a wide range of areas. Now Prime Minister Sipilä confessed that he did not know that the holiday money does not apply to all employees. From the government's presentations, the Precariat shines with her absence. The government has not made a single proposal to improve the position of precarious workers, temporary workers and small entrepreneurs, even though the fastest growing number of workers are the self-employed. The Prime Minister's message has been that more must be done in Finland with less. For some reason, this requirement applies only to low incomes. The government, which repeats the rhetoric of unavailability, claims that the opposition has no alternative. That is not true. The Greens have presented both an alternative government programme and our alternative economic guidelines, and our alternative budget will be ready in the next few days. The Prime Minister’s speech on competitiveness did not say a word about knowledge, education or research. However, they would be the way up from the recession and the key to improving productivity. The government, on the other hand, has taken on board the goal of calculating the level of competence of citizens. The government can be thanked for one thing: it has today published the background notes on which it bases its decision-making. They show that the government has listened selectively to the experts. The background notes also show that there would have been alternatives,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u199	Madam President! First of all, thank the Prime Minister for opening the doors to the Summer Bank and thereby allowing the social partners to continue to negotiate. Of course, it must be said that there must be room for change in the government, but it must be said that the government and the Prime Minister. Sipilä has been able to change its own views and things have moved in a more correct direction. But the renovation's still rough. It is now important for the government to weigh among itself the effects of this tough day, even though Mr Rossi was trying to say a little colorfully that someone here is defending the voice of a one-day salary loss. Don't you have any solidarity with the unemployed? These things don't have a common dimension at all. This is about the single mother who works at the cashier's store and who has 25 hours a week or 10 hours a week. When taken away one day, it means that this person loses more than 50 percent of his weekly earnings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u202	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Please note that when Mrs Myllykoski speaks that she has been involved in the negotiations, she speaks the truth, a left-wing MP in this case. The Government is quite right that Finland should strengthen its competitiveness. Of course, the government's proposals are difficult and have come up many, many times today because they hit other sectors harder than others. But it is gratifying to see that the planned cuts in Sunday and overtime are now cancelled by legislation. A better option, just as the government is now proposing, and in particular a fairer solution is to cut holiday money. For small entrepreneurs and other entrepreneurs who do not pay for this now, it may mean a new cost, even though the Prime Minister, for example, said that it is possible to avoid it if it causes distress. You have to be able to make it easier then.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u203	Madam President! Finland is facing a new one. Finland is facing reform. I'm sure we can't continue on the modern road. In 2003, Germany launched a work reform. A reform launched by the Social Democrats and completed by the Christian Democrats. Change has taken 12 years. The change involved all the major players in society. At first the trade union movement opposed the change, and at the end it thanked the change. First, unemployment grew, eventually decreased. First the wages were springing, then the wages were rising. The unemployment rate in Germany is now around 6.5%, in some regions less than 2%. Finland is now in the same situation as Germany in 2003. Unemployment is getting worse and rigid structures prevent change and growth and the emergence of new industries. Madam President! In this rapidly changing world, a small country needs to increase agility and flexibility. This means a change at the level of society as a whole, in particular a change in the culture of lobby organisations. On both sides of the table, we need to look for new ways of promoting job creation and improving competitiveness. Finland’s economy has deteriorated significantly in recent years. Export revenues are around 30 billion less than public sector expenditure would require. Mr President! It is good that the government has taken courageous action and wants to reform structures and practices. The two previous governments of Finland have responded to the change in the international and domestic fast operating environment mainly by taking debt. All necessary structural reforms were not made, except for the reform of the police administration. The economy has kept the purchasing power of the domestic market moderate, but it was also built on the debt, which is now due. So now we are dealing with debt management costs, the lack of innovation, the relocation of business investments abroad and mass unemployment. We are in a situation where Finnish products do not sell in the world at the same pace as before, domestic purchasing power is dwindling and significant redundancies are expected in the trade sector. The current government has set out to seek new ways of achieving this and to improve cost competitiveness. The effort is right and good and should be encouraged by everyone in this Chamber. However, there are a number of points in the government's choice of means that should be re-evaluated. The government regards almost exclusively as an obstacle to competitiveness as an obstacle to the excessive cost of the labour force, so the main focus of the government's efforts is to cut wages, then wage moderation and a zero-line wage increase for several years, and to improve the operating conditions of companies and reduce costs. It should be noted, therefore, that one of the main strategic errors in the Government's policies is that almost all of the proposed changes lead to a decline in domestic purchasing power, so if the government were wise now, it would listen to the comments of this left-hand side in this area and would be prepared to correct some of the proposals. It is remarkable, Madam President, that Finland has moved to a subsidiary economy. More and more companies operating in Finland have transferred to foreign ownership. The financial gain generated here will no longer remain in Finland, but will go to international investor groups. The Government has not proposed any way to ensure that the financial relief now provided to companies remains in Finland, that they are used for investments in Finland and for the recruitment of Finnish workers. There is now a risk that the entire benefit that is channelled into companies will end up in the income pocket of a foreign owner. This inconceivable derailment of transversal rail traffic for only 15 million people, especially in areas where there is growth in which industry, work, housing — now 15 million stars are being put on these tracks. Infra, Mr President, the infrastructure that has been built to last a hundred years is put on hold. Mr President! My time has passed. I'll get back to you later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u204	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Christian Democratic Parliament Group and the previous speaker, Mr Laukka, for their excellent constructive and good attitude towards and evaluation of the government's efforts to strengthen cost-competitiveness. In fact, in the opposition itself, a few times during different parliamentary periods, it has to be said that there is rarely such a tense and far-fetched view in opposition groups over government-opposition limits. Of course, with reference to the outcome of this vote, this is what will happen. Mr President! This Government communication is a very important document. It is not complete, but the government has defined one part of its kind of trio. Of course, this improvement in competitiveness of 5% is important for all of us. As far as the previous speech, Mr Laukkanen, is concerned, when he assesses whether this competitiveness benefit will remain in Finland, it must be said that the measures, i.e. the five different measures in the government's proposal — i.e. the hippies, helatorstai, the pay for sick leave, the issue of annual leave, the holiday allowance and the employer's social security contribution — constitute a whole that radiates into society as a whole. For example, within the framework of the Hospital District of North Savo, we calculated what this would mean if these government proposals were implemented. This would correspond in its entirety to such a saving of between EUR 8 and 9 million for the costs of the entire hospital district. We are in the process of drawing up next year's budget, and there are about 6 million of those that still need to be organised in order to achieve the right balance with the 1% increase that is being taken forward. In this whole holiday money is very similar to the same size, 8.8 million was that exact amount. I therefore believe, Mr President, that these measures, which reduce this cost structure of ours, are also reflected in all these actors. In this case, we are talking about the hospital district, 4200, a little bit over, an employee, and it is these measures that will be able to ensure that these jobs continue to be maintained better, because it is cheaper to maintain them in order to be able to care for the sick. Otherwise, we are easily on the road to reducing the number of people. And this, Mr Laukkanen, is the thing that can be seen not only in our companies, but also in our municipalities, for example, in the public sector, among all the actors involved. This means that more is being done to safeguard this work and not to reduce it, as the opposition has wanted to say, on the whole, that this left-wing opposition, including the Greens, is undermining employment. In practice, the situation is exactly the opposite. This is precisely the right line for the government, and that is why I warmly support it. Representative Heinäluoma in that debut earlier stated that the government parties whether or not he used the term 'forced' to support this. For God's sake, they won't make me do this. On the contrary, in the Government Party we have gone over this matter in advance and the Government is implementing the policies agreed and decided by the parliamentary groups. This is how it goes. We parliamentarians must also remember, in fact, that if in our system the power belongs to the people, then it is true that the government enjoys the confidence of the Parliament and not the other way around. That is why it has been extremely important, which I think has been very touching this season, that these three largest parliamentary groups, the centre, the National Coalition Party, the Finns of Finland...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u207	Madam President! According to today's report, we are in a situation where the competitiveness of Finland's long-term economy to measure growth conditions is at its worst in the 21st century. Our main weaknesses are, according to the report, tight taxation, rigid labour markets and the small size of the domestic market. We are able to influence the first two of these. The conditions for economic growth have deteriorated significantly and cost competitiveness compared to our competitors is weak. The measures now under discussion represent an important step in the direction of allowing employment to grow. Jobs are created in companies. Action must therefore be taken to encourage companies to grow and employ. The reforms now being proposed aim to ensure that more Finns have jobs. Without sufficiently high employment and successful businesses, we will not have the tax revenue needed to pay for services and income transfers. Mr President! It is good that the government is determined to stick to its objectives, but is prepared to be flexible about the means. The removal of Sunday and overtime allowances would have unduly disciplined the female-dominated working sectors. In these areas, these increases represent a significant part of the salary. Maybe there'll be something to fix in the future too. The government's decision to compensate for the costs of parenting is the right step to promote equal working life and will promote the labour market position of women and ease the burden on entrepreneurs in women-dominated sectors. However, we have a large number of highly educated women for whom the labour market does not currently open up after long family leave. There is still work to be done to promote equal work, so that in all areas the euro for women is equal to the euro for men. Mr President! The government is now using the means it has. No one wants to undermine the position of important public workers, such as kindergarten teachers, police officers or those working in the care sector, under conditions. However, the public sector cannot finance itself. That is why we need to find ways of promoting growth and employment in the private sector. Now it is the social partners who have the ball to find more balanced ways of doing this. According to its own words, the government is prepared to discuss the means, but the objectives are not compromised. I am sure that both employees and employers are willing to play their part in Finland's future well-being. Hopefully, there will still be an agreement at the level of the organisation. I hope that an equal solution will also be found in the negotiations between the unions as regards the qualifying days for sick leave. Madam President! Another important issue is the dismantling of barriers to employment. Legislation must be involved in the present time. Work must always be profitable, and taxation should encourage it. It is now time to carry out other labour market reforms. An example of this is the reduction in the duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit. We should not support unemployment but the employment of the unemployed. It is the most sustainable solution in terms of human and national finances, because work is the best social security. Mr President! The government has gone a long way towards reform. Reforms must continue and the dismantling of standards must be an important part of facilitating the conditions for entrepreneurship. I also hope that the unions will do everything in their power to achieve a moderate wage settlement. We now need all the means to boost employment and, therefore, Finland's economy. Finally, I would like to say that the fact that the measures taken so far have failed to turn employment into growth and the economy into growth does not mean that action should not be taken now. On the contrary, we must try harder now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u208	Madam President! The representatives of the government parties have been stressing here since the comics that we have to do something, we cannot do it, we have to do something. Mr Jaskari even said quite carelessly that we should look after what was done afterwards. This is kind of dangerous talk. The important thing is that when you do, you do the right things, not the wolf and the second. The recession in Europe is the longest and most persistent one known to modern economic history. It goes on for seven years. Europe's right-wing liberal economic discipline and the cut-off line have made it worse. Growth is rising, debt is rising, unemployment is rising. In five years, 10 million more unemployed people have become unemployed. One in four Europeans is at risk of poverty and exclusion. The operating line has killed the demand, which has killed the investment. If the government wanted to learn something from the last years of Europe, the government programme would certainly not look like this. Thus, Finland’s misery is not entirely self-made, as the government always says. Finland exports 55% of its exports to EU countries, so it is no wonder that Finland is also in a deep recession. The current recession is deeper than the recession of the early 1990s in terms of national products. I repeat, worse than the recession in the early '90s. When I say this fact, people do not believe their ears. The recession is not yet visible on the streets, open unemployment has not yet exceeded half a million. Fortunately and for the time being. In addition to the recession in Europe, the government should also learn from the previous recession in Finland. Unemployment should not be allowed to rise by more than 10%, because unemployment is burning rapidly but falling very slowly, as I said here last Friday. This phenomenon is called hysteresis in economics. And right now, unemployment is rising rapidly to that 10%. In this situation, it is irresponsible not to increase the budget for employment. Pay support, start-up money decisions have not been distributed in many localities for several months because the money is out. Another 50 million will be cut from employment next year, including the cancellation of the Youth Guarantee. There is an employment crisis, but the government does not have a crisis awareness here, and it is precisely the cycle that Mr Sipilä feared in his speech — endless cuts. Mr President! The government's economic objectives are confusing and contradictory. The first step was to achieve a productivity leap until it became apparent that the extension of working time would actually reduce productivity. Then we talked about unit labour costs until it became apparent that Finland’s wage level was lower than in Sweden and Germany. We have now found such a general, sufficiently vague improvement in competitiveness, and the figures are still thrown to the accuracy of the hundredths of aclimbs. It shames every responsible economist, but apparently not the Ministry of Finance. What's really going on? Representative After a small amount of pressure, the Vartiainen’s real goal in television was to change the relationship between work and capital. Behind all this patriotic hardness is this real purpose. Work is taken, capital is given. Of course, it fits into this mess that Prime Minister Sipilä is scaring the public by the fact that Finland is being watched over by the EU Commission because of an excessive deficit, while the government is going to increase the deficit by giving the economy more taxpayers' money, another EUR 850 million, and then employees' wage cuts will become equally bad and unemployment will naturally further increase the deficit. So the government's solution is not a new one or a bold transfer of income from employees to employers. It is not surprising that this is the way a right-wing government always works around the world, and that is what the current recession in Europe in 2010 started when taxpayers' money was confiscated to save European banks. Finland is still suffering from the financial crisis, which has turned into a sovereign crisis, a cutting crisis, and is now turning into an employment crisis. It is also not surprising that the right-wing government is pushing for big business but does not understand the daily lives of small entrepreneurs. After all, this was evident when Prime Minister Sipilä confessed yesterday that he did not think of a holiday allowance cut for small entrepreneurs. The last few years show that your prescriptions, which take work from work and give capital, do not work. The big problem of competitiveness, as I said yesterday here, is the problem of the knowledge-based economy. Innovation does not turn into investment. The smart state invests in the production structure of society, its renewal, and helps companies grow from small to large, from county to world champion. But the government works in the county series. This is crystallized by many other broken promises, perhaps the most pathetic, at the end of the day, Madam President: opposition leader Sipilä promised a multi-billion-dollar growth fund to help the internationalisation of new technologies, which now shines with its absence from the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u209	Madam President! To begin with, we have a conflicting government. The Government is constantly talking about improving competitiveness, but it is cutting Finland’s most important competitiveness factors, such as education, research and innovation, that will actually bring Finland up. As I said earlier today and told Parliament, many Members of Parliament took part in last month's economic defence course and there a representative of the government party sitting there — not at the moment but in general — in the ranks of the government asked the question, which was as follows: did Nokia rise due to low labour costs or high-quality products, products that could compete on the world market? We know that the answer is this latter. Finland's effective competitiveness is based on the quality of products and services and not on the price of work. But what is the government doing? Cut out education and research, i.e. future growth. Since the beginning of the period, the Government has justified its actions with no alternative. Although this climate of optimization has been built for a very long time, we discovered two days ago on Monday that the government withdrew its plan to cut Sunday and overtime payments, which would have significantly reduced the salaries of nurses and firefighters, among other things. Yesterday and today, in this Chamber and since spring, in the media and in the messages of the citizens, it has become clear that there are actually alternatives, and that is what the government will, hopefully, really look into and consider for the future of Finland. So there is still much to be improved in the government proposal. Vaccination, for example, is inefficient and cost-effective in the long term. It is clear that Finland needs to be reformed in order to make Finland grow. The government has a desire to improve things, but unfortunately not so much skill. Decisions are made on very weak grounds without proper background work. The holiday allowance measure is a good example of this: we want to reduce the costs of companies, but soon after the decision has been announced, we will find that the new mandatory proposal will also bring more than 200,000 people into the holiday money, which is to say, occasionally others will receive more money when they are cut off from others. We will remember Prime Minister Sipilä's comments on impact assessments a few months ago. In June, the Prime Minister said to the professors who were asking questions about gender equality reports that the first step would be to reform and then assess the impact. This is like wanting to get in a car, for example. We'd go to Jyväskylä, and we'd drive 300 kilometers in a random direction. It would only be after driving 300 kilometres in a direction that we would see if we were in Jyväskylä. This type of decision-making certainly does not inspire confidence. Madam President! In a competitive dialogue with the means, we need to be vigilant. Reducing the purchasing power of workers is a demand-reducing measure. Lowering the purchasing power of households would also have a direct impact on the incomes of companies and their employment potential. I believe that the long zero wage increases that the social partners are currently discussing are to be welcomed in this situation. In these cases, the cost level of companies would be reduced in real terms and the purchasing power of households would not suffer major damage. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Finally, let us think once again about the long-term competitiveness factors. An equal social system, good early childhood education, high-quality higher education, high-quality research, all these are vital to our competitiveness. What's the government doing? Like I said before, these are the ones it cuts from. This is a very short-sighted policy that jeopardises Finland's future growth and social equality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u210	Madam President! I would like to start by saying that I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Arhinmäki. The Government's price competitiveness package is about both a significant reduction in wages and a significant transfer of income to employers without any guarantee that these measures will indeed improve employment. It is indeed a question of changing the relationship between labour and capital. Moreover, this is being done by means which restrict freedom of agreement and which may conflict with the Constitution and international agreements. To put forward such drastic measures requires at least a strong argument and a well-prepared approach. Unfortunately, the government has rather shown how the proposals have been made with inadequate information. First, there was the question of a productivity leap through an extension of working time. When it became clear that extending working time did not improve productivity, the concept of price competitiveness changed. After that, attempts were made to pre-empt the social pact by setting an objective which made the negotiation completely unnecessary to the other party in the negotiations. For this reason, when the negotiations did not turn out to be successful, the government presented its own coercive measures, including cuts in Sunday and overtime pay. Then an interview with midwives on TV led the Prime Minister to change these cuts to holiday money, but not knowing that not all employees are currently receiving holiday money. Mr President, this is certainly a vagulation. The Government has justified its target of 5% price competitiveness by claiming that Finland’s price competitiveness is lagging behind the key competitors. However, when comparing the sectoral figures of the manufacturing industry, it is clear that there is no significant price competitiveness gap between Sweden and Germany in Finland. This approach therefore does not seem to be correct. Mr President! However, the price competitiveness leap certainly affects the purchasing power of employees, well-being at work and income transfers. A 30% cut in holiday money reduces purchasing power and reduces tax revenue by around EUR 600 million per year. Shortening the holidays and the date of sickness will reduce the maintenance and well-being at work. The reduction in the employer's social security contribution, on the other hand, brings a gap of around EUR 850 million in the financing of social security. This huge transfer to employers is justified by the fact that as many as 50,000 new jobs will be created. The only problem with these dynamic effects is that they do not seem to be realised — not in connection with the deduction of the employers' Kela contribution, not in connection with the reduction of the corporation tax, nor in connection with an extreme wage settlement. Uncertainty about the impact on employment is also reflected in the background notes of the VM, which say that there is a significant divergence in the views of experts. According to the survey, the employment impact of the private sector is likely to be several tens of thousands. That's a very weak word for such drastic measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u211	Madam President! In order to halt Finland’s indebtedness and to achieve growth in Finland’s economy, a number of measures are needed. There are three large entities in the Government’s range of means, which are hoped to result in better economic development and the securing of the foundation and services of Finland’s welfare society. These three sets are the cost-competitive measures now under discussion, then the expenditure adjustment measures discussed yesterday and the key projects supporting growth. In the previous speech, Mr Andersson questioned Finland's price competitiveness and suggested that it was better than in Sweden or Germany, but this is hard to believe, because Finland's exports to these two countries do not do the same, and that in real life tells us that our products are not sufficiently commercialised and we do not have the necessary competitiveness that needs to be put in order. The government has acted decisively in this regard. The opposition has said here that we should wait and watch and not make any strong decisions, and now that there have been many speeches here, no concrete proposal has unfortunately come from the opposition, nothing. They are good words in themselves, such as 'knowledge' and 'education' and 'export' and so on, but in what way will it be made more competitive here? Only 'no' has been a message for all the cuts and now for all the other structural measures 'no'. In this respect, I would have liked these homeworks to have been done better. The government and the Prime Minister have also been long - suffering. In order to achieve a labour market solution, a fourth company is now in the process of reaching a social agreement, and, as we have heard before, the government does not have these issues of authority, provided that we stick to the objective of improving competitiveness by 5 percentage points and then improving competitiveness by a total of 15 per cent, but we are talking about a 5 per cent leap in this area. In this respect, it is desirable that the social partners make use of this opportunity to bring to the table their own measurable proposals that will achieve the same result, and now we are weighing up the effectiveness of our system. When we still have a few weeks, that is what needs to be done. The government can't wait. If the government had not made any proposals, the opposition would say why the government is not doing anything, why you are doing nothing when there is no economic growth, unemployment is getting worse and we have a drop in every way. So it was better for the government to be on the move quickly. Even that criticism cannot be understood when it is said that the government changed its position on these Sunday allowances, on overtime payments. That is precisely how we now have an exceptionally sensitive Prime Minister and a government that listens to public opinion: we are prepared to look at the proposals if we have better proposals. But I understand that when there has been no other criticism, this too has now been criticised, that when you have listened to the citizens, that too is wrong. So it's a misfire if you can tell me these fire department terms. As I said, this package is one, but these spending adjustment measures, in which we have to make difficult decisions, are another big package, curbing the growth of public spending, and of course there are also these structural reforms, such as the social solution, which must finally be completed in this period, reducing the duties and obligations of the municipalities, reducing red tape and so on. And then there are these key projects, which are in many respects a new political culture. The change money that makes this machine more efficient and effective is important in this as a whole. Investment in growth, EUR 1.6 billion, of which EUR 600 million will be spent on improving the infrastructure and thereby building the conditions for growth, and many other reforms. So we should look at this as a whole, and in this sense we should hope that tomorrow, at the latest, as the budget debate continues, it will be a little longer than that, at least a little more than the guidelines we are going to do and what we are going to accept now that there has been such a 'no' movement. The opposition is currently, as you can say in the light of history, an extraordinary non-movement positioned in the foxholes, and I hope that somehow you will be able to dig out of that foxhole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u212	I give two answers: Mrs Aalto and Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u213	Madam President! Mr Rantakangas' speech partly went to the humor side, partly to the tragicity side. I do not know whether you listened yesterday, Mr Rantakangas, to what was said in the group speeches, for example, regarding the Greens. We told them that next year's tax laws will be accepted as such. With regard to structural reforms, we agree with you; we support them. Our main criticism was in the emphasis and number of these cuts. We set out the framework for the two parliamentary term in which we would go on doing so. With regard to the training cuts, we explained how they could be replaced. We are trying to ask Prime Minister Sipilä about four times whether you will accept our audience to discuss how this could be done in another way. I do not know how I should speak, what language I should speak, that it will reach the ears of Mrs Rantakangas. The second point that has been criticised is that, in general, political decision-making is at its best when it is well prepared, and if it is prepared in a sloppy manner, we will see,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u214	Mr Andersson, and then Mr Rantakangas, then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u215	Mr President! The concept of price competitiveness and competitiveness is clearly confused in its own speech. In other words, what the opposition has denied is this argument that Finland's competitiveness problems are due to our level of pay, because the results of the research do not support such a claim when compared to Germany or Sweden, for example. We have not denied that Finland does not have competitiveness problems, but we see that the competitiveness problems we have are due to the fact that the demand for our exports has fallen partly due to Russian sanctions, but above all to the recession in Europe and to the problems experienced by our industrial restructuring, Nokia and also the forestry industry. The options that we have put forward are that we invest in product development, invest in research, invest in developing new products for sale, which are very successful, that we can support our business life as well. In other words, these are the same options that the Confederation of Finnish Industries and the Finnish Institute of Business Studies have also called for from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u216	Mr President! It was a good thing that Mrs. Aalto was still clarifying this list of greens. There really were a few things there that are in line with the government. But, yes, today's debate was a blur by your chairman, one might say, surprisingly gloomy. There was nothing good in the government's proposal, and in this sense, when we look at this whole, yesterday's debate and today's debate, so clearly the options are out, that is my wish. As far as the Left Alliance's proposals are concerned, I think you had far fewer of these own proposals. We have to take many different measures to ensure that there is not one. We are all in favour of research and product development and so on, but what is needed now is also the measures the government is proposing, or the compensatory measures of the social partners to achieve this 5% leap.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u217	Then let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u218	Mr President! After listening to this debate in the hall, it has come to mind that it has always been required in this Chamber that this decision-making which is intended in Finland should be based on the best possible knowledge of the problem we are dealing with; on the other hand, the best knowledge of whether this solution is the solution to this problem; and on the other hand, what are the effects of these solutions? Now that we have listened to this debate, we must ask whether we are in this situation. I don't think so. Many here have then expressed their views on this competitiveness package, the labour market package, its impact on employment and other issues, and these effects are on a rather weak footing. The fact that there is a lack of impact is confirmed by the memos that have been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance. We are not quite sure how this will affect, for example, the pay for sick periods. First of all, Finland does not know how much sick leave we have, for example, there is no information about this. Yet it is thought that the amount will be reduced by reducing the compensation paid to the worker. Well, you might wonder whether this has worked elsewhere and across the bay in Sweden, where it has also been openly admitted that, when absenteeism there has been reduced, it has not only been this measure but other measures have worked much better, such as investments in well-being at work. The same thing about this holiday pay: No one seems to know what it really means if we now give a few hundred thousand people a holiday allowance. For those to whom it is not otherwise prescribed in TES or TES is not in force, there will be such a situation that when an employee and employer then begin to define it in a contract of employment, then the employee should not go into such negotiations, then he will have the law to protect him. The law says quite frankly that 70% of the average holiday allowance is clear. This is an enormous increase in costs when I thought that the government, with this package, was trying to reduce them rather than raise them. In fact, from the background of these examples, I think that it would be very wise at this stage to go through this matter thoroughly in the parliamentary committees before we go to do anything that will ultimately lead to completely different things than was intended. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about this competitiveness of ours and, in particular, about how we can pull it out of our exports. Now I thought I would address it myself when it is always mentioned here that we are dealing with a problem of cost-competitiveness. I am sure there are some, and certainly others, where we have low-processing products, but otherwise we have more of a qualitative problem with exports. Our export base is very narrow, the value added is very low and there is currently no demand for these products. We see that the only demand that is growing is related specifically to consumer goods, for example. What is traditionally produced in Finland: investment goods. The demand for investment goods has not yet gone well up in the world, so it is no wonder that exports in Finland, for example, are plowing. For the time being, if we had problems with cost competitiveness alone, Nokia, for example, should have done very well with this logic only by selling phones at even lower prices or the paper industry should only do so if the paper were a little cheaper. Here again, it is not noticeable that, in fact, in many of our export sectors, the basis of demand runs out: there is no longer any demand for the end product. This has not been recognised, it has not been addressed, and there are no answers in these government papers. What we can do to improve our competitiveness is really by investing in knowledge, unlike what the government is doing, or cutting from it. Even if we learn to produce and commercialise the innovations that we have much more in Finland, we should have the resources of the state. Secondly, how we make it easier for companies to internationalise: especially for small companies, we have hugely good products, which would be in demand. They should be helped to gain access to the world market. Or how we improve the business environment by whether, for example, fairway charges, rail taxes and logistics costs are at the level that some products are worth producing here, or the price of energy we need here and so on, or how we get those foreign investments. Now I wish there was room for new thinking here too. For example, with regard to the reform of the university law, it was done that when the outside gave the euro, the state gave another. Why not now that if the foreign investor gave us the euro, the state would guarantee another through different channels? It would now be sensible to move forward on this matter in such a way that everyone would remain on their own property: the government would take care of the means it has available, the labour market would manage its own minas.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u219	Madam President! First of all, I support the motion of censure against the government by Mr Ville Niinistö. The main mantra of the Finnish Government seems to be that exports must be made at any price, with any product. The idea has been copied directly from Mao Tse-tung China. Mao’s idea was to lower the price of export products regardless of quality and genuine demand. When this did not work, an attempt was made to further reduce the price of the products. The end result — a large part of this hall may also be remembered — was the Chinese cast iron pans, which went in half when they were trying to use a little bit and there was a slight bump. Does the government want to ruin Finland's international reputation in terms of politics in the eyes of the business world and consumers? Like Mao, by cutting education, science, research, the government seems to have chosen the Chinese cast iron pot exports instead of trying to compete for market shares with the highest possible quality products with genuine demand on the international market. And as an anecdote: the price of Chinese steel, according to the latest information, is cheaper than cabbage at the moment, so you should think twice about what you are trying to take and against whom to compete. Madam President! The government is constantly saying that our competitiveness is so poor that we have to make a big leap of 5 or 15 percent, like Mao, so that our products are suitable for international markets. This is a strange argument, as when looking at statistics, Finland's competitiveness does not look as gloomy as the government suggests. Here again today, reference has been made to the World Economic Forum's listing; it is true that Finland's investment fell from 4th to 8th, but we are still number one in the Nordic countries. If you look at purely price competitiveness, for example, according to calculations made by Pekka Sauramo, a specialist at the Finnish Research Institute, unit labour costs are at the same level as in Sweden and lower than in Germany. On 17 September last week Eero Lehto, the forecast manager of the same shop, i.e. the Research Institute of Employees, stated that according to Eurostat statistics, the level of labour costs per hour was lower than in our main competitors in Germany, France and Sweden last year. If our competitiveness and price competitiveness are as poor as they let it be, why did Finland's exports increase by 3 per cent last year if all oil products are counted off? Yes, Finland is an oil country. We buy a lot of crude oil, we process products, we take them forward. This was also the background of Neste’s two-month service stop, from which it was unable to move forward or over properly. Overall, 75% of the different categories of Finnish exports have been on the rise according to Customs statistics. Price competitiveness is, of course, important, but the measures taken in the name of price competitiveness make the situation of the only sector on the surface worse, i.e. the public sector, and they do not raise the value added of petroleum products or create products such as Nokia that the world wants to buy, whatever the price.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u220	Madam President! Here, listening to opposition cases, as in the previous speech, it seems worth investing in this country. But what's the point of that investment not coming here? However, we are at the mercy of market conditions in the world, and if there is no point in investing here, there will be no investment here. And as far as these studies are concerned: Everyone sings their own songs. Someone does, the Labour Economic Research Institute, such that it sounds pleasing to them, but the market forces do not ask these questions. They only go their own way, and we have to adapt to it. An example of this first day’s sick leave liability is taken: The company has a production line with ten employees, for example, and there the guy says he’s sick for a couple of days. You have to hire an employee if you're going to be late at night, because there's no other capacity for that. He'll have to pay for percentages. Two days away, it pays the employer six days' salary. And this will be put on that note, the package that will be traded to that world. Is it worth it? The market forces will dictate the terms. It's just a cold truth. Madam President! Among other things, the Government Communication states: "Export clearly lags behind the development of world There are clear signs of a more permanent phenomenon in which our companies are not doing as well in international competition as they were in the past. In the short term, the success of the export sector depends above all on cost competitiveness." Yesterday I set an example with him. One of the five measures taken by the government is that the employee is legally entitled to a holiday allowance. Its maximum would be around 30% below the practice in most sectors. The change concerns an estimated 25,000 enterprises and more than 200,000 employees. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, the holiday allowance reform should be limited to those areas where there are collective agreement provisions on holiday money, or it should be possible to agree on this at local level. I have repeatedly spoken in favour of local reconciliation in Parliament. The euro is the power that dictates conditions in this single monetary union, and the work goes where the euro best produces. I therefore continue to call for flexibility on the part of both the employer and the employee. Madam President! Another government measure that I would like to raise is that the social security contribution of a private employer is reduced by 1.72 percentage points.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u223	Madam President! Finland needs sound decisions and lifts. Work should always be worthwhile. It must be easy and worthwhile to accept a job. This is the basic income that is needed in a changing world. According to future researchers, it is not the case that one sector is being trained and that the work is being done for life. We'll do serial work at the same time, projects, side jobs, gigs. The concept of entrepreneurship will become more common. Freelance is already developing, creative cooperatives can be one of the alternatives to self-employment. There may be more entrepreneurship cooperatives in the future where tools are shared and members can build new forms of work for themselves through the cooperative. Improving the conditions for small businesses is essential for employment. Making reforms that reduce the obligations of small businesses and red tape, reducing the risk of employment. The probationary period for small businesses should be increased to six months and support for the first employee of the sole entrepreneur is needed. The Government's competitiveness package is based on a reduction in people's salaries and spanking people to work sick when the first day of sickness is unpaid. You shouldn't come to work when you're sick. What if care workers and care workers come to work sick to infect others? A lot of low-paid people have families to support. They're going to have to wonder if there's enough money to lose a day's pay for the little flu. It is also not right for a small entrepreneur to pay the costs of being sick. It would be fairer to develop a common financing solution for this, with the participation of all employers and workers. For example, the government’s planned lump sum for an entrepreneur for the cost of parenting is a good one and a good one. Wage moderation would also be beneficial to the economy, and I hope that a solution will be found in consultation. The government's initial proposal on the reduction of Sunday and overtime pay is not familiar with the working life, how the livelihoods of nurses, police officers and customs officers who work vitally are largely made up of compensations that compensate for hard working hours, three shifts and congested moments. In the end, the government withdrew an unfair act after hearing the midwives. The Government offers the solution for the 30 per cent cut in holiday money. It must be clarified that the obligation to pay holiday money is not imposed on small entrepreneurs. If there is no solution, no legal changes should be adopted. The small worker does not have many of the benefits enjoyed by full - time workers. For example, researchers are poor people working in Finland. They do not count working hours or overtime either. The enzyme researcher is going to spend the night picking up time series samples in the dark lab. The experienced IT developer monitors his work for hours if the encoding flow is on. Research and product development are needed if we are to succeed in a global race for division of labour. But what is the government doing? Designs massive cuts in teaching and research for universities and Tekes research funding. A big hand is taken from where there is too little already. Recently we heard at the Tutkas seminar that Finland will not be able to raise the level of science unless the universities have enough money for large research teams using the expensive equipment and reagents needed for top-level research. They are needed to detect new phenomena and to gather scientific evidence. Digitalisation is one important promise for Finland’s future. But where is the national gateway, a platform where information is transmitted agilely from one application to another and different information systems can communicate with each other? This is what we're waiting for. This is what we need. Tackling youth unemployment is one of our most important tasks. Many young people want apprenticeships, but it is difficult to find. Germany’s low youth unemployment is partly due to the apprenticeship system. There it is easy and inexpensive for businesses to take young people to be trained, and young people mainly find employment in the company after the training period. The apprenticeship system must be reformed in such a way that it becomes a viable form of education and a way of working life. Finland now needs to combine coal and local reconciliation with small businesses, so that everyone can count on Finland to succeed by working and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u224	Madam President! We now have a Government communication on measures to improve cost-competitiveness. We had parliamentary elections in the spring, and the people gave a strong mandate to the government parties. The general request from the electoral fields was that decisions should now be taken in Finland. It seemed that the public's crisis awareness was at a very good level. They did not want a growing debt burden for future generations. There was also a great deal of concern about unemployment, and people were even ready for cuts. At an early stage, the Government presented targets and timetables for actions to improve competitiveness. The government invited the social partners to a joint negotiating table and asked them for proposals. Nevertheless, some of the social partners did not even want to set targets for improving competitiveness. The government was very long-standing, opened up this opportunity several times and, today, we heard the Prime Minister's speech, for the fourth time, this opportunity has now been given to the social partners. When the government did not receive any proposals from the social partners, the government announced its own proposals for improving competitiveness, and they have now been here today on a wide-ranging basis. Perhaps one of the main causes of the debate in public has been the government's proposal to cut Sunday and overtime pay, and that is a good thing. The government heard the midwives and others and made a better proposal, i.e. a cut in holiday money. In the past, street gallons also gave a very favorable approval to the cut in holiday money. It is very understandable that, from the point of view of medical staff, police officers, firefighters as well as others, whose wages represent a significant part of Sunday and overtime pay, this would have been a bad option. Madam President! In the SDP's group statement today it was suggested that this government communication should be submitted to committee. I personally consider it unnecessary because the options to improve cost-competitiveness will then come before us in the form of legislative proposals. Individual legislative proposals are in the referral debate here in the Chamber and then, in due course, in committee. Furthermore, the examination of the communication by the committees at this stage is also unnecessary because the government has still considered it an opportunity for the social partners to propose their own compensatory measures for these actions. In other words, if this were to be dealt with in the committees, these compensatory measures, which we hope would come, would be excluded from these proceedings. There have been many speeches here today about education and the issue of day care. No matter how closely I looked at these documents, they did not say a word about the cuts in education or the part of day care, so it seems that many things have now been unwarranted in this connection. In addition to this five-point programme on cost-competitiveness measures, the Government will improve the security of workers' change and even out family freedoms. This one-off payment of EUR 2500 is a welcome reform of equal treatment for young women, on which, among other things, the Women's Entrepreneurs' Association has put a great deal on the agenda. The security of change in the event of dismissal is also important, because then people face a new challenge and in that case the security of change has a key impact on the future of the person.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u225	Mr President! During the 21st century, Finland's exports have grown by 40 per cent less than demand on the export market. During the same period, Germany, for example, has improved its export market share by around 15 %, although China has risen and so away, partly taken from us. The majority of this Chamber now seems to agree, but that is where it ends. Why is this so? Someone here is talking about productivity, the government is talking about cost-competitiveness. I claim that this is a circle of darkness with three angles that are all true. On the one hand, cost competitiveness and on the other hand, the lack of flexibility sink such productivity-enhancing investments into unprofitable ones. They are not made in Finland. We still create innovations here at the top of the world, but they are also commercialised within Finnish companies unfortunately often elsewhere, because unfortunately it is not worth doing it here in most cases. As we know, when this happens, the machinery stock is ageing, the depreciation is greater than investment and, above all, investment in the more productive regions, as if it were not done with the branches of the old industry, which, on the other hand, is true, causing this problem because it strikes back at that cost-competitiveness. The real measure of the competitiveness of work is not in itself the price of work compared to German or Swedish pay, but how we, Germany and Sweden have the price of work in relation to the goods sold by us, by them and by third parties and the prices of their input products and those used by us. In this respect, the unfortunate fact is that even if our wages were exactly the same, it is said now, in the TES as German wages, we would still have a problem gap ahead of us because the Germans have been able to invest in more productive sectors, their productivity development and price levels on the world market will be much better in their average product portfolio than we do. We need jobs if we want to keep them, clearly more moderate in the price of work than in Germany, before we then get profitability here, investment in productivity and the price-fixing power that ultimately determines our standard of living, that we can pay at least as good a wage here as in Germany, for example, in a simplified way. In this respect, when, for example, my esteemed representative Yanar said here that Nokia was saved not by cost but by quality: true, but I claim that not only was Nokia wisely concerned about the money in the '90s, but also through various commuters, when it came to the big devaluation and the restoration of cost competitiveness, it was equally a prerequisite for Nokia and other subcontractors to be able to develop that activity in Finland for quite a long time. Now we don't have that devaluation weapon in use. We have a similar problem, we must now use the weapon that is, that is, the reduction in unit labour costs, such as in Latvia, Ireland, but also in other countries, after the crisis, there has been and there has been light at the end of the tunnel. Well, then it has also been asked here that unit labour costs in fact and wage levels do not increase employment at all. For example, Mr Arhinmäki talked about this, and I would throw a ball at the Left Alliance in whether we should perhaps then raise wages by 5 percentage points, for example, if this increase in purchasing power employs at least the same number or more people. I believe that there are quite a few people who will respond to this in a serious yes. However, exactly the same logic here in Mr Arhinmäki had several times over the day to argue that the reduction in unit labour costs, not the reduction of wage supplements, would not increase employment. How much it adds: we economists are enough in many shades of what is the percentage. The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, referred here to the estimate by the highest official in the Ministry of Finance that flexibility is about half of the percentage of the reduction in unit labour costs, the amount of employment that will increase, but everyone will see that, if wages are high, work will be less on average. One of the special features of this package is, in my opinion, that quite a few have noticed that, in fact, the biggest factor here is the reduction in employers' contributions, in which the state, although it is receiving savings from the reduction in other wage supplements, is also taking the risk of some 150 million. Make a clean hand-out of EUR 850 million for Finnish employment. At the same time, the reduction in labour income is increasing by nearly EUR 500 million. In practice, at the beginning of next year's wage bill, the impact on average income on purchasing power is much smaller than what we are talking about here, and it is really a good thing that this net purchasing power decreases less, but we will quickly gain cost-competitiveness. Then we will be able to get investment in the country, when it is worthwhile doing productively here, and then in the future we will not have to reduce costs that much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u226	Mr Uotila has one reply, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u227	Mr President! A representative of my esteem. However, as an economist, does he deny that if domestic purchasing power, consumer demand is severely reduced, such as one per cent x, it would have an impact on employment through the calculation of domestic consumer demand? That's what we're criticizing, that's what we're warning you about. As regards export products: We must remember that the foreign share of our export products, the share of imports in our export products, is increasing all the time. We have components that come from abroad, then they are built and taken out. In other words, the cost of wages in export products has also decreased from what it was in previous decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u228	Mr. Mykkänen will answer, and then we'll go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u229	Yes, let us forget that employment is increasing — there are tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who say that they are ready to hire but are not afraid when it is so complicated and so expensive work in Finland — if, however, there is a reasonable downward trend in the cost of work. And even if the purchasing power of each employee is lower, I would argue that when many of those who are now without their own will get a job — partly thanks to this package — at least as much as likely because of the local arrangement package — then that purchasing power will not be lost. Plus then, of course, the point is clear, as we agree with Mr Uotila: it is there that the competition is at what price, the price-quality ratio can be sold. So, in my opinion, this direction is quite clear. If someone claims that raising wage levels can increase purchasing power enough to increase employment, then this is a very easy job. By raising wages, we can gain full employment and increase living standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u230	Madam President! It is, in itself, wonderful that the government is now trying to find ways of improving cost competitiveness that do not target shift workers so unilaterally. It is also positive that efforts are still being made to find better solutions through negotiations between social partners. On the other hand, it is a little strange that the bad options of the government are being taken forward on this side, as if nothing were happening. What does this mean? If the social partners come to a common view, how will the government then act? I'm sure we'll see about that next week. The most questionable of the government's mandatory laws is the limitation of the first sickness allowance and the reduction of the allowance for sickness days. Firstly, it is very unclear what problem this is trying to solve, as the number of absenteeisms in Finland has long remained very stable. Rather, the problem is that our sick leave periods are quite long from an international point of view. This is not by punishing people for being sick, but by investing in personnel, well-being at work and working ergonomics, i.e. measures that already exist. Furthermore, there is no evidence that Sweden has had a significant impact on absenteeism. If they were reduced by this measure in Finland, it would probably be because the low income cannot afford unpaid days. Of course, many experts can work with the flu from home, for example, but in many areas this is simply not possible. So the question is: Who benefits from nurses, kindergarten teachers and salesmen coming to work sick? On the other hand, we can also ask: What happens if a nurse, doctor or kindergarten teacher comes to work sick? What additional costs would it entail if they infected other workers, and what would be the risk to patient safety? We have sectors where working ill is a real risk, and we cannot put the various categories of workers on an unequal footing in this regard. Nor can we risk our health care and patient safety. Sickness and surgery also occur most often in the long-term ill, for example in cancer patients, as has been noted here, or in people with rheumatism who may have to have several periods of absent work due to their illness. They would have so many unpaid days a year that it would be evident in their livelihoods. Mr President! Employers are currently compensated for almost 70% of the parental leave costs that can be estimated with sufficient precision from the health insurance scheme. Compensation is financed from employment income insurance, which is paid by all employees, employers and entrepreneurs. Thus, the cost of parenting is reasonably well balanced, but it is true that the cost burden is on the shoulders of women-dominated sectors. In this respect, the one-off payment of EUR 2500 promised by the government to the mother’s employer is a beautiful gesture, but there are also a number of problems. First of all, the best way to offset the cost of parenting would be for fathers to use a larger share of family leave. There would be no incentive for employers to discriminate against young women in the recruitment process in the fear of maternity leave and the cost of such leave. However, the government is not proposing any development measures for a more even distribution of freedoms. This one-off payment of EUR 2500, which, judging by the government communication, only applies to employers of mothers, does not encourage any father to participate more in the care of his child than is currently the case. Second of all: After years of talking about balancing the costs of parenting, this is intended to offset costs within the system, i.e. by employees and employers continuing to finance the costs of the system through their social security contributions. Now, however, this EUR 2500 handout is to be paid for taxpayers' money, so it will become part of a larger government transfer from taxpayers
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u231	Madam President! Good government! Today we are talking about what is competitiveness and how it is promoted. After all, competitiveness means the ability of the national economy to cope under conditions of economic competition. It is usually assessed on the basis of price, marketing and know-how — including know-how — on domestic and international markets. Competitiveness is that it allows for an increase in value added, a higher margin and better wages. Competitiveness is access, price and quality, including quality. This morning’s news tells us that Finland will be ranked eighth in comparison with the World Economic Forum on Competitiveness, when last year’s investment was fourth. So a clear drop in relation to your previous own result, the direction is wrong. Yet, in this comparison, we are still at the top of the world, even at the top of international comparisons, whether competitiveness or human capital were measured. Even in this situation, Finland leaves behind all the Nordic countries, Canada and Austria in its competitiveness comparison of the World Economic Forum. What does this mean? The comparison of the Economic Forum is a study of the structural competitiveness of the countries, i.e. the long-term growth potential that we therefore have better than others today. We've got a good frame for growth, we've got potential. We are now asking for the best possible use of this potential. We have know-how and quality. For the price alone, we'll never be number one in the race. We need to stick strictly to knowledge and quality, otherwise there will be no new growth, no innovation, and otherwise we will not have a good and competitive future. We all know that, in addition to the competitiveness-oriented measures now under discussion, other major changes in the state budget are being prepared for the same purpose. They are therefore all directly linked to competitiveness. To date, our strengths include a functioning social structure, health care, high education and a high level of innovation. Very good, even the best basic education in the world and a skilled workforce based on good education are the cornerstones of our competitiveness. Is it wise economic thinking in the long term that the government itself will use other measures to undermine this knowledge? A people with a level playing field, high-quality education, where inequality and income inequality are as low as possible, will be the most competitive, and will continue to be the most prosperous and most secure internationally. This is what we Greens say 'yes' to. These are the assets which you, Prime Minister and Government, may not have taken sufficiently into account, because, despite your good intentions, the measures proposed by your government are likely to lead in part in the opposite direction. Madam President! The Government is committed to the fact that if, in addition to the competitiveness package, a moderate wage solution is achieved, the government will reduce the tax burden on labour. The present competitiveness package makes the already difficult position of low-income employees particularly difficult. Could the government come against the low incomes by promising to direct this conditional tax reduction to the low incomes? Could it also help to achieve a moderate wage settlement now that cuts in benefits create a particularly strong pressure to raise wages in the very low-paid sectors? Mr President! According to the vision quoted by Prime Minister Sipilä, public authorities, together with Finns, are making difficult decisions, together. Employment and competitiveness are not actually improving on their own. Joint cleaning of solutions and options is under way. Let's do that, too, carefully and together, with an accurate ear, listening to and weighing different options.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u232	Madam President! As has been said on many occasions today, the problems of the Finnish economy are deep. GDP growth is close to zero, unemployment is rising, periods of unemployment are increasing. Recent news of developments in the international economy has again been worrying. Finland's GDP is projected to grow very modestly, and what is particularly worrying is that private investment will fall for the fourth year in a row and in the current year it will decrease by 2%. Public finances will remain in deficit until the end of the decade. Public debt exceeds the 60% threshold this year and the debt ratio is not falling in the next few years, although the debt ratio is slowing down slightly. The picture is therefore worrying and gloomy. We are in that circle of darkness, as Mr Mykkänen aptly said a moment ago. I myself raised this information because, among other things, through these, I am convinced that, taking into account the situation picture, the government's proposals and policies for improving cost competitiveness are highly justified. In many speeches here it has been said that the price of our workforce cannot be a problem on the export market. However, I personally understand that when you compare the total cost of work, the cost of work, the value of the production made by companies, the value added, it is simply too high in Finland, and this is a particular problem with exports. The importance of government proposals or of improving social contract and cost competitiveness in seeking economic growth is absolutely essential. The importance extends through exports and investment to employment and the general government deficit. The social pact, with these solutions, has the potential to make a significant contribution to the development of employment. Its impact on the potential for a reduction in the general government deficit is therefore essential. Economic experts have estimated that improving the competitiveness of the government by 5% through changes in working life would increase exports by several percentage points. Everyone can calculate that the impact on GDP would then also be significant. It should be remembered that when the market does not grow, we can only increase exports by winning from others. This requires far greater changes than success in growing market conditions by riding a wavebrush. The decisions made during the last government period have not taken advantage of Finland’s cost competitiveness. That's why we have to get out of the way. What makes the problem difficult is that it is not just a cyclical crisis, but, above all, structural. If production, employment and investment in Finland are weaker than in competing countries from one year to the next, the reason is that investment and employment in Finland are not a very attractive option. I think this is an indisputable fact. It is also a fact that even wage moderation does not bring a rapid improvement in competitiveness. Unfortunately, even in order to restore competitiveness, we cannot have real earnings for many years. Why, then, should we commit ourselves to such reforms that are easy to experience as unjust? I think it is simply because the options, all the options, are worse. Without such changes, our economy will not improve, resulting in the collapse of the financial base of the welfare state which is important to the normal Finnish citizen and the collapse of safety nets and services. As long as the state and the municipalities can continue to make rapid indebtedness, this recent threat will not be realised. And perhaps that is why it has been and still is difficult for people to justify why bad things should be done now. The opposition here estimates that the government would be dismantling the contractual society. In reality, all the parties to the three positions now need to demonstrate that Finland is in a position to reach an agreement under difficult circumstances on the reforms required by the situation. The break-up and survival of the contractual society and the development of it are a joint project by all parties involved. No one can maintain it, but neither can they break it alone. We must now make decisions in our country's direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u233	Madam President! Finland’s cost competitiveness is weak. This is due to a long-term decline in almost all industries. Productivity growth has deteriorated in relation to competitor countries and labour costs have increased at the same time faster than those of competitor countries. This cannot continue. In the world — where Finland really has a good reputation, although the opposition prefers to claim something else — the leading authorities that assess competitiveness are the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) and the World Economic Forum (WEF). IMD measures cost competitiveness and WEF measures structural competitiveness. Sometimes we were the most competitive country in the world, we are no longer, especially when compared to competing countries. The aim of the social pact negotiations was to agree on joint actions and to assume responsibility for the state of our country. We failed, you know the reasons. The Government Programme requires wage moderation and a reduction in unit costs. Government measures are not nice, but they are necessary. At the same time as the comrades on the left are squeezing, I ask them to look in the mirror, because the 'continuous wage increases' model and model Arhinmäki, or 'debt repays itself', have, indeed, produced results and driven us into this swamp. Now the citizens have to pay the heavy price, because in the past there has been no courage to act and to take the necessary measures. Mr President! The government will reduce the holiday money by 30 per cent. It is a fair measure. At the same time, perhaps everyone will be entitled to a holiday allowance that was not there before. Annual leave is reduced to 30 days, mainly for the public sector. A discount is made on the private employer's social security contribution, which helps to create jobs. At a press conference of the Ministry of Finance on 8 September, it was estimated that the reduction in the employer's social security contribution by 1.72 percentage points would reduce labour costs by 1.72 per cent. This has proved to be an incorrect estimate because the social security contribution is paid on the basis of the wages and salaries rather than on the basis of labour costs. The Ministry of Finance now estimates that the measure will reduce labour costs by 1.41%. In 2017, the private sector wages and salaries sum is estimated at EUR 61577 million and labour costs at EUR 74857 million. A small calculation can be made here: a 1.72% reduction in the social security contribution will reduce social security funds' contribution income by 1.72% by a factor of EUR 61577 or EUR 1060 million. This is about 1.41% of labour costs. As a result of the tax deductibility of the social security contribution, the reduction is expected to increase the tax due by 20% by a factor of EUR 1060 million, or EUR 212 million. Thus, net employers' contributions and public sector revenues will decrease by EUR 847 million. I think that is an excellent thing. The wage moderation promoted by the government leads to a level of GDP that is about 2% higher than the so-called basic calculation that has been carried out previously. This is compared to the 2019 level. Of course, it should be borne in mind that wage moderation is still slowing down the development of tax revenues in the medium term, and the long-term budgetary impact assessments are certainly better than medium-term. Finally, a few words on the working time law. After all, it provides for the increased salary of the common saints, but the nature of the holiday is laid down in the Church Act. The government cannot change the church law, but it requires, of course, the council's decision. Thus, the date of the Archbishops cannot be postponed without the church’s position. An easier and more practical solution would be to move helatorstai and the Epiphany into Saturday, but it is not that simple. The church has called for responsibility to be shouldered in the refugee crisis, so it would be desirable that it should also be met on issues relating to Finland and the problems of Finns. Finland needs cooperation in all areas from baby to grandpa,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u234	Mr President! Finnish working life has been undergoing a major change in recent years. The change has already forced us to look at the work and the conditions for doing it in a whole new way. Workers' flexibility in working time has increased as a result of fluctuations in labour demand. Management has been improved and rather than mechanical monitoring of work, it has been possible to focus on the quality of work and the outcome itself. The result has been an increase in labour productivity by means that everyone thinks are fair. At the same time, there are also more unpleasant phenomena in working life. There's too much nausea, too much work, too much fatigue. Many workers are distressed by the demand for multiple competences and, for example, by increased language skills requirements. More part-time work is being done, but unfortunately many people have to do it because there is no other job available. It is important to deal with these problems. For example, greater efforts must be made to develop well-being at work, as the aim is also to extend working careers. However, this objective can be achieved through reflection and agreement. The Finnish welfare society has been built through cooperation and must continue to be so in the future. However, the government has introduced different means. Unilateral dictation and the hard labour force package caused a storm in the country, on the subject. Fortunately, the government has now withdrawn from a few of its most objectionable proposals, but there is still a lot of things that are difficult to understand and accept. For example, low-paid women working in the care sector continue to be disciplined most by the hospital. For example, they do not have the opportunity to work remotely in the cold, nor do they have the opportunity to come to work ill to endanger the safety of patients. The long-term sick, who are often on sick leave, suffer from a very significant loss of income. The government has applied for a model in the sickness penalty in Sweden, where, however, absenteeism has increased since 2010, and has also increased. Punishment for illness is not only humanly wrong, but also short-sighted policy for longer-term objectives and the development of working life. Even the Ministry of Finance's own notes state that the reform can increase work as a sick person, which also reduces productivity. In addition to this, it is stated in practice that the impact of the reform cannot be fully assessed. How can such reforms be made on such weak grounds? The reduction in holiday allowances will make hundreds of euros a break in the livelihood of many families and thus threaten to have a severe impact on domestic demand. When exports are struggling, it is extremely important to run the domestic wheels by all possible means. It is also worth noting that the reduction in holiday money risks also making hundreds of millions of euros in public finances as a loss of tax revenue. There are, therefore, these examples within the coercive package, taking into account the proposals that the committees must consider as quickly as possible. Consultation with experts in the field and wide-ranging impact assessments. That is why I support the motion made by Mrs Lauri Ihalainen to refer the matter to committee. Above all, however, government policy is a kind of political leadership that is not used to being seen in Finland. Good management in a company can deliver better results and enable working time to be used for value-added work. Investing in well-being at work reduces sick leave and disability. Good leadership is also good leadership in politics. With patience and cooperation and discussion, we can go much further than coercion and dictating.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u235	Madam President! I recognise that I have often been disgusted by a social debate in which the economy is at the heart of everything, as if all human life were subordinate to the economy. This has often led to an attempt to value all human life from an economic point of view: what economic benefits it is and so on. This has led to many unpleasant phenomena, such as the building of human relationships on such an economic benefit. In working life, demands have increased and become tougher, and so people have become maimed in many ways. The fact is, however, that only a functioning economy will secure bread, well-being and work. However, it must be understood that a functioning economy is not an end in itself. It has an instrument value so that people and human communities can build more and more of a common good, to realise personal and more widely the dreams and goals of the human community. Now we are at a time when we as a nation are not doing well in economic terms, and when we are not doing well in economic terms, there will be many other social problems and also tragic human fates. In order to be able to deal with the mild social phenomena as little as possible, the economy must be put on a sound footing, so that there are conditions for sharing and building the common good, because they all require financial investment. It is extremely dangerous to close your eyes to the facts. It is a human part of democracy to present alternatives and criticise those in power, but responsible opposition action is not just to list social mishaps, the difficulties in the air, without taking up and seeking and presenting real routes out of the midst of the difficulties. It is not enough and it is not good for any cause to shout "falsely extinguished". One of these great goals of the government, and I would like to point out it here, is the talk of this digital leap. Indeed, in digitalisation, we need to move forward. We are unquestionably lagging behind in international comparisons, but the danger lies in the fact that we are going ahead of a consultative democracy so that the harsh moneyers will be able to share the spoils, so that there is now an opportunity to wrap big profits in the vests. Unfortunately, the IT history of public administration in recent years has been quite depressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u236	Madam President! Much has been said about mandatory legislation here these days. As a rule, legislation is mandatory. Although not all infringements are sanctioned, the general sense of justice is based on compliance with the law, and this is happening in Europe and especially in the Nordic countries. When it comes to labour law, in which the government has limited powers, I have wondered how the trade union movement is holding up so firmly the general commitment, which is by no means a common way of operating on the labour market, rather a special deviation. When the general commitment also applies to those who are not parties to the agreement, and often with even less flexibility, I shall be surprised that no attention has been paid to this issue in the same speeches. Especially when these international comparisons, which assess working life and society in Finland more broadly, indicate the rigidity of the labour market as one of the least managed areas. Germany, which corrected this issue, is doing very well. It would really be worth stopping at whether there is anything more to be done in this labour market than lamenting the risk that a unilateral right of veto on employment might be at stake for some. Mrs Kiljunen's speech referred to the fact that she was sick and worked. I don't think you should come to work when you're sick. It is dangerous for other workers, customers and probably even, in some cases, the most affected person. That is precisely the starting point, that when you are sick you do not come. The question is who is responsible for the wages paid by the entrepreneur, often a very small entrepreneur. The majority of Finnish companies have fewer than ten jobs, even fewer than five, in which someone else, often the entrepreneur himself, performs the job which then pays the level of earnings of a sick person up to a certain date when society meets. In a way, the same applies to the cost of old age. I don't understand, I've never understood why it has to be an employer. Why is it not the same as primary school or other education or other social security for society? These two factors have led to the emergence in Finland of an excessive number of professionals, self-employed persons, perhaps 150,000 to 200,000 people who try but do not employ anyone, not being able to increase the company, because they cannot bear the risk of creating an employment relationship, which is precisely because of the absence of these days of illness, other absences and, above all, perhaps because it is not possible to be sure, for everyone, no matter how it has been determined, whether or not they will succeed in this task. And there are few other jobs in a small company, unlike in large companies where, at least after some time, a person can be transferred to another job. I belong to a church, but I've started to wonder what the church's social responsibility for moving these archaic saints is. I have informed my own vicar that it is mentally difficult for me if the whole of society should take responsibility, to accept that the church withdraws for religious reasons, so that the holidays cannot be transferred to the weekend. Not all Finns belong to the church, but this ecclesiastical support, which is provided as compensation for the former church tax, remains to be considered. Would it be better for the church to raise its own resources and then make its own decisions, and this close bond between the state and the Lutheran Church and the Orthodox Church would be reassessed. This equality — good in itself. As far as equality is concerned, I would say that, fortunately, everyone in Finland has almost similar opportunities for self-development. Free education up to the doctoral degree in practice means that everyone is able to develop themselves in practice in the direction that they want to do without having to have their own financial support. The cost is borne by the State. But the fact that everything would be divided into equal taxes was a major social experiment in the neighbouring Soviet Union, when motivation for self-development disappeared, and yes, the central starting point of Finnish society is to provide people with opportunities to develop themselves and enjoy what has been achieved by their own work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u237	Madam President! Finland’s weak competitiveness has been directly reflected in our employment rate for years. It is symbolic that when the world economy and Europe recover, Finland's exports and the national economy do not. Recovery with debt money and job creation in the public sector are not enough. New jobs are needed specifically for the private sector, so that we can take care of the services of society as we have done so far. In turn, an improvement in cost competitiveness is needed in order to create private jobs. In the short term, it may mean a fall in the purchasing power of employees, but the competitiveness measures proposed by the Sipilä Government to Finland, which is dependent on exports, are essential. Madam President! I am proud that the Sipilä government has gone to find real reasons and change the situation. Listening to the discussions in this Chamber, I get the feeling that not everyone recognizes the situation and is not seen as very serious. The opposition wonders that the government, despite its actions, is taking on more debt while forgetting that its own proposals would significantly increase its debt. In raising cost competitiveness as one of the five measures, Prime Minister Sipilä has proposed a 5% reduction in unit labour costs. The maximum annual leave is set at six weeks, the sickness allowance becomes effective, the private employer's social security contribution is reduced by 1.72 percentage points. After a long investigation, it proved possible to regulate holiday allowance by law and thus reduce its level by an average of 30%. Personally, I am very pleased with this change. It shows that good leadership can also include changing means of flight if better means are found. Even if the moderate cut in Sunday supplements had undeniably had a stimulating effect on the tourism and restaurant sectors, for example, it would have to be done by means of legislation that the cut was definitely the strongest in the low-paid care sector, where it has a large share in wage formation. As we heard from the Prime Minister, I would like to point out once again that holiday money is not being set for those who have not had holiday money. In addition to measures to improve cost-competitiveness, the Government will improve the security of workers’ change and the cost of parental leave will be balanced to facilitate the situation in women-dominated sectors. The sharing of parenting costs has not progressed in the triangulation, so it was high time to change direction. Mr President! The entrepreneur must be released to try, the unemployed to find employment, the carer to care for and the teacher to teach. There has been talk of reducing the administrative burden for ages, but only the Sipilä Government has taken the norm as its top priority. There is indeed a price to be paid for regulation. I have just had a conversation with Finnish entrepreneurs who have moved to Estonia, and a little surprise came to me that tax treatment is not the root cause of the transition to Estonia, but the simple and frivolous bureaucracy of the country. This is where much has been lost in Finland, but with a sensible norm and getting rid of the worst of regulation nonsense, we release people into action and companies to develop their activities. In such a Finland, inactivity and unemployment are significantly lower. As an example, I could already mention the legislative changes that speed up the construction of the Ministry of the Environment in order to facilitate planning. In the autumn, for example, a proposal will be submitted to Parliament to abandon the procedure for establishing common general formulas for regional planning. I would also like to point out that the most important way to improve competition is through the balanced development of Finland as a whole. Mr President! According to my understanding, it is up to Parliament to legislate on Finnish law. This includes labour law. We are also responsible here for Finland's economy. As Minister Stubb said, the government has the responsibility for results. I think it is responsible to decide on matters that affect the outcome and not to wait for something to happen. We have already seen that nothing happens by waiting. Prime Minister Sipilä has also made an excellent constructive invitation to the table for the fourth time, and still new, better proposals are welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u238	Mr President! First of all, the opposition and the Ay movement must be commended for a fine rhetorical insight: you have discovered that there is a compulsory law which must be respected. I hope, however, that you do not think that there are non-compulsory laws that can be complied with if you feel that way. If you did not yet know, I advise you to obey the laws that are laid down, for they are all mandatory laws. There is nothing new about the fact that the law restricts the agreements concluded by the parties, that is normal legislation. Of course, the Constitutional Card has also been drawn when someone puts forward ideas that do not appeal to the Green Left. Did not 195 million dollars of tax-subsidised membership payments really bring better ideas at Hakaniemi's end? It is truly a pity that, as the only Nordic welfare state, we are a euro country and are tied to a currency that is too strong. The rest of the Nordic countries are bubbling in their own currency brilliantly, not talking about similar welfare cuts. Since we are a euro country and the currency is not flexible, someone else must be flexible, and unfortunately that is the services of the welfare state and the cost of work. Since there is no money to devalue, only internal devaluation remains an option. There were warnings about these things when, under the leadership of the Socialist Group, the country was exported to its euro currency through very questionable procedures. At the time, it was a populist scare. What do you think now that the price is actually paid for being on all the tables?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u241	Mr President! Just to remind you that mandatory legislation is a legal term, in exactly the same way as willful legislation, and they have a certain definition of legislation. It should now be remembered and not succumbed to the fact that now all laws are mandatory. Not all laws are mandatory.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u242	Mr President! We must remember that competitiveness is much more than wages, social costs or working hours. Above all, it is about competence, how we can produce products in Finland for which there is demand worldwide. This is the best competition policy and it is also the best internal devaluation that we use our expertise to produce products that are genuinely needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u243	Chairman! I understood what Mr Mäkelä said just now so that he wanted to say that all the legislation is binding and he wanted to point out that we would not drum up the concept of such things that this is now something very special that the legislator is making laws. I just wanted to say, as a lawyer, that I think we all know what the mandatory provisions are, so they cannot be agreed otherwise. But no laws are provided for the purpose that they are some kind of poems, that we can watch them and carry them out if we want.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u244	And then back to the list of speakers. Congressman Jaskari is gone. Congressman Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u245	Mr President! Today, in the evening newspaper, at least in the online version, I found this debate today to be very informative. It mentioned earlier in the debate the World Economic Forum (WEF)’s assessment that Finland’s overall competitiveness had fallen from fourth to eighth place from last year to this year. Overall competitiveness is more than price competitiveness, but it is price competitiveness that has been discussed today. Juha Tervala, an expert at the University of Helsinki, said that in any case, Finland must seize the price competitiveness which the government is now seeking with this communication. Mr President! On Monday I was going around local companies in Kauhava in my hometown, and there was a clear message that it was great when, after many years, someone was doing something and has taken action. I, the Speaker, have always been a member of the union. I've been a member of the High School League, the Military Federation, the student organizations at the university, I'm a trade union now. I personally have a very important contractual society. I should also like to make a plea here that the social partners should find a better solution than the communication debate we are now debating. It seems that the Finnish labour market system is locked, it is not working at the moment. There is no trust for some reason. From the very bottom of my heart, I hope that now, in both the South Bank and Hakaniemi, we will move out of our own bubble and start to settle things for the benefit of the Finns. There are many painful factors in this package to dismantle Finland’s poor economic development — Finland’s economic development is one of the worst in the European Union, we are in the observation class with Greece, our unemployment is increasing most in the EU at the moment. However, I will now take up two points in particular which are now being presented in this package. In fact, both of them are those that have been spoken about in Finnish politics for as long as I have followed them, i.e. for less than twenty years. The position of women in the labour market. Until now, it has just been said that we should in some way compensate for the problem of young women, women of the best age, not having access to the labour market, having permanent employment relationships because employers are afraid of the cost of pregnancy, maternity leave and parental leave. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, we have a government in this republic that intervenes in this matter with a lump sum of EUR 2500 for the employer. The second thing that has been said for the last twenty years is too high employers' contributions, the side costs of work. We have been told a long time ago about the Holm-Greenland model, there have been many other models. And now, too, this matter — that when a person is admitted to work and the odds are almost double what it pays for the company — is being taken up. The employer's social security contribution will be reduced by 1.72%. This question of cutting the holiday allowance has been somewhat surprising — it must have surprised us all — but I personally consider this cutting of the holiday allowance and introducing the holiday allowance into the annual holiday law to be a fairer way than cutting off these evening supplements and other supplements. Today I have received a number of communications from micro-entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, who are in such non-generally binding sectors to which the holiday money would now come. And I think it is very important that, now that the annual leave law is being reformed, it allows for local reconciliation in non-generally binding sectors so that no small-time entrepreneur in this situation of recession is further suppressed. Mr President! It has been asked who these decisions are made to. I think that this package is being presented specifically for the unemployed, for the huge, growing number of Finnish unemployed. There are many young graduates who seem to have a spark of hope. For them, the government is now presenting such a hard and violent package. I also think it is very important that this internal devaluation is not now being paid for by pensioners and students who are the real poor. Mr President! I understand that sustainable development also includes economically sustainable development. And when I have listened to these words of the Greens during this early parliamentary term, I wonder where that thought has gone. Whatever comes with singing, it goes whistling. Tight housekeeping is needed. I hope that, even after this process, I will be able to remain the man of the union, both as the man of the rural union and then as the man of the trade union.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u246	Mr President! The currency of the national economy in monetary union is not flexible. In addition to this, if the price of inputs is not flexible, only unemployment will be flexible, and that is realism for us now. The total cost of labour from production inputs is the most important factor in determining our price competitiveness. The book published this year by Professor Vesa Kanniainen estimates that the work will determine directly and indirectly most of the price of the product or service sold. The situation is amazingly similar in both services and industry. The situation in the ministry is clear. In many jobs, such as catering, variable costs are almost exclusively labour costs. We are talking here about high-skilled work and higher-level work. That's good. However, labour costs will also have an impact there. The more complex the product, the more intermediate stages in production, and the different stages of production create value added and bear labour costs. They also occur in transport and storage. Labour costs are cumulated with the product and often increase to 60-80% of the duty-free price of the product. Mr President! Therefore, the functioning of the labour market and the improvement of the wage-setting mechanism are at the heart of the Government's list of measures. Finnish contractual society has been praised here in the Chamber. Unfortunately, there are no cheerers for this model either in the real economy or outside our own borders. In yesterday's World Economic Forum competitiveness comparison, we ranked 140 for flexibility in the labour market, last. In addition to WEF, the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF and rating agencies have listed inflexible labour markets as a key problem for Finland. In the long term, the cost of work cannot be higher than its productivity. That productivity is better known at local level than here in Parliament or in social partners. Mr President! Some debaters argue that labour costs are not relevant; only quality of work is important. Then they say that the problem is not with prices but with the lack of demand. In a global economy, that demand is determined by the customer. He's making a job decision for us. He decides where to buy the product or service and at what price or whether to buy it. The company only acts as an intermediary in this transaction. If the company does not sell the product at the price it chooses, we can of course say that the problem lies in demand. We can talk to each other here that Finland’s success has never been determined by the cost of work before, but by knowledge. However, that does not change the basic truth that the goods will not be sold unless the price is calculated. Waiting for a better cycle, we may run out of money. The Government's list of measures includes ways to reduce the total cost of work by means of a one-off leap. In the long term, however, our competitiveness will only be determined by the possibility of agreeing wages and other working conditions where demand and supply meet, i.e. at the workplace level. Companies already have full incentives to improve their own and their employees' productivity. These compensatory measures, which have been presented to Parliament today, also give room for local agreement. They respect the freedom of contract in its traditional spirit, i.e. that the employee and employer have a mandate to agree on working conditions in a binding manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u247	Madam President! Sipilä’s Government’s objective of improving Finland’s competitiveness, employment and controlling public sector indebtedness is likely to get everyone’s approval and support. A few weeks ago, I was in a stop demonstration in Rovaniemi, where people had come to protest against the government's mandatory legislation and against wage cuts. It became clear that Finns understand the difficult situation of the Finnish economy and acknowledge that something needs to be done. The second message, however, was that the economy should be balanced in a balanced and fair way. It cannot be that low - paying people who work hard shift pay the biggest slice for economic activity. The third observation was that the trade union movement and the mass force have not disappeared from Finland, although this has sometimes been predicted. This was demonstrated by the mass of people who had been mobilised by the unjust dictation policy of the government. The wage-earners who came to the demonstration said clearly to the government's policy: no! The cures of the Sipilä government are tough: the Epiphany and Helatorstai are converted into unpaid holidays, the first of the sickness days would be unpaid, the annual leave will be reduced and the holiday money will be cut. I do not believe that these medicines will bring Finland up. In addition to these cuts, the government supports the private sector at the expense of the public. The Government will reduce the private employer's social security contribution by 1.72 percentage points from the beginning of 2017. Sipilä has said that this is financed by cutting public wages and holidays. The government's policy is based on ideological choices: to defeat the public sector and, at the same time, to support the private side. Both the private and the public sides are needed, but there is no need for confrontation. The government's policy has been woozy. First, attempts were made to reach a social pact that failed because it would have been the hardest to deal with the women-dominated sectors of low pay and shift work, where the financial loss of pay would have been the largest in relative terms. The government then announced that it would implement the planned cost savings of the workforce in another way. All the weakenings the government intends to implement with a unilateral enforced law, which is usually used in countries where democracy takes its first steps. Over the years, the sites to be cut have been contracted out through negotiations and agreements between the Ay movement and employers' organisations. There has been an increase in anger among employees that the government intends to have provisions in the law, that these matters should not be exceeded in sectoral national collective agreements, even if the negotiating parties wish to do so. The Centre Party, the Coalition Party and the Finns Party have chosen a tough line for employees and their representative trade unions. The aim seems to be to dismantle the contractual society, to restrict the rights of ay, to eliminate the generality of collective agreements — i.e. the employer's exclusive right to determine the salary of an employee. After all, this was the case in England in the past years with Iron Lady Margaret Thatcher, whose reputation in the minds of the British streetman and woman still needs to be shuddered. The competitiveness of companies has been improved by many governments for several years. In addition to the poor competitive position of exports, is there a reason to stop exports in the narrow range of products, quality and old-fashionedness, lack of innovation and marketing? Finland will continue to succeed only by agreeing rules on working life, ensuring fair treatment and purchasing power of employees and citizens, and creating a high-quality framework for business and business activities. If we do not turn around, we will be paying debt for this policy in the form of human suffering and ill health for a long time to come. What is significant, by the way, in this Chamber is that the representatives of the centre and of the assembly are not here at all to defend this coercive package. This, too, is noteworthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u248	Madam President! There are already half a million unemployed people in this country who have not been given a job, suffering and distress. Now we are trying to improve on this. Of course, there are a lot of things in this budget package that we now have to deal with, and approval of these will hurt. It is perhaps the most painful thing to do because we do not know the exact consequences of these decisions. People, and we too, very often have a need to resist change. We don't even have the courage to try something new. We know that what has been done in this country has not been a good policy. Exports have fallen, unemployment has risen, and people are in bad shape. Mental health problems have also increased in this country for this reason. These things need to be changed. One good thing about this — or more good things — is that the cost of family leave is now being shared with the employer of both mother and father. This would be a good thing if, for example, the unions could move forward. They haven't made it. Only Metal has made good progress as a single union, which also allows the father to stay home to care for the sick child. In other marriages, this whole thing hasn't really worked out, and it's a shame. Here too, the work of the trade union movement is needed in any case. It is absolutely human that if a person is laid off, he will receive the average wage of training for himself in his job. Very often, in the first phase, these layoffs are the low-paid ones, when on average more money is spent on education than the person’s monthly salary has been. Moreover, it is a very good thing that occupational health services are guaranteed for six months. Someone has said that this will not affect anything if there are only minimum occupational health services in the workplace, but it will, because its occupational health service will at least provide it with a referral to the next doctor, if necessary. The statutory right to a holiday allowance is a very good thing, and this is one of the most balanced cuts. This cuts off all those who have had the right to holiday allowances. On the other hand, this does not apply to the 10% of employed persons who have so far lacked the right to holiday allowance. They are not affected by this, but now they will have this right. After that, of course, it will be 30% less than it would have been in the past. But this is definitely more equal than our previous system has been. One day's salary out of sick pay. It was said here that now, because of the little flu, we cannot stay home because there is no pay and the money is not enough. Well, I'll ask if it's okay. At least I've never been able to stay home with a little cold. I've been meaning to have a big cold so I could stay home. In addition, we must remember that this package will leave the back door to the unions and leave the back door to the workers if we want to agree on things and if we want to maintain a contractual society, which I think we should support. It should be borne in mind that this does not apply to a contract of employment. The Employment Contracts Act will remain in this respect. If a local contract of employment is concluded, that is what this law is now being done cannot be broken. A contract of employment can always agree on better conditions locally, what is defined by law or what has sometimes been determined by a collective agreement. Earlier in this Chamber, one of the representatives said that perhaps the next step would be to introduce rent regulation. It would be very welcome to raise the issue of rent regulation. Because we do not have rent regulation, it merely increases our housing costs and also housing allowances. It would be highly desirable to have rental regulation in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u249	Mr President! I wonder a little about Mr Tolppanen’s idea of the right of association to stay and care for a sick child. Yes, other unions have this practice than the Metal Association mentioned by Tolppanen. Among other things, my own husband belongs to Tehyy, and certainly he has the right to remain in charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u250	Madam President! I can afford to give up on this. In any case, metal was the first union that gave fathers the right to stay home and care for a sick child. It does not yet exist in all collective agreements. As a rule, mothers are allowed to stay at home to take care of a sick child, but it's great if they also get men in Tehy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u253	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u254	Mr President! The Government's communication on competitiveness measures has certainly been awaited with interest, since it is an important survival strategy for Finland. What has added to the interest is that no one is sure to know what is coming. We are ignorant, even though the government has held one press conference after another. First, the government announced a tough blackmail package to cut back on Sundays and overtime. While watching television, the government management learned about the effects of its package and decided to dismantle it. At that time, the statutory holiday money was replaced. The government was surprised that the extra statutory salary would increase costs in thousands of small businesses. Mr President! Finland is a prosperous nation. Finland is the rule of law. The foundation of our prosperity and legal order is that Finland's economic system is based on the market and contractual freedom. Freedom of contract means that working conditions are agreed between the employer and the employee. There is also freedom of contract that employees' and employers' organisations can agree on the terms of employment. The government will restrict its measures strictly, only taking care of the weakest minimum protection conditions. In the communications to the Parliament, the government is now presenting a model in which the law provides for holidays and salaries, the conditions for working. Decision-making powers are transferred from those with the best expertise and given to ministers who are in a good or bad mood. The rigidity of the Finnish labour market was complained about in the International Competitiveness Report published yesterday. The rigidity of the labour market is now increasing. Instead of making an agreement, pay regulation is being introduced. Mr President! According to the communication, holiday money, that is, the old custom of talking about return money, would be made legal and would be covered. In other words, those companies and industries that could afford to pay workers on summer holidays a decent holiday allowance in the form of incentives must not pay. Those who cannot afford to raise wages will have to pay. Other wage earners are cut 3 per cent of their wages, while some are blessed with an increase of 6 per cent. If I understood Mr Sipilä correctly, he once again changed, or so to speak, the government's position on the holiday money when he presented the communication. According to the government's proposal, the holiday money would be legal. They would have a ceiling that should not be exceeded by collective agreement. However, in sectors where holiday payments are not paid on the basis of collective agreements, they could still not be paid in full. In other words, legal law would not be a right. This confusion is a good example of a strong basis for the tripartite preparation of labour law. I very much hope that in the negotiations between the social partners agreement will be reached on measures to strengthen competitiveness and that these measures set out in the communication can be replaced by others, and that a broad agreement will be reached on wages, working conditions and unemployment security, as well as on the rules of local agreement, for example. The Government and this Chamber, Parliament, should be able to focus on the competitiveness measures that have a long-term impact: education, research and product development and knowledge, ensuring our knowledge base. This includes early childhood education and early childhood education services. I very much hope that the government will not end up dismantling a well-functioning subjective right to day care, which has guaranteed the functioning of the labour market, the possibility for women to work, on the one hand, and ensuring equal rights for children in early childhood education and, on the other hand, allowing a smooth transition from early childhood education to higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u255	Mr President! Over the course of today, we have been talking for a long time about improving cost competitiveness. I believe that every speech has been valuable, and of course it is up to the opposition to criticise because they have no responsibility for the country's economy. Why and to whom can it be shown that there are 400,000 unemployed in our country have been redundancies, relocation of production abroad, a shocking amount of debt, exports do not pull, the economy in the purse, that is, the money in the purse? We are all guilty in some way if we want to acknowledge the truth, and that is why the government is seeking to strengthen cost-competitiveness through five operational programmes, among other things. According to the Prime Minister, negotiations have taken place in May but the social agreement has not yet been reached and the negotiations continue between the social partners. The cost-competitiveness of companies needs to be improved. It is of paramount importance that companies remain profitable in Finland and that no further redundancies should be made. In the EU, unemployment is growing fastest in Finland. Why? We have not been able to compete internationally, exports are not pulling, and large companies have run off to other countries. We have a relatively high cost level for companies. The costs of unit work must be calculated in order to enable companies to produce. It is difficult to give up the benefits achieved, but now everyone has to participate. As the working time of a full-time employee is extended without additional money, the cost level of companies will decrease and competitiveness will be improved. The export sector also benefits indirectly, as costs are also reduced in the intermediate products it buys and in the services it needs for its own operations. It has been argued that extending working time would reduce the creation of new jobs. This may be the case at first, but at the same time competitiveness will improve, exports will increase and demand will create new jobs and jobs. The government must also dare to make painful decisions in order to achieve economic growth in the long term. In other words, the Government Programme has included a number of measures aimed at sustainable economic recovery as key projects. One package is these measures to increase competitiveness. What seems small is to compensate employers for the costs of family leave. The allowance is paid to all employers who pay wages during the maternity allowance period. This is a great relief, especially in women-dominated sectors, and will certainly improve the employment and equal position of young women in the labour market. Government action is being taken to improve the position of redundant workers. The unemployment period should remain as short as possible and during this period the ability to work and the skills must be maintained or renewed. Health services and the possibility of re-employment training are the means by which the person made redundant is employed as quickly as possible. In addition, the Government Programme provides for enhanced measures for the re-training of dismissed persons. Competitiveness must therefore be put in order, people must be put to work and exports, but this is not such an easy solution. Where do you find products that go beyond the borders of the country? It is good that a solution has been found that replaces the cuts in Sunday supplements, not just for midwives, but for all other low incomes, such as care and services, and for those who work on Sundays of a seasonal nature. This will also improve the profitability of the work done in addition to studying. While still living in that rural area, I would like to point out in a way the competitiveness of agriculture. For Finnish agriculture, the EU-Russia sanctions have cost 500 million, that is, the whole EU crisis package. The viability crisis in EU agriculture is affecting pig production, dairy farms and grain farmers. The problems are reflected in the entire food chain, which provides a livelihood for 300,000 Finns. Mr President! Only by working together and giving up something over the years may we enjoy a better Finland, when we can talk about a welfare state called Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u256	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Basically, these coercive laws stem from the fact that the owners of capital hold the entire Finnish society hostage. The tripartite tradition of negotiation has been thrown into a scrap heap and the situation has been swung so that the Confederation of Finnish Industries and the Sipilä Government are on the same side against the workers. Evidence of this has been repeatedly heard by EK's CEO, Häkämies, on the excellentness of the Board's proposals. The government has taken on the role of employers and high-income lobbyists and has given up the equal treatment of citizens. How do you ensure that the wage cuts you have presented do not leak to the tax haven islands through increasing dividends and options? How do you ensure that jobs increase while at the same time cutting down on job-creating purchasing power and competitiveness-creating training? A wise leader understands when he is beating his head on a rock and causing a greater problem. The big illusion of government thinking seems to be that the government only uses easily and unilaterally available information and ignores expert judgements that warn against the consequences of the unequal economic policy chosen by the government. Too narrow and distortive a view has come to the government because you have let the EK go too close and entered into an alliance with employers against employees. However, as part of all the history that has taken place in Finland, the Finnish employee has been transformed into a tough and uncompromising identity. There has been no unnecessary comparison of the club war as a symbol of Finnishism. At this time the peasants fought for their freedom against the nobility. I do not believe that the workers will accept this unfair treatment of the government, and the Social Democrats will not accept these forced laws that have now been put forward. At the same time as this debate is taking place, the owners of the companies roll dividends in their pockets and lay off workers, like the latest Nokian Tyres. Why should workers give up their holiday money if it only goes into the owners' pockets and not investment and investment in production? There will be a spiritual blizzard war that the government is instigating by its own actions. Is the fear of loss of interests on the part of the rich due to global demands to eradicate tax havens and tax refugees? Holiday allowances are part of the salary and, at present, in much more productive use as they go to consumption and to boost the domestic market, such as service companies, such as restaurants. In the process of recession, all consumption is beneficial. Employees also pay tax on their holiday money and on their sick days’ wages. Has the government even understood how great a gap you make in the treasury of the state and municipalities as tax revenues fall? What are the benefits of the holiday money and the sick days salary on the owners’ bank accounts? Large companies already have significant cash reserves. Why don't you make mandatory laws so that you can get companies to make more investments than pick up bills in their cash register? The economic decision-making power seems to lie with the owners of the capital, and the government of the country is on its knees. Mr President! I ask that the government withdraw from its alliance with the elite and give equal support and freedom to negotiate and agree with the social partners in peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u257	Mr President! Representative Taavitsainen developed special contacts between the EK and the government of our country and spoke several times even about the union against the workers. Such talks are extraordinary in our country's parliament. At the same time, however, in this debate today, Mr Lindtman revealed the role of the SDP in the social contract negotiations. Mr Lindtman said that if Mr Ihalainen had been elected to mediate in the social contract negotiations "then the agreement would have been concluded". This clearly reveals that the Social Democrats have therefore prevented the SAK from concluding a social agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u258	Madam President! Yes, a little sad when you listen to such an old - fashioned liturgy of young MPs. Do you know, Mr Taavitsainen, what world you live in? We live under the conditions of the single currency, under the conditions of the demanding single currency which Germany is running. We are living in constant global restructuring. We live under the conditions of digitalisation, robotics, mobilization. In these changing circumstances, we must build a bridge of employment in order to keep people in jobs in these changing conditions. We need to be a lot more agile. With this old liturgy, we are not helping any jobs in Finland. Come now, Mr Taavitsainen, to this more modern society, do not, as a young Member of Parliament, take the road to such an old liturgy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u260	Mr President! Yes, I know the world we live in. And in reply to Mr Heinos: this is not what Mr Lindtman has meant, as you said in your speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u262	Mr President! It is clear that the skills, such as those of MP Lauri Ihalainen, would have been needed to achieve a better result in these social contract negotiations. And I personally interpreted this speech by Mr Lindtman precisely in such a way that this process needed skills and skills, a better understanding of this entire labour market system, and then an agreement would have been reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u263	Mr President! I would just like to ask Mr Taavitsainen if he is aware of the fact that there are small businesses in our country, businesses with fewer than 50 people, some 290,000, or almost 99%, and there are some 500 large companies, or 0.2, which means that it is unreasonable here to claim that these small businesses are rolling and peddling money. This may be the case for these large companies, but it cannot be said of everyone. I myself know what it is to be an entrepreneur in Finland today, how many obligations they have, and they must always put new products and machines and other things on, so that there is not much money and dividends to be distributed there today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u264	Mr President! In response to the previous speech: just like that. That is why I spoke in my speech about large companies. And with regard, for example, to improving the social security of small entrepreneurs, I would like to hear from these government parties that the social security of small entrepreneurs is being improved, and not that the social security of employees is being reduced to nine days — as has been mentioned here in the speeches that small entrepreneurs will only be compensated for their illness after nine days. Even if I was working under an activity name, I would prefer to think that the social protection of small entrepreneurs from illness should be improved and not weakened by others.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u265	Madam President! It is true that Mr Taavitsäinen's speech used rather beautiful old-fashioned rhetoric, and it is precisely in this debate that it is in order, because a significant part of the government's proposals are proposals to move to either the 1930s system, the 19th-century system or even the solutions that were used in this society in the 17th century. On the other hand, references to the age of a person and the annulment of speeches on that basis do not have the appropriate language for this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u266	Mr President! I meant that young people will live in the future. Of course, from their point of view, this perspective of the future is very important. I was here in Parliament when it was decided to join the euro. I personally did not support it; the centre did not support it when we said that Finland was not prepared for economic policy, nor is Sweden, for the model that exists. Unfortunately, Finland has not been able to live as the single currency requires, and that is why we have let the costs run away, and partly because of that we have this unemployment in this global restructuring. I was trying to tell you that the world is changing very quickly now. Future researcher Olli Hietanen at the seminar said that in the next 20 years the world will change more than in the previous 200 years. Yes, we must see this change that is going on and try to be much more agile, much more innovative, so that we can survive well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u267	Madam President! With reference to this previous speech, it must be noted that there was no mention of accession to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u270	Chairman! That part of it went by a little bit, but here's just a representative. Fortunately, Tavitsainen then made it a little more clear that he meant large companies, because I myself wrote down here to myself that, among other things, the state and the municipalities are certainly not going to tax havens for this holiday money. But it's a good thing you made it clear, because your speech gave me the impression that you mean all the holiday money. Furthermore, when you said that with these measures the government provoked some kind of club war, I would say that the opposition also provoked it with its own speeches. Today, children's songs have been sung here, and the chairman of the Left. Arhinmäki has called members of the government financial criminals when the government program was presented, and so on, so it has been a bit harsh around here. As a new Member of Parliament, in fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u273	Mr President! Representative Heinose was so much so that the SDP publicly offered Lauri Ihalainen as a negotiator, but the government did not quote this proposal. Lauri Ihalainen's professional skills would certainly have been needed in this process. If that had been done, perhaps we would not be in such a messy situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u274	Mr President! I personally very much appreciate the former Minister for Labour, Lauri Ihalainen, and my speech had nothing to do with it. It is certainly true that his skills in this society have a number of different tasks and he did well in the job of the Minister for Labour, although unemployment in his period certainly worsened for reasons beyond his control. But I myself merely referred to the words of the Chairman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Antti Lindtman, in which he said that if the government had taken Ihalainen up or down, then the agreement would have been concluded. This can be checked in the Minutes, which words need not be explained then, by President Lindtman. That is what he said, and that is what we see in the Minutes. In my opinion, there is a clear link between the provision of guidance: do not accept it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u275	Mr President! Representative Heinoselle: will the government be afraid if this were the case that the Ihalainen could have resolved this situation better than you? As far as this is concerned, does the young representative have any views on the future, yes. We families with children have very great concerns about the future and the welfare debt, the education debt that this government is going to leave for the future. For us young people, Finnish society is not based on charity and the generosity of the well-earned, but on the fairness of society and the equal treatment of people. Finnish welfare has been made possible by the principle,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u276	Madam President! It is extremely important that young families with children are now taken into account here. It scares me especially if we continue this way in Finland, what we have been living for the past few years. We have more than EUR 100 billion in debt. The budget for next year will also absorb more than EUR 5 billion in debt. By the way, it's our kids who have to pay for it. If we do not put things right now, yes, we have seen good examples of the euro countries: what is happening, what has happened in Greece, what has happened in Ireland, what has happened in Portugal? The rest of the euro countries will put us in line afterwards and we will not be asked much questions. Those surgeries will then be much more painful than what is now being done. We need reforms. We have to change our working lives. We must remember that if we do not have profitable businesses, then we do not have jobs in this society either. That is why, although these things are painful, they are being done and we want to build a better society for our own children too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u277	Mr President! I do not think it is appropriate to get caught up in something that can be interpreted differently, but I would like to remind myself that it was obvious to me when I listened to Mr Lindtman's speech that it was precisely with Ihalainen's professional skills that a better result could have been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u278	Mr President! I'm not scared. Above all, we want to find a solution, and I think it would be great if we had an agreement and a social agreement that would evenly share responsibility among all the workers. Therefore, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä offered a social contract opportunity twice. Each time, it got on the rocks. Now there is room for further negotiations and, in fact, there is still room for a counter-proposal, a package that will achieve this 5% cost-competitiveness leap and then, hopefully, it will bring another 5% after wage moderation. We have fallen behind in competitiveness by about 15% from our central control countries, and that is why we must do this, precisely as Mr Savola pointed out, so that we do not leave our children's debt so rapidly growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u279	Mr President! When I spoke from a youth's point of view, I didn't link it to anything. I'm sorry if there was a misunderstanding. But what I said was that the world is now changing very quickly and this'stop the world, I want out' attitude that you hear here just doesn't work anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u280	Mr President! Mr Heinonen should ask Mr Lindtman himself before interpreting another's speeches in this way. For interpretations often give rise to bad misconceptions, and when these misunderstandings start, we are in a pretty bad node. But I too can declare in exactly the same way that if Lauri Ihalainen had been in the negotiations, the outcome would probably have been better.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u281	Mr President! It is a pity that Mr Ala-Nissilä has just left because I would have told him that tax havens are today and corporate dividends and redundancies are today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u282	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u283	Mr President! The strengths of Finnish society are trust and the ability to cooperate. This way of solving problems based on trust and agreement should not be thrown into a scrap heap, because in this way, trust and cooperation, we have been able to successfully develop Finnish society up to now. This was also the case during the last government term, when, in the midst of difficult solutions, almost all the most significant reforms to address the sustainability gap and strengthen competitiveness were achieved precisely as a result of tripartite cooperation. Against this background, some government parties' speeches that the time for consensus is over do not feel good. The fact that there is no mention of triangular cooperation in the Government Programme is not surprising, but it is annoying in its shortsightedness. We have now been appalled by the fact that employers' organisations have developed some sort of bypass. It seems that employers are being consulted, but workers' organisations are only being consulted when workers are on the streets for demonstrations. Mr President! We are in a very difficult economic situation and, at the same time, in the face of the challenges posed by the refugee situation, we have drifted into a short period of time into a policy of trust and cooperation on the path of blame, guilt and confrontation. The political debate paints dark clouds in the sky and focuses on sharing a scarce cake instead of thinking about where new growth and a new bright future can be found. It is difficult to find hope for the future in this debate, even though that is exactly what we should be doing now. Although we are living in an economic recession, we should not succumb to the pitfalls of mental depression. Madam President! The compulsory law package contained in the government communication is in serious conflict with freedom of contract and, in this improved form, it is also unfair. The cuts in purchasing power combined with savings for families with children, for example, drive many low income families to the income support hatch. People now feel that they have been treated unjustly. We Finns do understand the need for adjustment measures when they are fair and take into account the different financial capacity of our citizens. Despite good intentions, the Forced Act does not provide answers to the main challenges of our economic policy and growth: strengthening exports, increasing domestic investment, raising productivity and employment rates, or strengthening skills. The loss of purchasing power brought about by the package, a significant reduction in investment in education and employment and a climate of uncertainty will increase unemployment and not lead Finland to a growth path. Forced legislation runs counter to the principle of freedom of agreement and undermines future contractual policy and trust. Force should not be part of our social decision-making. The local agreement, which the government is seeking to increase and which I am very much in favour of, must always be equal and bring something good to both parties. Productivity does not rise by government measures, but by working practices and good practical cooperation, in the workplace. Productivity growth should be an important part of all local agreements. It would be a good thing if the government now announced that it would not be leaving to bring a package of forced laws to Parliament. This would be important to strengthen confidence and the climate of negotiation. The government must now support the negotiations between the social partners in order to reach a solution in a timely manner. As Mr Ihalainen said in his group speech, labour market policy should remain primarily a skill and not a force. This will allow us to return to the familiar, productive and secure path of tripartite cooperation. Let's not throw a Finnish trust-based contractual society in a junkyard. Madam President! I am also in favour of the conditional motion of censure by Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u284	Madam President! The Government's objective is to stabilise and improve Finland's national economy. This is in no way exceptional by any previous government. What is unusual is that the government is going to break the agreement-based labour market system, which has contributed to guaranteeing social peace. The government is looking for savings, but I do not understand what savings will result from, for example, a cut in holiday payments, when the Finnish Taxpayer's Federation estimates that the reduction in holiday money will lead to a significant drop in tax revenue. Purchasing power does not increase and it does not increase exports either. I am concerned about the situation we have experienced in Finland. Finnish contract freedom is violated. We're fighting about making up. It's never been a contract society tool. This confusing process confuses the people, also confuses the parliamentarians in this Chamber. This confusing process has, in turn, angered people in every direction. Reconciliation and harmony have been replaced by strife and the struggle of wills. We have heard good speeches today as to why the government should not implement this coercive package with its medical fines, salary and holiday cuts and the abolition of sacrosanct payments. I don't think the government's thought this through. Today we heard that little flu should never stay home sick. A lot of jobs, that's what it is. Here in Parliament, too, many people go under their heads to work and infect others. This shouldn't be idealized. A person who works sick is not a hero, but must take responsibility for others too. It should also be noted that there are, for example, those in the care sector who have an absolute responsibility not to come to work in small flu, for example for those who work for cancer patients. I do not think that there has been any thought to the end in relation to families with children either. Worried about the future of families with children, while the government decides to fine the illness, the government increases the fees for day care by about EUR 500 per child per year, even though the number of groups increases. The government will cut back on the salary and reduce the number of vacation days. The cycle is complete when a flu nurse accepts a small child in day care. Does the government understand the instability that this forced list brings? It's like opening a Pandora's box that won't be caught soon. Will the next parliamentary elections also include representatives of the government who, on the front line, promise more holidays or cancellations of the sickness penalty and so on? There are things the government should not touch. There is no point in stopping the world. The bill for the future must be paid for by our children. With too much action, however, the fall may rise. The well-being of our children, and in particular the weakening in it, will affect the future decline and the ability to pay bills. More day care for children because parents have less leave. When parents are less paid, it means little to children. There are alternatives — government proposals are not the only ones. It is therefore good that the negotiations still have room and time to change these solutions that are currently perceived as unfair.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u285	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä started his speech today because there is a very widely accepted fact in Finnish society that our competitiveness has remained 15% of our key competitors. However, it would be good to have clear comparable numbers for this idea, because there are also justifiably counterarguments and question marks for this idea. At least as important as looking for competitiveness in wages, social costs or working hours, it would be to think about what could be done better within companies, how to pull our exports off. The extension of working time is no answer, especially as unemployment is our main problem at the moment. The only sustainable solution is for us to have more products for which there is genuine demand in the world. So we must be involved in creating a new global demand for sustainable development. This needs to meet the challenge of climate change and the challenge of resource scarcity, i.e. to be involved in our own actions and products to solve global problems. A pioneering approach to the fight against climate change will certainly also bring new sustainable jobs. Here, if there were lessons to be learned from Germany and Sweden, among other things. In fact, the government's key projects are opening the way in this direction, which I consider to be a good thing. But is the list of top projects too broad for existing resources? Should we have focused on fewer things so that results could also be expected? For example, 300 million are invested in bioeconomy in three years, including one hundred in agriculture. Minister Stubb has said to the public that this investment will lead to either two smaller bio-power plants or one bigger one. This is not enough for the big growth impulses needed, and I fear that the efforts now being made will be wasted. We can't afford this. Hopefully, however, ambition will be higher. With public spending, we must always find targets that create genuine added value — new products, such as wood, increase the price per kilo for our most important renewable raw material. We must not confine ourselves to energy production or biofuels in new products. In renewable energy production, too, we must have a wider range of sun, wind and new innovations in our palettes, including energy efficiency. Unfortunately, the government's decision to increase nuclear power is a blow to these objectives. How much more could we achieve in truly new innovations if this investment was also spent on them? In addition to new products, there are other development targets within companies. During the autumn, I have had the opportunity to get to know several companies that have been successful not only with good products but also with good management. The hallmarks of good management have been that all employees have been involved in development work, that everyone's skills have been utilised, that decisions have been made listening to employees and that they appreciate their skills. All of this has happened under the current labour market rules. The necessary decisions have been made in the workplace. In the debate about increasing local reconciliation, I have the feeling that employers are not familiar with practices and do not know how far local agreement is possible under current agreements. Or is it the case that the only acceptable form of local agreement is the so-called 'preferential coefficients' agreement, in which the worker has virtually no say? Speaking of these rigidities, I have also been told that there are supranational companies in Finland with such a rigid employer that even minor local contractual changes could not be made, and there are no workers' organisations that have been holding back. I hope so when 15.10. This report on local reconciliation will be published, it will shed light on all aspects of this too, and we will be able to discuss the various aspects of local reconciliation and hopefully also on the basis of the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u286	Mr President! Finland's economic situation is challenging, and Finland needs a common agreement, but it must be done in different ways than the government has planned. If we are talking about agreement and agreement, then the other party cannot dictate or threaten, as has happened now. The agreement requires consultation and appreciation of the opinions of all parties involved and, through learning interaction, finding a common will. If interaction is appreciated by all parties, there is also a desire to be flexible and it is possible to reach consensus decisions. Especially in difficult times, Finland has been built by the power of trust and extensive cooperation. This approach needs to be continued. We have come up with many good decisions precisely by agreeing, such as the moderate wage settlements and the pension settlement that have been agreed in recent years to improve competitiveness. The government's dictation line has now caused a big mess, forgetting that the country is not run like a company. Moreover, the impact assessments of the various government instruments and the calculation of alternative costs have been inadequately carried out and the experts have not been sufficiently consulted. It is understandable, of course, that different experts will have different interpretations of the situation and its solutions, but the government seems very unilaterally to have heard from different parties. Unfortunately, the impression is conveyed to the outside world that there has been cooperation with the Confederation of Finnish Industries in particular. It is corny to say that these decisions are necessary. These decisions are choices. Even economic experts do not agree on these matters. In the opinion of the SDP, these choices are partly wrong and there are also many highly respected economic experts who agree. Productivity is not increased by political decisions, but by good cooperation in working life. The government also seems to have forgotten that productivity is being increased through well-being at work and motivation at work. Well-being at work and motivation at work are not increased by the proposals for compulsory legislation or threats to employees, because these government measures have been perceived as threats. In the social and health sector in particular, measures to reduce occupational well-being and motivation at work include proposals to tighten the conditions for rotation leave and the severity of the first day of illness. The work ethic of social and health workers says that when you are sick you must not come to work, but it is a great temptation to do so in low-paid work if you miss a day's pay. It is not a small matter in the low-wage sector, even though one of the government's representatives has said so here today. The consequences of coming to work as a sick person are easily more expensive than the savings from a qualifying day if the worker makes his workmates and patients sick. The government's message that we should not whine now has hurt many citizens. Since yesterday, I have received more telephone calls from pensioners and single parents, for example, that they feel very bad when so many members of the government said in their speech yesterday that we should not complain now, even though the government's decisions really threaten our own livelihood. Finland's strengths have always been knowledge and the culture of reconciliation. Now, with conscious action, the government is destroying both of these — with historical cuts in knowledge and dictating the agreement. In times of weakness, you should invest in strengths, not throw them in a junkyard. Mr President! It would be good for society to re-establish consensus and mutual trust. In order to make this possible, the government should understand that in Finnish society only by working together will the difficulties be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u287	Mr President! In fact, I was thinking of starting by complimenting the government, Then let's talk about what we do in other countries: We talk a lot about competitiveness here, and the government has managed to define competitiveness in such a way that Harvard and other top universities may already wonder what it is there in Finland. But let us look at Germany, for example, which is now being praised very much and often for a reason, and at the political decisions that have been taken in Germany. There are many things that are not the case in Finland. There are also things done for the benefit of the employee, not just the employer. In Germany, employees are involved in the decision-making of the company in line with established practice. So we can talk about corporate democracy. This will lead to a common vision between employers and employees. How about Sweden? There the right to participate in the decision-making of a company is guaranteed by the so-called co-determination law. How are the other Nordic countries? In Norway, general collective agreements are only formally applicable, despite the fact that there is strict control of working conditions, minimum wages and general increases. In Denmark it is easy to lay off, we know that, but earnings-related unemployment benefit is much better than in Finland. Mr President! The aim of the SDP is a contractual society in which things are done by agreement, not by coercion. Finland’s strength has always been unity and finding a common view even in difficult situations. In connection with the preparation of the Co-operation Act, it was possible to develop co-determination activities in Finland as well. However, this did not happen. Here we could learn from these famous rivals or peers, whatever language we want to use. Mr President! With regard to this theme, I would like to suggest that the government, which has now been refurbished by its new proposals, will also create legislation involving the representation of employees in the company governments. This will provide transparency in decision-making, increase staff competence, and, most importantly, provide a truly common view on difficult issues, even between employees, employers, even the owner and the government. The Minister of Economic Affairs, Rehn, among other things, demonstrated the readiness to increase the participation of personnel in the decision-making process of companies in the summer. As I listened to today's debate, I felt that finding this common vision, a common Finland, was not easy. Yet I am an optimist and I believe that the society of reconciliation continues and is still well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u288	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that the government is determined to resolve the problems of the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u291	Mr President! In response to Mr Taimela's speech, we have lost 6000 jobs in our region of Salo, which is now the last 1000 jobs, largely due to the situation in Nokia. In the wider Finnish economy, there was a lot to rely on one company, one product. It doesn't exist anymore. It is now very important that new investments, new companies, such as those in Salo, are created, and that is what we need confidence in the Finnish economy. Trust is based only on the facts that those investments are in favour of, that there is a future outlook for the success of the company, and that is why I would like this kind of readiness for reform also to be wider in the Social Democratic Party and that we could really also help similar localities. That is where the government is now taking its own action, the EU is also involved, but of course we are calling for such greater confidence in the creation of investment in the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u292	Mr President! Not only do we need the reformism in every region that has experienced these very strong structural changes, and we need the confidence that the representative has just said, but we also need the genuine deeds from the government. I would like to remind the MPs of the government that in recent years, for example during the last parliamentary term, when we had Lauri Ihalainen as Minister of Labour, we have received various contributions, which of course also included the EU Globalisation Adjustment Fund, about 20 million in our region. They have been of great importance to our employment and employment budgets, to pay subsidies, to everything else. Of course, I hope that this government will make a similar contribution to this situation. At the moment, it seems that there will be no similar efforts, but, of course, in the amending budget, the government will also have the opportunity to give the Salo region more than reformism and confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u293	Mr President! One reason for Nokia’s collapse was poor management, not so much paying sick pay or paying holiday money. Today, in the last debate, we have talked a lot about raising productivity in companies with good management and also focusing on well-being at work and listening to staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u294	Madam President! I do not believe that these difficult times have come as a great surprise, nor do I believe that it has come as a surprise to the citizens that something must be done. It is hardly surprising that we have to make those painful decisions, we have to make cuts. We've been living over the money for the past seven years. We have more than EUR 100 billion in debt, and the budget for next year is partly on additional debt, and simply this path cannot continue. In this previous debate, we talked about the impact this will have on young people, the impact this will have on children. At least I would not want to leave behind a society in which our children have to pay their debts and suffer for not having the courage to make decisions. Madam Speaker! There were two attempts at a social contract. It did not lead to a result. Of course we would all have liked to have been able to agree together, jointly to conclude and, through the social pact, to promote this leap of competitiveness. But it didn't work out, it didn't work out, so the government has to act on the possibilities it has. I think it would be irresponsible if the government were to do nothing now, drop the poor and allow time to pass and see what happens. We would just go deeper, we would be in debt, and then the other euro countries would tell us what to do, and that would be a cold ride if anything were to happen. So what do we do now? Holiday allowances are the one thing that is being addressed, 30% of them out. This was not initially found in the choice of means, but was the option at first to cut overtime. I'm glad we found this option. After all, this is an issue which, however, affects people more fairly, and at least I have not received any criticism on this issue. Yes, people understand that pinching is a good thing, and this is perhaps one of the most painless ways to intervene. This absence of the first day of illness: I have been thinking about it myself, in a way to blame employers for this becoming unpaid, what kind of responsibility is it only for that employer? In any case, this will cost you, if you are out of work, you will have to get replacements, you will have to do those jobs anyway, so the employer will have to pay for it anyway. Perhaps there is also a sharing of these costs between the employer and the employee. This is not a nice decision, but it is also one of the things that must be done. The holiday payments are made from 38 days to 30 days. When you talk to foreign acquaintances, we have quite a few vacations, and it may even be reasonable to shorten them a little. A throw was thrown here as to whether the MPs of the government parties are promising more in the run-up to the next election. At least I will not fall into it as I did in the run-up to the last election, when I said that otherwise there will be no easy times and these unfortunate decisions will only come. Madam Speaker! There are good things. We want to share the cost of parenting, EUR 2500 to compensate the mother's employer to promote the employment of young women. That is something that will finally and finally be changed and addressed. There has been a very special focus on the dismantling of bureaucracy and there is a desire to dismantle the unnecessary standards that prevent employment. I just want to say at the end that these are not easy decisions. It would be nice to share all the good things for everyone and enough and much, but this is sometimes the sharing of scarcity. Sometimes you just have to grow that cake and not just share it. We Finns can handle this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u295	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I was wondering today what I'd talk about. All these cuts and the good and bad things have probably already been done here, and I thought I should tell you how I felt about this first reading of the budget, these first days and the handling of this communication. I would like to raise a few group statements here. The SDP's Ihalainen pointed out that there is currently a climate of blame, guilt and confrontation. Well, that is where I said before that, at least I do not see the opposition working in any way to ensure that there is no such atmosphere. There will be a lot of very bad throwing, and often I do not think it is appropriate. He also raised the issue of freedom of contract, which has been very much discussed here today. We have a lot of legislation where there is a situation that people cannot reach an agreement. What do we do? We've made laws. They are, in that way, the solution to the agreement that if you do not reach an agreement, then the court will decide on it under this law, and it does not actually have a beak to knock on. These include, for example, the law of law, the law of marriage, the law of succession and consumer law. We are going to deal with agreements afterwards in these laws. I understand, of course, the well-established freedom of contract that we enjoyed and, of course, I hope that it will come about. But I do, as others have said here, that if there is no agreement, then the government will not be able to stand up straight. Nor do I understand the idea that this freedom of contract could under no circumstances be interfered with. Somehow I think that, when we have an independent state, there cannot be things within our borders that the legislator has no way of reacting to. The speech by Mr Ihalainen was, by the way, terribly well-founded and very well-founded, and I thank him for that. The Greens said that we are here in an unskilled country, and they would have financed these training cuts by, among other things, abolishing or cutting the kilometric allowance and reducing the tax deductions on commuting expenses. This would, of course, increase the cost of doing the job, since commuting and driving would then remain for the worker to be paid for. On the other hand, I also think that all people need to be over-educated: if they do not require such a degree for that profession, then why do we have to force ourselves to require too high a degree? I myself am the generation that, since I was 15 years old, I have worked in different ways, and it was not difficult then, because there were no specific types of driving licences required for every issue. We could sometimes think about that, too. The Greens also said that the social partners should be able to negotiate. This is what they have always been wanted to do, and it is still to be expected. The left was already the funniest or the saddest. Paavo Arhinmäki said that Timo Soini has said that the worker has earned his salary, and now it doesn't matter. I'm not Timo. Soin has been told anywhere that the worker has not earned his salary. Now the government has made certain proposed cuts and is bringing certain laws. I think this is a distortion. I've never heard anything like this before. Besides, I was thinking more of a children's show SpongeBob: when SpongeBob is squeezed, anything can come out. At the beginning of the government journey, he accused the ministers here of being financial criminals, and now he was singing in the hall today. At least as a new MP, I got the feeling that we're here mostly in kindergarten. Christian Democrat Räsänen was very reasonable and announced that they support the views of the government. He was well aware of this idea, even for lawyers, that a lean settlement would be better than a fat fight. Indeed, I have been in many places in the Chambers and have been in contact with prisoners and patients with dementia, and I do hope that there will be some more meaningful discussion in Parliament at times. There may be humor and throwing, but somehow it feels like if people sing and rumble around here, it's a little bit strange to me. Then I would have said a few words about constitutionality. This case has never been the case before that such changes have been made to the Employment Contracts Act, so the interpretation-plan is therefore new and there is no clear precedent to be set, so we expect the interpretations of the Constitutional Committee when they come in, and we do not say in advance that they are unconstitutional. No professor can do that either, because he's never seen one of those shows. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u296	Madam President! To that extent, I would like to comment on this previous speech that it is part of a good legislative culture that those responsible for legislation are trying to anticipate possible constitutional problems. And if such anticipating has not been done or has been done very carelessly, it is, of course, particularly problematic when it comes to something for which there is no established constitutional interpretation. Of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is only doing a final, up-to-date interpretation of the subject, but we cannot bring the whole legislation down on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is true that officials, and the government in particular, can take little responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u297	President! At no time did I say that the debate should not take place, but I said that I would like it not to be argued that this is not constitutional. That is what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u298	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u299	Madam President! Finland and the world are changing, and that is why we too need to change. The young generation is living in this transformation, including in the transformation of working life and the labour market. Long, life-long careers are no longer today. Work is changed, jobs are changed, employment relationships and entrepreneurship vary and alternate. Our system must adapt to this constant change, both the labour market system and the social security system. The Government's competitiveness package is based on the fact that improved competitiveness will undoubtedly help create new jobs in the long term. In Finland, the working-age population is constantly decreasing, but we still have youth unemployment at a very high level. For example, in my country, Central Finland, it was 32.5 per cent last summer, which is relatively high. Years ago, a huge number of jobs were said to be freed up by the retirement of the baby boomers. This has not happened, however, and, unfortunately, this prolonged economic downturn has led to the fact that there is no longer any new recruitment to replace the retired worker and, in particular, companies, even growth-oriented companies, necessarily hiring young people to work at a time when exports do not take place abroad. However, hiring a new employee is always a risk and a certain kind of investment for the company, and now this competitiveness package is also aimed at lowering this threshold. High employment rates are the best protection for young people, and with these measures to improve competitiveness, those who are in a happy position to have a permanent job or have a job will also compromise the labour market for future generations, so that more and more people will then be able to get work in the future. Mr President! I would like to thank the government for taking this competitiveness package in the good direction of these Sunday and overtime allowances. As far as equality is concerned, I would particularly like to thank you for this example of equality, in which the compensation of the costs of parental leave with this EUR 2500 lump sum compensates for the inequality that exists in the labour market, especially for young women. It is a step in the right direction. It is a good thing that this objective is now moving forward, although, unfortunately, it has to be said that the male-dominated labour market has been trying to slow this down for years. But now it is moving forward, and I believe that this balancing of the costs of parental leave will make it easier for young women to work and thus improve the lives of young families.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u300	Mr President! We have been talking about this sharing of the cost of parenting and about EUR 2500, which in itself is a positive thing. But when this government had to dismantle the various standards, I will stay and ask what will happen to the present compensation system that will pay far more for these costs than this EUR 2500. Will these both remain in force, do we have a double compensation system, or how will we proceed from now on? And if you think that the cost of motherhood has been tens of thousands according to different calculations, then that EUR 2500 will not be enough to cover them. I therefore hope that the cost-based system that we still have can continue. Ladies and gentlemen! In my group's speech, Mr Ihalainen said wisely that labour market policy should be focused on skills, not on power. But now it seems that somehow, in this society, when skills run out, the use of force will increase — whether it is labour market policy or other forms of interaction — which is seen as different extremes, for example. In view of these government laws of force, coercive laws, the government hastily justify its proposals. Decisions must be made immediately, we must strengthen competitiveness immediately, and yet, despite this, the Government's actions have been thought to come into force in 2017, so not immediately, not so quickly. That is why it is good that the negotiations should continue so that these deformed proposals can finally be eliminated. If we think of the big change that is taking place in the government’s proposals, then there will again be the deregulation. The government is now adding the maximum to the minimum, and it is one of the instruments that stiffens our labour market. The government’s planned Sunday payment became a holiday money cutter, and it certainly shares this burden more fairly and widely. But with this mechanism, the government is directly involved in wage formation. Holiday pay has been part of the salary. It's just an agreement to return from vacation. And I think this is going to be quite a mess, because those allowances are not the same in all collective agreements, they are not all determined in the same way. If we consider, for example, the various percentage - paid commissions that have so far not been covered by these compensations, how is that period of time there defined? All I'm saying is that there's a lot of work to be done by lawyers, that there's a form of law that can really build this political will. But then a few words about this day of sickness. I think that is the saddest part of this package. The government's own estimates, i.e. the estimates made there as official work, and partly the calculations made in the EK indicate that the impact on employment is very questionable, very questionable, and they do not even take much account of changes in human behaviour. I come from Hämeenlinna. We first agreed that three days should be allowed to be sick by informing the employer. Sick days were reduced and medical expenses were reduced and we saved millions. After we increased that amount, the situation began to become more questionable, as it also prevented access to a doctor. So everything affects everything, but most of the time, trust is the one that works in the working communities. I got a message from an entrepreneur who said he had about 20 employees. He said he was paying around 1600 euros a month, and he was extremely concerned about this medical treatment because he said that he worked long enough to get his employees to stay away from work when they were sick, but in that low - paying industry, his fear was that those workers would come to work sick from now on. The EK estimates that there are around 10 days of absence from sickness and accident per year, and if we think of what this means slightly below the average wage, for example in the real estate sector, where the average is actually more than the average, but if we were to be sick by that average or just below: 3 times 3 days away, and the loss would be EUR 700. But the saddest solution is for people who suffer from cancer or rheumatism or some other serious illness that leads to the occasional need to be absent from work more often than the so - called norm of a healthy person. They carry an unreasonable burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u301	Mr President! I would like to say to that end of Mr Filatov's speech, in which he referred, for example, to those who have cancer or long-term illnesses, that I think that we should find a model for this kind of situation that, of course, does not allow every day of treatment to be a separate day of sick leave, but rather to look at the whole. I am also concerned about it and I see it this way. For us, the Finnish economy continues to be very challenging. The third declining year in a row, and even the most recent forecasts from the Ministry of Finance predict only a slight increase for this year, and the growth for next year will be 1.3 per cent. There is already a slight growth in the euro area, but unfortunately that suction has not been enough for us yet. In our case, the structures are quite a brake on us being able to join in the same growth. In fact, from the forecast for next year — 1,3 % — when you look at it in previous years’ forecasts, it is honest to say that it seems that in the five previous years those forecasts have been over-optimistic and have not been realised in that way. According to forecasts, next year, our unemployment will rise to 9.4% and even higher in many regions. These are the challenges we are facing. Why, then, are we not creating jobs? One important reason for this is that we are about 15% left behind in competitiveness in our key control countries, and that is what we are now seeking to catch up with in order to achieve a 5% improvement in cost-competitiveness, which package we are dealing with today. Then another 5% would come from wage moderation. Then a third 5% would be created in companies where we want to continue to create opportunities, improve opportunities for more productivity, and local agreement, for example, plays an important role in this. If we succeed in this as a whole with employees, employers and also with us politicians and all Finns, in 2017, the government has stated that there would be a tax reduction of around EUR 1 billion, which would focus mainly on low and average incomes. When these measures of the package, which are therefore limited in government action to measures that can be laid down by law, came to the public, I myself immediately drew attention to this very same thing, which has perhaps been the main cause of the debate, namely Sunday allowances, Sunday allowances, Sunday allowances, overtime payments. I said this in my own group, for example, that this is going to be unevenly targeted at the various workers. The nurses, the care sector, the police, the firemen and the commerce sector would have suffered the most from this, and I think it was sensible and appreciative that Prime Minister Sipilä and Finance Minister Stubb and Soini decided to change this and bring elements to this effect that Sunday allowances and overtime allowances would remain outside. I also consider it very valuable that this government now makes a decision to compensate for the costs of family leave with the various companies. This will significantly improve the employment situation in women-dominated sectors and will also offset costs in that sense. I consider this to be a very important solution, and also that the government improves the security of workers' change. These are the measures that have been called for, that employers are not involved in any way. Of course they are, and employers are also involved in the hope that these measures will provide more jobs in this country. Is there a better package? It could be a better package. Under the leadership of the Government Sipilä, twice tried to negotiate a social contract, it was not born. Even after that, the door has been kept open for alternative measures, and it will remain open until decisions are made in Parliament. If employers and workers join forces in finding other solutions to achieve this same 5% productivity, cost competitiveness, then, of course, a responsible and wise government will receive and adopt these measures — and, in fact, the labour market organisations will have much more access to these measures in such a way that responsibility is distributed more evenly across sectors and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u302	Mr President! How does representative Heinonen react to such illness when a nurse, on her shift, gets vomit from a patient with noro virus, and the next day is in the grip of the stomach disease itself? How fair is it to punish these people who fall ill because of their work, as Mrs Heinonen, as a teacher, knows how many different types of viral diseases they receive from children, i.e. because of their work, are affected and paid for their own wages? How, in your opinion, is this injustice possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u303	Mr President! Mr Taavitsainen gave a good description of the problems that arise here. Even if the will is to dismantle these excesses, there are simply so many diseases and working life situations that I think it is impossible to enact a law that would take account of these differences on a case-by-case basis. The only way to do this is to have a roof that, after a few days of ownership, would no longer have any ownership or something like that. Then it could come against these situations. But when Mrs Heinonen spoke about this aspect of women and Sunday allowances, I would also like you to take into account the fact that disease has a gender. Women are more out of work than men are. Then, if you look at people in different jobs, such as those in industry who work at the floor level, the disease is three times greater than that of employees in the same firm, and I do not believe that they are more lazy people or more slanting people. Simply, the work is heavier and leads to more illness. But there are many good examples of these assignments,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u304	Mr President! This issue raised by Mrs Taavitsainen, which has already been raised here, for example, by someone with a chronic illness who needs these treatments, is the debate that must take place then when the law is being drafted. Of course, such things must be taken into account, and if work results in illness, albeit for a short time, then of course it must be taken into account. But this debate is actually part of the process of drafting that law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u305	Mr President! I think that this debate shows in a very concrete way how little has been studied about the effectiveness of these measures to improve competitiveness, and I think it is quite right for the opposition to ask for impact assessments. Now here the government parties are trying to prove how, at the legislative stage, some shortcomings can be tackled. I think this is really a big thing for society, can we say that people can pay for their own illness, which is not their own fault, for this day of sickness, for example, in the teaching or early education, in the care sector or, for example, in the very consuming work? I think it is absolutely incredible what kind of soup we have got into, and I am still appealing to the government to come up with a solution that is fair and genuinely improves cost-competitiveness. Now we are in a situation where these impact analyses say that this is not going to happen, and that is why I think we should oppose this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u306	Mr Pakkanen and Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u307	Mr President! It is great to note that Mr Kiuru also pointed out that it is important to have an influence at this stage of preparation, but that is what the government is doing. It will make a proposal, and then it will go to the preparatory stage, and as an experienced minister you know that it will be in the hands of Members of Parliament. However, the SDP Group's proposal by day to move the whole issue to the committees and then start looking for the position of the Constitutional Committee now seems to be a clear time to play in this situation, and I also see that the SDP is looking for this kind of party profile-lifting, that it would look pretty good in that direction towards SAK, because next year there will be a Presidency game going on and there will be a little bit of this kind of game. But quite clearly this proposal is a good one, and then it will be discussed in the committees, and the law will be completed on time, and yes, we have to move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u308	Well, let us go over this sharpening again, that is to say, Mr Kiuru and Mr Filatov and then perhaps a few minutes for Mr Heinos.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u309	Mr President! I'm sure this comment feels really special. When, as a minister, I had to present to Parliament a different kind of legislation and legislation that should come into force, even before we could go beyond the beginning, there was a need for impact assessments. I think that Parliament's authority will be underestimated if we cannot afford and also dare to study these measures to improve competitiveness. Now it seems rather strange that the government forces have been stoked in favour of not even trying to see whether these can be implemented. We will then come back on the milk train later when we did not seek a common solution that everyone in society could endure and which would be fair. I am not surprised, therefore, that this has raised so much debate in public. This one-sided hanging on the EK armrest tells us,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u310	Mr President! As far as this committee is concerned, I think it is a normal procedure in Parliament. If we have business, we will consult experts in the committees. There is no reason to blame the games of time, because these laws are only supposed to enter into force in 2017. If we had listened to experts in committees for a month, it would not have delayed this timetable at all. But I think that the government parties fear that these problems have become too clear and that this would have made it more difficult to move the package forward. But it would also have provided support for the preparation of the government parties once they knew what the problems were.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u311	Mr Jaha, two more speakers have been asked, Mr Heinonen and Mr Satonen, and in these circumstances both have one minute. Congressman Heinonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u312	Mr President! The group president took another minute, I'll try to sum it up. — — — — Employers have, of course, taken full responsibility for sick leave so far. In fact, in this study, which was public, 17 percent reported having been on sick leave even though they were not sick. It is, of course, the unfortunate crowd here. I appreciate Mr Filatov's expertise and knowledge in matters of working life in this Chamber, certainly to the highest of all, and it is true that nurses, teachers and this type of question should be dealt with in this drafting of the law. Extreme situations, such as cancer treatment situations, as I said in that speech, are such that it cannot be that each treatment is a day of its own sick leave, but that there are absolutely solutions to them through the drafting of the law. I myself call on the social partners to find a solution. At the very end of the day, I would like to say that the impact assessment will be carried out in the normal way in connection with the drafting of legislation. Government proposals will be submitted to Parliament in the spring
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u313	Mr President! To put it briefly: if the social partners had been able to make a joint proposal so far, which has been tried three times already and the fourth company is on the way, then we would not be in this situation in the first place. So that is the background to what we are now in this situation, and it would be good for everyone to appeal to that direction when it is widely hoped that the solution will come from there. But then on this order of business: I too have been a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for four years and, as far as I know, it is not a prior inspection body, but it is the case that, when there is a legislative proposal here, the draft law will certainly then come to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will issue an opinion on it, and then it will be dealt with thoroughly. Now that we do not even have a detailed draft law, to which Mr Heinonen referred, among other things, by commenting on Mr Filatov, we cannot even take a position in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u314	We shall now move on to the actual speeches and Mr Kantola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u315	Mr President! Mr Satonen is quite right to say that the Constitutional Committee cannot take up an issue which is not in the form of a government proposal. After all, during the last term the Constitutional Committee was presented with an outline of how the so-called Orpo Task Force could perhaps move forward in the process of social reform. The Constitutional Committee was not in a position to bring this before it under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. We'll have to send a government proposal, and then we'll have to deal with it. It is quite remarkable that now, now that we have a bourgeois government, we are somehow faced with the imposition of forced laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u318	I would add to this excellent speech by Mr Kantola that the criteria for restricting fundamental rights in all textbooks in particular emphasise that the economic situation is not a reason for restricting fundamental rights. Therefore, if there are no other strong arguments for restricting fundamental rights, it will not be enough to do so on its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u319	Mr. Speaker! Finland needs reforms, and there is no doubt about that. The government has taken a number of different steps towards reform. It has also set clear objectives, very clear objectives, and this is new in Finnish politics. We want economic adjustment, moderate economic adjustment. There is a desire to make structural changes, substantial structural changes. Strategic key projects have been selected, and the strengthening of cost competitiveness is one of these that pursues this same objective. Why are they doing this? Because Finland is increasingly lagging behind its main competitors, in which these reforms have already taken place many days ago. Finland’s relative economic situation is the worst in Europe. Unemployment is rising all the time and is Europe's top priority. Credit rating companies have changed their assessment of the state of the Finnish economy and so on. These are the reasons why the government has gone to this. At the same time, the Government has also started to reform the Finnish decision-making mechanism. What matters now is not what is the means, but what matters most is that we achieve the objectives. This is a reform which seems to be confusing here in Parliament, even in today's debate, and especially in those social organisations. There is still a lot of desire to live in the old time that just no longer exists. The world around us has changed so much that it needs substantial reforms, precisely the reforms that are now being sought. Our decision-making mechanism has longed to be ventilated, and the stalemate we have had can no longer continue. Now we must all see that these reforms are needed and must be carried out, and we must genuinely put on the table all the options, the good options that have come out of today’s debate — and that is a good thing for today’s debate — here too. But I still think that the basic thrust has been too passive for reforms to be carried out. I would certainly like to see more activity from all of us. It's obvious. At the same time, it is also new that these issues are not being asked, and there are no questions of authority in the first place, and this should make it easier for all potential players to see that the initiatives and initiatives they take have real meaning, which is to focus on the fundamental questions of economic policy, which include concern and responsibility for the whole. I said earlier in the day that entities, economic entities, are not genuinely considered by anyone other than the parliament and the government. Everyone else has more or less its own interest at the top, and the whole thing gets blurred. It is only natural for the government and Parliament to bring all these together and then look at the whole from the point of view of the economy and employment as well. President! One more observation to this end of the investment. In addition to the economic recession, unemployment is growing, we also have an investment depression. This is because companies that create its economic growth do not trust that investment in Finland is worthwhile and that success can be achieved here. This needs to be changed, and the Government's proposals and guidelines also aim to increase trust and invest in Finland. When the question has been asked, where can we find the guarantee that these chosen means — or rather the objectives chosen at this stage — will lead to this desired outcome, then no one can give such a guarantee, but it is clear that if no reforms are made and no business distrust of the situation in Finland will continue, there will certainly be no such investment. And that is why the reforms are needed to mobilise the investment train and create jobs in this country. It is quite clear that this is how the economic mechanism works. Public authorities cannot create jobs here, but they will be created on that side of the industry. We have a lot of opportunities in Finland where global trends are taking place, and we need to take that into account, and we need to be on top of that. One of these is, of course, the bioeconomy in general and the new technologies, clean technologies. We are good at it worldwide. Let us make the most of it for the entire national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u320	Mr President! Finland’s economy is in trouble, and hardly anyone disagrees with that. On the other hand, there is intense debate about the fair management of the Finnish economy. The government is offering amputation as the only alternative, while the opposition is presenting a strict diet. Finland is threatened with becoming like a skinny joke to a horse that took and died just after learning to get along without oats. Finland will not succeed in a global low-cost labour market by reducing the cost of work by 5 or even 15% — 85% could be enough, perhaps. In order to restore the competitiveness of Finnish services and products, we need to improve the quality of Finnish products and services and the productivity of Finnish work. Mr President! The development trend of Finnish labour productivity and total productivity has been negative for over 20 years. By the way, Nokia’s difficulties are reflected in productivity statistics as a thorn in 2008, and the trend has continued straight down. Traditionally, collective bargaining has divided the fruits of productivity growth between labour and capital. There has been nothing left to be shared since 2009, on the contrary. Both labour productivity and total productivity have fallen, with negative developments. As taught in the basic course of the manufacturing economy, productivity will be increased by investing, not by lowering wages, not by extending working hours, but by investing in tools, skills and operating methods. If the government genuinely wants to improve competitiveness, it should do everything in its power to encourage employers to invest in productivity. For example, business taxation in Estonia encourages keeping the money in the company and investing instead of paying dividends. The most important of these investments are operating methods, because if new tools do not change operations, the result will easily be a so-called productivity improvement. The productivity paradox means that investment in work equipment will lead to a fall in productivity. For example, the productivity paradox was seen in some factories in the 1980s where investment in IT had been made, but labour productivity declined dramatically. The explanation was that information technology will only increase productivity if it allows for new approaches, otherwise it will result in automated inefficiencies. Indeed, the trend in Finnish labour productivity has been negative for over 20 years, throughout the time that computers have been carried to Finnish workplaces. Finland is possessed by the national productivity paradox. This is the reason for the loss of competitiveness of the Finnish export industry, not in wage increases for Sari Nurse. Our pay levels are not higher than those of our competitors; our working hours are not shorter than those of our competitors. By contrast, Finnish working hours produce less than in competing countries. Our productivity has fallen short of the rival countries. The challenge for the government is therefore to find ways to encourage companies to make a genuine digital leap, to radically reform their operating model and their business model through new technologies, if and when they do not understand it themselves. And the productivity of the public sector, it is even more difficult to tick. We do not even know how productivity has developed in the municipalities and the state. Why not? Because: Statistics Finland no longer even statistics public sector productivity — for reasons of savings. And that savings will be borne by the previous one and not by this government, let it be acknowledged. How are we supposed to stop the debt of the state and the municipalities if we do not even have any idea how the public sector is working? It then digitalises the production of public services. This is no longer like the story from Laihia, it's like the story from Foolölä. Mr President! What about the quality of Finnish products and services — the quality for which we are prepared to pay the price of Finnish work? The development of quality faster than the competitor countries requires better research and better training than the competitor countries, enabling the famous innovations, product innovations, production innovations and business innovations. Education and research are national investments, from which savings are retaliatory, expensive. And what does the government do? Reduces the number of university degrees and cuts research appropriations. Finland rose from the recession of the 1990s by investing in knowledge, education and research. Now, for some reason, the government does not want to use this recipe, which has been found to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u321	Mr President! To this one, as a farmer’s hostess, it is funny that they always want to take such a fun example of that skinny horse that died just when you learned not to eat. We still have a few barns in Savo with live cows, and in my opinion, in this situation Finland is more of a cow that died when too much flour was given to it. It was blown. Then the spirit will go forth, and no further steps will be taken. And no matter what the animal is, now that this government is doing, you might think that we are now looking for new pastures. These pastures have been eaten, and now we have to move those yarns in order to have new food. But then there is the point and the point that Mr plant has also made in his speech: he criticises the failure to digitise public services. There are also good examples of successful digitisation of public services: Kela and the Tax Administration. Very effective solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u322	Mr President! I think this is incredible in some way. I think we should now admit that even the OECD considers Finland's competitiveness leap in the 1990s to be a success precisely because we invested in knowledge. I find it extremely worrying that when we build a competitiveness leap, we do not make it a knowledge leap. The idea that these means are in some way out of date or that they are somehow unusable in this time, that new tools are needed now — I think it is a terrible bad thing to let people understand that it makes no sense to invest in knowledge. It is the only way in which, even during the recession in the 1990s, Finland found out that we did this leap of knowledge. And that is how I felt that Mr Plant was right that at the same time we should not make a crazy jump back when we should really do the knowledge leap that would certainly come back. One-euro investment in research
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u323	Mr President! We now had to intervene in this debate. It is not that Finland loses its expertise overnight in 2008. Since then, we have endured this misery and will continue to endure if nothing is done about it. This level of competence is no worse than in Germany, it is no worse than in Sweden, but our competitiveness has gone. The level of competence is not lost in one year, and it has been kept in Finland at a good level compared to our competitor countries. However, the problem is that the value of the euro is determined by Germany, the largest economy in the euro area. Sweden has its own monetary policy, and in recent days we have read about these incredible negative interest rates on which Sweden keeps its own competitiveness up. It is totally contrary to economic theory, but Sweden has once again succeeded in doing so. And this has become that when Finland has done nothing, we have lost competitiveness when others have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u324	Representative Heikkinen and then representative of the plant, and then we will move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u325	Mr President! In that previous speech I referred to this blow-up cow, and by that I mean that we have been debt-recovery from 2008 to 2014 of EUR 57.5 billion, EUR 23000 per household. We have seen that this road has now been completed. That is why we must look for new solutions. It is today's theme in this Chamber: what new medicines are we going to find for a very sick man in Europe, that is, Finland? They're no longer enough, they've been used up, they didn't work. It is wisdom to seek new solutions even if they are painful. And so it is in that hospital that it hurts at first, but often it helps.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u326	Mr President! Everyone is aware that world change is very rapid at the moment, but we forget that it is accelerating at an exponential pace. Future researchers say that in the next 20 years the world will change as much as in the past 200 years. It may as well be said that in one month the world will change as much as it did in the previous year, and this will mean that knowledge will grow old very quickly if it is not constantly used. In the past, two, even three, skills have survived their entire careers, but in the future one can never be able to keep up with their tasks all the time, but one must constantly learn new things and that knowledge and old achievements will expire in months, not decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u327	Let us move on to the actual speeches. Here is the next representative Vartiainen — gone. Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u328	Mr President! The Government's competitiveness package and actions to increase work are necessary because we want to maintain and save Finnish well-being. By listening, the government has shown that there are alternatives, but we cannot fail to do so. The opposition, on the other hand, has not been consulted today on the real options, and only 'no' has been heard. The government’s decision to replace the cuts in Sunday allowances and overtime payments by reducing the holiday allowance was a welcome solution. This would have been particularly targeted at workers in women-dominated sectors, while cutting holiday money is more balanced. This is where the opposition says that purchasing power is weakening. Have you not at all thought that then the purchasing power will only really weaken if Finland's competitiveness is not immediately improved and if new jobs are not quickly created for Finns? The government deserves special commendation for strengthening the labour market position of young women and opportunities for permanent employment. We have been working on this for a long time and this decision has been awaited. Equalisation of the cost of family leave will improve women's career opportunities and create real, genuine equality of opportunity for working life. This decision will promote growth and employment opportunities in women-dominated sectors, which is very welcome in this situation. Finland cannot afford to miss out on the contribution of our increasingly educated women. It is in everyone's interest that in the future this decision will enable the employer to employ the most competent and competent persons, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u329	Mr President! Mr Vikman's request for alternatives: I have already written and talked about this toilet several pages of texts. I am happy to send these, but now that the government's initiatives are on the table, I will concentrate on them in this speech. The government has been accused of trying to bring us to the end of the 19th century society that Mr Vanhanen was already looking for in the spring. This is not entirely true, however, because some of the key proposals go even further, namely the 18th century. At that time, the maximum wages, the maximum wages, were in use in Finland. Since the end of the 17th century, when wars and disappearances had taken up one third of the population, there was a shortage of labour, which the government then sought to resolve by setting maximum wages, so that wages would not go up too much. When this, in turn, caused all kinds of murmuring and even a flight of living standards to Russia, this matter was solved by maintaining the vagabond laws which prevented movement and the obligation to take up work — something which, in fact, the government programme is going to tighten further — which prohibited any commoner from being without a pay relationship. Well, although the government continues to rely on these 18th-century reforms, there have been quite a lot of significant innovations in Finnish society since then. We have new exciting issues such as democracy and human rights, economic and social sciences, a hundredfold increase in labour productivity—things which, in the light of these performances, have been completely ignored. The right to TES, collective agreements, has not been created by chance, nor is it the same thing as the general commitment to which it is often involved in this Chamber. The right to collective agreements has arisen over the last 100 years from the observation that if we only have an individual employee and an individual employer to agree on the terms of employment, the worker loses each time. That is why international agreements have decided to protect the possibility for people, workers, to agree more widely on collective agreements. I mean, together, not just alone. If we now adopt a mandatory law that prohibits contract of employment but allows contract of employment, then at the same time it is a law which seeks to strengthen the employer's contract possibilities, the contractual power over the employee. Even if these legal problems, which are contrary to human rights treaties, are not being discussed, in any case this is very problematic in our Finnish system. It is also problematic because, for the first time in this House, it is as if a regulation protecting the employer was being adopted — we have traditionally thought that this kind of interference with the right of contract and association is only possible in situations where there is someone whose interests need to be protected with such heavy measures. In labour law, it has been an employee. If we now assume that we are setting maximum wages, maximum conditions, this will require an interpretation of the fact that the employer is a weaker party to working life, a party that needs security, and this would indeed be a completely new kind of opening-up in Finland's current labour law system and go right to those basic points of departure. Well, I also talked about the problems of ignoring economic and social sciences. Personally, I am very concerned that all the initiatives that come from the government are filled with typographical errors, are full of conceptual errors, are full of miscalculation errors and have no reference whatsoever to the research carried out in this country or in other countries. In my opinion, this type of policy is irresponsible. It is contempt for our representatives, and it is also contempt for the people. I would very much like to see a move back to the policy of the 21st century, which is based on the idea of a 18th-century policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u330	Mr President! As far as Mr Kontula's so-called option is concerned, it has to be said that continuing to live in debt is not an option. We cannot leave the disproportionate burden of debt to future generations. In this debate, the option is one that implements this 5% competitiveness leap. Finland’s economic and employment situation has worsened further. Exports do not take place because Finnish work is too expensive in relation to our competitors. Too many Finns simply lack work. Decisions to improve competitiveness are needed immediately in order to create new jobs. Well-being comes only from Finnish work, and this is the responsibility of the government because the social partners did not come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u331	Representatives Mr Kiuru and Mr Ala-Nissila, followed by a reply to Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u332	Mr President! I think Mr Kontula very much opened the door to this problem of competitiveness. If this debate cannot take place in Parliament, then we MEPs will be on thin ice. I find it quite extraordinary that the only alternative to improving Finnish competitiveness is measures that have already been announced in the public domain. There won't be a leap. I think it is sensible and proper to have a debate on the impact of these phenomena in relation to the rest of the whole. I believe that there have been proper and good speeches. The blue-eyed thinking that this is the only option in the hands tells us that there is nothing to be done on such an option-free line. Not if there is no alternative society to develop. There is not just one government that has the only option that is directly from the EK pen. Yes, we must have the opportunity to develop society more fairly and fairly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u333	Mr President! A few chapters of this debt recovery could be said. In 2008, we had a debt of 63 billion, 33 per cent of GDP. However, last year it had doubled by 121 billion, 59% of GDP. At the same time
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u338	Mr President! Mr Vikman, the basic point of the argument is that you first get to know the argument you are arguing against. I have not suggested that Finland's economy should be brought up by an endless increase in debt. I have said that, at the moment, when Germany has much more debt than we do, debt is not our primary problem, but it has never been my option to make the economy right. Let us remember, however, that we have a tax leak, which, thanks to the coalition, we have not been able to deal with, between 6 billion and 8 billion. We have well-being at work for which we could do a great deal, 40 billion, that is, 40 billion at the moment. This country has the best know-how in the world to solve problems of well-being at work. If we do not intervene, then at that point we will have nothing to worry about with the economy, because these are such luxury money mishaps that, when we really start to get tough, no state can afford any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u339	Why don't we go a few steps forward and go back to the debat after a while? The real speech, Mr Heinäluoma. The haystack is gone. Congressman Juhantalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u340	Mr. Speaker! Somehow, in this debate, this increase in theoretical difficulties and their reflection, the unpreparedness of the government's proposal and the errors and errors of writing, when we do not yet have a single proposal here. I would therefore personally like to see more time spent on massages of this agreement and what would be positive about the possible agreement that the government is determined to reach but for which we have not yet found a sufficiently good match. The Government communication clearly states that Finland is a small and open economy, the cornerstone of which is the export sector. For seven years, our country's exports have still not risen to the level in 2008 and have clearly fallen behind the level of world trade. The success of our export sector is mainly influenced by cost competitiveness, where productivity and labour costs are at the forefront. In his speech, the Prime Minister explained in detail how the government four times, through the negotiation of a social agreement, tried to negotiate with the interest groups at least a common goal to achieve. At the end of August, it became clear that this movement was not possible either. When the Constitution obliges public authority, that is, parliament and government, to promote employment and basic services, it was the only way for the government to act in this way that has been displayed here today. I agree with what was said earlier here today by the representatives Timo Kalli and Seppo Kääriäinen and, to a large extent, also by Mrs Lauri Ihalainen. They strongly stressed the need for a climate of trust between the interest groups and the government. It always requires an open and reasoned debate, which seriously listens to the views of the contractor. Today's Chamber has been heard, repeated and also simplified lyrics and blasphemies, and is increasingly tied to its own bunkers. As far as I am concerned, I cannot agree with the part of the speech made by Mr Ihalainen, which glorified this past period, when Parliament could not even make a point of changing what the lobby negotiators brought to Parliament to decide. At that time, participatory democracy, as has been vividly seen today, was in the state of its government. That is why we are now in a situation where trust between the parties would be necessary. The government has been an initiator and patient. The emerging road between the government and the interest groups should be used for wider use in the coming weeks. In any case, we are now in a situation where the government and Parliament must feel their responsibility to correct our situation and unilaterally use the tools it has. Decisions and the execution of them are a necessity, but trust and the wisdom of the people still have time to replace them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u341	Mr President! I'm sorry to speak to Mr. Juhantalo if he feels I'm too theoretical. There are different political styles, and my style is rather theoretical. But that too is needed. The situation at the moment is that exports are, of course, also affected by cost competitiveness, but that is certainly not our first problem. Our number one problem is the export of Russia. If it worked normally, we would be 1% more positive at the moment, says the Ministry of Finance. Our problem is business competence, which continues to play far too much on large companies, even though the employers are SMEs, at least if we believe in the Tekes report on the subject. Our problem is also the wrong products. If we sell boards and paper to the world, would it be a miracle if, at this time, our products do not sell in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u342	Mr. Speaker! I am referring to this latter example. Among other things, Sweden exports boards and planks and exports a huge number more than we Finns do. Although it is such bulk goods, it is asked around the world and should not be despised for what the Finns know. As far as trade in Russia is concerned, I cannot fully estimate the amount, but I agree with Mr Kontula on that. This is very much a matter for Finpro and the Chambers of Commerce during this period of coercion. I agree with the part that Finland must maintain its expertise and know-how in Russian trade also in these circumstances. One day there will be no more sanctions, and then we will have to be in a state of shock and be ready to take over the markets that will easily replace our current markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u343	We're moving on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u344	Mr President! It has been well said here that trade in Russia, among other things, is one of the reasons for this difficult situation in Finland. That is certainly true, but, for the time being, when we are still such a small country that we are not able to decide the affairs of a neighbouring country, we must also see from this point of view this issue raised by Mrs Leppa, a new vision which seems to be lacking in many opposition representatives at the moment. People are being intimidated here by the loss of knowledge and vagabond law is being discussed, going to the 18th century. They are all things that, in my opinion, will not bring about this new prospect. There are, however, a few statements by the opposition that inspire confidence. I think that the representatives of Ihalainen and Skinner have made some excellent speeches today, and I would like the opposition to present constructive proposals of that kind to the government. They have the opportunity to build trust and cooperation on the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u345	Mr President! An interesting debate has been held here today. Today, I myself quoted that previous speech by Mr Ihalainen in relation to EMU, the accession of the euro, in the late 1990s. I was here in Parliament at the time. After all, the centre was not in favour of a rapid membership of the euro on economic policy grounds. Our position was then based on a chilly analysis by Mr Pekkarinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u348	Mr President! Just now we heard beautiful words about the employment bridge and the changing world. The fact is, however, that this week, too, we have been reading news of the termination of Nokian Tyres. 122 people are allowed to leave, even though this company has paid dividends to its owners for some EUR 735 million over the last four years. This is not a crisis attempt. How, then, is the employment bridge being built now?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u349	Mr President! At first I thought that I could say almost anything here when it is evening and the time is running, but I also get the idea that somehow I feel that the only option is to act exactly as this government has decided and that there seems to be no understanding of any alternative reasonable proposal. What I do not understand is that while you are now sitting on the fire in other people's pants, it is said that these firemen, who are needed here, are nowhere else to be found to extinguish fire except here at home, and also those who have not had the economic wisdom to the extent that they have won the Nobel Prize. I am absolutely annoyed by the fact that such Nobel Prizeists, for example in Finland, are being criticised in the same way that Fitch's decision to keep the Finnish rating in three A's, despite the fact that the government is further despoiling purchasing power and economic development through these oversized cuts — despite all this
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u350	And Mr. Ala-Nissila, who started this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u351	Mr President! I was talking about trust being important in the economy. It comes from facts. It does not come from our speeches here, but market forces follow what is happening in Finland. Not the President Putin can do anything to market forces. In Greece, market forces could not be helped. There was nothing that could be done about the market forces in Portugal. However, we must build this on the facts of our economic policy in this change. Mr Taavitsainen is right that of course I am talking about teamwork, that we all need to be involved. This dividend-sharing policy must be reasonable and reasonable, but of course companies, if they are not in a position to invest in Finland, then the money easily goes into dividend-sharing. In this sense, too, when Finland creates the conditions for investor confidence, it is likely to bring this moderation into this dividend-sharing policy, which, as I understand it, should be highlighted as one of the elements here when the agreement is being built on Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u352	Mr President! I cannot refrain from commenting now on Mr Kiuru's previous speech. I understand that, apparently, the purpose is simply to collect statistics. If Mr Kiuru claims that the government does not accept any proposals but is strict in its own direction, it is not true, because the government has taken them, and when there are good proposals, it has changed its position. But today, in this debate, it has been said that nothing is good either, nothing is good. Mr President! Let's talk about these mandatory laws and why the government does these things. The government is doing this because you can't do nothing, you can't stand up straight. We have tried to negotiate, we have failed twice, we have almost failed for the third time, and yet the negotiations are still under way, but the government cannot stand by and watch. Many speakers have said that this is now a major interference in contract law, which is absolutely disastrous. But think about our labour market and the practice we have had in Finland. After all, we have universally binding collective agreements. These universally binding collective agreements equally force those companies, a rather large number of important companies, behind this general commitment. It's forcing. There's no other way. We can also talk about the fact that it is coercive. But I would not use this mandatory word at all, and I still hope that all these things can be agreed upon at all. Many Members have said in their own speeches that reforms are needed, and that is what the government is doing. Entrepreneurship will be promoted, incentive traps will be dismantled, local reconciliation will be increased, employment administration will be reformed, housing construction will be increased, standards will be dismantled, and then the government will have key projects. The reason behind all this government's efforts is to improve employment, as we have heard today from the Prime Minister — to improve employment, because it is an important issue for our economy, to reduce our debt, and now it is a question of 110,000 jobs. This is a tough target, but all these measures are aimed at it. But then our situation is that we are 15 % behind our competitors, and then the means have been put in place, 5 % plus 5 % plus 5 %. So this first 5% is now this legislative package, and contrary to what has been said in this Chamber that this 5% is now being cut out of wages, that is not true, because almost 2% is just indirect wage costs: 1.72% of the reduction in social security contributions, which will then be financed through a more efficient public side. This legislative package includes the Epiphany and Helatorstai unpaid and then the first day of sick leave, from which has become a very big babble. This is quite different now, depending on the position in which it is viewed. If we look at it now from an employee’s point of view, it is many times just as it has been said here in the Chamber that it is easy to go to work when you are sick. And, as Mr Heinonen said here, 7 percent themselves say that they have been very cheap, even though they were not sick. But then, if you look at it as an entrepreneur — and there is only one aspect, there are in fact many aspects, there are many different companies, but take an example — you take a one-person company with one employee. When this one worker is on sick leave — and now I am not talking about that first day, but it is also important — at all, it has 100% of its workforce out of work. 100% of the labour force is out. If you take a company with 100 employees and there's one out, it's 1%. Then, when you consider the significance of the first day of sick leave for a company, its significance is quite different depending on where you work. I would do well — I am not going to do this because I only got this idea a few seconds ago in my own place, but when the government accepts these good performances, I myself will serve here — to forget the lack of pay for the first day of sick leave and then to remove the pekkasdays, including all the rest of the sacred May Day. You could think of it on this basis. The game is still open here, as far as I can see. Mr President! We're running out of time again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u353	Mr President! I would like to thank the Government for its communication to Parliament on measures to significantly strengthen the competitiveness of Finnish work and industry. As many have already said here today, these reforms are necessary and very important in the current situation, because they can create new jobs and, hopefully, especially for the export industry. Otherwise, we are still facing more years of zero growth or even negative growth. But the example of Germany shows that positive developments are also very possible. I am pleased to say that the government has shown very good judgment and also an important ability to listen to the opinion of the citizens when cancelling the cuts originally planned for Sunday and overtime. Undeniably, they would have had a considerable impact on the level of pay, in particular for low-paid women-dominated sectors. I therefore believe that the change that is now being planned is a substantially better alternative to reducing the level of holiday money, and I believe that a clear majority of the people are also prepared to support a small cut in holiday money. The government also intends to make the annual holidays fair. After these changes, the maximum length of annual leave will also be six weeks in the public sector. The calculation of holiday days between the private and public sectors should be further harmonised. Today Saturday does not count as a holiday in the public sector, as is done in the private sector. A fundamental step in the right direction is also the decrease of 1.72 percentage points in the employer's secondary costs. Although the cost of employment is relatively high in Finland, the purchasing power of the employee is not necessarily particularly high due to high side costs and tight taxation. Now that the government, together with these reforms, is planning significant tax reductions, especially for low and middle-income employees, there is still very moderate purchasing power on the employee's future hand-held salary. Government measures also include factors that improve the security of workers' change. The 6 months occupational health care provided to the employee in the event of dismissal and the training allowance corresponding to the monthly salary are of particular importance. The compensation of the costs of family leave for employers with a lump sum of EUR 2500 is also a proposal which has been welcomed with great joy by a large number of parties. It will improve career opportunities, especially for young trained women, as Mr Vikman has just pointed out with merit. Mr President! I am prepared to accept the Government's communication and its core principles. In addition to the measures now announced by the Government, I would still like to see even more innovative measures in the Finnish economy and society that could benefit society as a whole. One example is the Estonian business tax model, where the tax is paid not on the company's accounting result, but only on the profit to be distributed out. I believe that this model would significantly increase investment in Finland as well, thereby bringing new jobs that have long been needed to our country. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to thank the Christian Democrat Group in particular for their constructive opposition statements. There is always a need for alternative views and, in particular, for such important decisions to be taken. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u354	Mr President! Over a few hundred speeches have already been made here today, both criticising and defending the government's efforts to improve cost-competitiveness. In any case, the truth is that if our companies do not run, no efficiency measures will help. I would now like to thank the Government's main projects for making Finland a pioneer in the bio- and circular economy. Making better use of Finland’s scarce natural resources in a sustainable way is in the interests of society as a whole. The large investments already decided and planned for the forest industry in the production of pulp and bioeconomy support this development. Bioeconomy is a significant part of the forest industry and its profitability relies on the collection money generated from subsidies. More than half of the energy wood is harvested from sawmill cuttings. Saws are also a major raw material producer in the pulp industry. It can be said that the supply of raw materials in the bioeconomy requires a vibrant sawmill industry. Mr President! I am talking here about the sawmill industry, because nobody else is talking about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u357	Mr President! It is a pleasure to listen to the speech of such an expert, represented by Mr Hakkarainen. It strengthens exactly what we were talking about a moment ago with another representative. Log, plank and board are undeniably such basic industrial products. I spoke to Keijo Kopra, the main owner of Versowood, a short while ago, and he said that it was just spring that competitiveness from Finland has been completely lost. Competitiveness was good last spring, and they have a constant success for by-products. They do quality work, just what Sweden does, among others, and Sweden has suddenly run away enormously from Finland. It is precisely what Mr Hakkarainen referred to: price competitiveness is currently lacking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u358	Mr President! Before I go to this speech, just a comment on this matter of logs and wood, that at the moment the pulp industry is doing very well. This is a good thing, and it is worth remembering that the Finnish forest industry has developed and that further good products can be developed from the pulp in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u359	Mr President! The pulp industry is really doing well, but the whole frame that is taken from the forest costs 70% of the sawmill industry, and the best raw material producer in the pulp industry is the sawmill, because it becomes the best product. It is not the billet from the top of the tree that produces the best raw material. Then there is the fact that we have also had the paper industry and Enso-Gutzeit, which is an international company. All these paper products have left Finland almost out of Enso-Gutzeit. Nothing has been closed down from Sweden and we are at the same latitude. The acquisition is at the same latitude, the market is the same. Sweden will be fine in this competition, but not Finland. What's wrong with it? Price competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u360	Mr President! At the beginning of my own speech, I told you what the situation was. And Mr Kiuru accuses the government of stubbornly sticking to its line. And Mr Henriksson here is now telling and in fact accusing the government of being prepared to change the way in which it has the same effect. If you think the opposition is not united, then what has gone wrong with this government? What was the government supposed to do about this? Could not Sunday pay and overtime cuts be exchanged for that holiday allowance? Right? This is actually a question for Mr Henriksson, because you blamed the government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u362	Mr President! I don't know if Mr. Turunen misunderstood me. It is a very good thing that the government withdraws from this idea of cutting overtime and Sunday compensation. That's a good thing. But the fact that, in a way, it was only discovered when two midwives were sitting on live television is quite remarkable. And that is what I am calling for the government to have good background for its own decisions. That is why I am concerned about this process. But it is a very good thing that it was abandoned, and I think it is the right way to go on the path of taking holiday payments. It's the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u363	Mr President! After all, it is very difficult to abstain in five minutes, when the opposition is already being challenged here by the government parties, who are not presenting their own alternative today, but asking how the government ended up in the package that is being presented today. Today we are dealing with the blackmail package of the government, and I think it is exactly what it means to be. The question from the point of view of trust in society, and the very serious question, is really whether future work-life preparations will take place, which, however, have traditionally been in the triangulation on the basis of collective labour law, so that we start to do business, each government, always here at the labour market table. It is a very serious matter and I really think it is inappropriate for the government to take part in the negotiating table, and this has been warned by the long-standing EK negotiator who has now retired that this government should not take part in these discussions. But the reason why this is being done is a source of wonder. We were already in a situation in 2007 where the demands of the carers for an increase in salaries led to the need for the political side to find a coalition of governments that would have entered into wage negotiations, which I think is very far-fetched when we look at the long line in which things have been resolved in the past. Mr President! It is quite a big question in that we have traditionally been able to rely on the calmness of society, the labour market and also on the trust that laws have set minimums, that this time we are in a debate in which we are genuinely in a situation where the Finns of Finland still have the portfolio of the Minister of Labour, we are changing this historical tradition in order to set maximums. We are setting a big precedent, and it is no wonder that there is a rather tough debate in Parliament about whether this is the right move. The big thing about all this is that when we want to do this to improve Finnish competitiveness, we have very different views on what will improve competitiveness and what will not. Well, if we look at the opinions of specialist researcher Pekka Saurano of the Finnish Research Institute on improving Finnish competitiveness, he states that it is generally argued that the Finnish gap between Sweden and Germany varies between 10 and 30 per cent, but Sauramo states that such claims are ill-founded because the indicators used on the basis of them do not say anything about the level of price competitiveness. When asked how bad this price competitiveness really is then, Sauramo said that comparing the unit labour costs of Finland and Sweden and Germany between 2000 and 2013 could very easily lead to false conclusions. Then you could say that the cost of Finland seems to be the highest of the three. But in reality we can also look at the reference period 1990-2013, and in fact the development of unit labour costs in Finland and Sweden seems to be quite different. In fact, it is then that in Sweden costs have increased by more than 12 percentage points in Finland. Mr President! With this I am simply trying to tell you that there are very many inappropriate, unwarranted allegations in the air, and I think it was quite right and proper for the former Minister, Mr Henriksson, to intervene in this. Yes, people must have the right to protection, and the fact is that fundamental human rights can only be tackled if we can see that these objectives, which are being pursued, do not arise by other means. In fact, this can only be done when it is not economical. In this regard, we are facing a situation in which people can no longer rely on collective agreements and, when they are born on the basis of international law agreements, workers are in a rather disproportionate position. On that basis, it is incredibly incomprehensible that the government has only gone to the table of one social partner and thought that this proposal will go all the way. I think it's right and proper to trust. As far as the word on which he has many blog posts is concerned, many public exits say that, for my part, I promise that in all my work I will try to implement reforms as fairly and fairly as possible. We have taken a long day today to ensure that these reforms are not fair and equitable for everyone. Two proposals have now been removed from the table, but one more law has been imposed. It is a great wonder, though, when people wonder how this happened, that the 3% wage increase will come to more than 200,000 employees. At the same time, some of the government parties here believe that this is coming, and some believe that it is not. It was not clear today from Prime Minister Sipilä whether or not he is coming. Finally, Mr President, after we have abolished the Kela levy, we have tried to make the cost of work and wages cheaper, and once again we have another package of nearly EUR 1 billion on the table. In that respect, it is quite a big question whether the 5% productivity jump and this competitiveness can be increased with this package. I think it is right for the opposition to ask this question, especially when we say that this preparation has been done in a way that no expert expert previously heard in this House by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs recognizes that they have these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u364	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that for the speeches that were requested before the beginning of the sitting, the maximum length of the speech is 5 minutes. For those who have been requested during the sitting, there is no such restriction, but there is also a recommendation for that 5 minutes. But it's just a recommendation. — And now the reply from Mr Turunen and Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u365	Mr President! Regarding the previous speaker's speech, a couple of comments on why these maximums are being drawn up. These maximums are now needed to ensure cost competitiveness and the 5% leap. But I would ask Mr Kiuru now that you said that the government cannot join the labour market. I wish, Mr Kiuru, that you would then tell me what is a tripartite. In this case, I am left entirely unclear as to what is a tripartite term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u367	Mr President! I myself have graduated as a nurse since the previous recession, and indeed these temporary jobs are familiar from one day to three days, a week or two weeks. It is in my ear that we are talking here about the loss of fundamental rights, but we are talking about rather moderate cuts in the rules of working life, rather moderate cuts. However, as a person in the care sector, I think and understand that all these measures, which we are discussing today, are only being taken so that we can provide in this Finnish society the right to the right fundamental rights, the right to good social and health services, the care of the elderly, the schooling of children, everything we have been accustomed to in recent decades and we have been able to raise in fat years. There's a different situation. We need to make a small incision to ensure that these genuine fundamental rights are respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u368	Mr President! I paid the same attention as Mr Turunen. Mr Kiuru swore in the name of the triad, but in such a way that the government would have no role in it. I can see for myself that we need a trialogue where workers, employers and also the government of the country are involved. Good results have been achieved in this way. I was surprised by Mr Kiuru's accusation that the government has gone to one table. I think it is scandalous and offensive to Mr Sipilä, who has acted in an exceptionally fine way here. He has twice opened negotiations on a social agreement and continues to keep the door open to an alternative agreement. In other words, only the goal of improving our competitiveness has been cut in stone. There can be a lot of other ways of doing this if the social partners can come up with this solution. Yes, I fully support our good Prime Minister Sipilä here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u369	Mr President! I have to say that when Mr Kiuru listened to what he said, I was very much replaced by the fact that they, the opposition, and especially the SDP here today, have not been making any proposals to correct our country's economy, but simply shooting down this government package and proposal. I think it's strange. Is it not already at the beginning of the constructive debate that, when criticised, something constructive is proposed to replace it? It has been observed that the opposition has not been able to do this today, and in particular the SDP has not been able to do so today. I wonder. Mr Rinne, President of the SDP, said at some point that perhaps in November we will hear some economic policy guidelines from your side. Why do we have to wait so long? Why can't we do it now? Oh, my God, it's been six months since the election. It was already announced that the economy would be set up, and you're just waiting. It's weird now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u370	Mr President! It is very clear that the government has joined forces with the Confederation of Finnish Industries. It has become clear, for example, from the statements made by EK's CEO, Häkämies, who has praised the government's performances as excellent. When Mr Kopra calls for these options: yes, the alternative is for the government to resign itself from the alliance with this elite and to enter into the right trialogue by treating both the social partners equally, both the employer and the workers, because by allowing the protection of the wind to the employers, the whole negotiation is watered down.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u371	Congressman Kiuru, this conversation has begun.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u372	Mr President! I did not start this debate but I was in the toilet to speak, and there was a challenge here, but I am happy to use this minute to present these options for us and say in this minute that we will come back to this, Mr Kopra, many more times here. We have our own process going on to conclude such a responsibility agreement with the people of society as a whole. I think it is important now to focus on the fact that, when you say here that the government did not take a role at the tripartite table by taking sides with either side, it is quite cheekless to say that because this has just happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u375	Mr President! I think that Prime Minister Sipilä, after the elections, very clearly and crystal clearly informed the whole Finnish society that everyone is welcome to negotiate and discuss how to put things in order in this country. It's an indisputable thing, in my opinion. I wonder. And of course I understand that: if the bag is empty of flour, it is not pleasant to participate in such a debate, and it is evident from your policy. Just an example of yesterday's referral conversation: Antti Rinne presented these export development measures and mentioned the reduction of the rail tax, the reduction of the industrial electricity tax and the abolition of the fairway charges as if they were now solving our export problem — the combined effect of around EUR 100 million when talking about billions. Perfect tinkering and a button shop. With these methods, Mr SDP, things are not going to work out in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u376	Mr Kiuru, you have now said in your own speech — it can be checked even on tape — that the government should not be party to the labour market table. I wrote this down. We can also check the tape, but I believe that you have just said this: 'The government should not go into the labour market table'. If so, what is the government’s role in the triad? That's how we're gonna need that clarification. Do you really think that the government should have no role at the labour market table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u377	Mr President! Representative Kiuru said that an EK performance has been expected — an EK performance has not even been sought. In fact, the government has not asked any social partners for their own proposal. Not the employer of EK, not the SAK, not the STTK, not Akava, but the Prime Minister. Sipilä has asked for a joint proposal to improve competitiveness in that 5. So the goal has been set and it has been asked that you make a model with which to achieve this. We haven't been expecting an EK show, that's why there hasn't been one. It has not been expected that the SAK proposal, not the STTK proposal, not the Akava proposal, but that there is only one proposal to which all Finnish employers and employees would commit themselves so that this country would be saved and more jobs created, and it would not be as it is at the moment that we are in a dwindling spiral of jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u378	Mr President! I think it was good and fair that you admitted this to the fact that the government did not want any alternatives for these social partners. This is precisely the problem, I was trying to formulate this phrase, which even Turunen here says, by saying that traditionally, once we have been in the triad, then we have had to listen to the views of these social partners on how to achieve common objectives by one presentation. Now it seems that the government
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u383	It's going well over the agreed time. Mr Heinonen again, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u384	Mr President! Mr Kiuru, you have just spoken about why the government has not asked the EK for its own proposal. That is why the government has not asked for a single proposal from any social partners, but has asked for a single collective package of workers and employers to achieve this objective, which we must achieve. Instead, Mr Lindtman said that if Mr Ihalainen had been made a mediator, then the agreement would have been concluded. And then the question arises as to whether the Social Democrats have prevented the SAK from concluding an agreement, the single agreement that would overcome this challenging situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u385	And one last reply, Mr Kiuru, and then Mr Keränen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u386	Mr President, we have been surprised today by the fact that the wing of the coalition – and I do not know whether it has been elsewhere – has been very much accused that we are not genuinely improving Finnish competitiveness and that we here are obstructing action. We have pointed out that this blackmail package is one that does not create long-term harmony and competitiveness in this country that would carry it. And I think it is wrong to be accused here and to be shown and even identified on these issues. Let us try to keep our tempers on the fact that we have agreed rules of play and trust that will lead this country the most forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u388	All right, and then we went back to that list. So, Congressman Keränen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u389	Mr President! Maybe the smartest thing to do is calm down and go to literature. Johan Ludvig Runeberg has written beautifully in his day: "It is poor in our country, that is why you will remain if you dig for gold." Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, there have been times in our recent history when Finland has not been poor or sick. The end of the 1980s was that time before the Great Depression and then again about ten years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems from today's debate that we have learned little from these times. It seems that a large number of speakers want to carry out that verse in Runeberg's poem: we are poor and that is why we are left behind. We are a small, five million people. There is no oil, no gold and no other digging in our soil, but we can't dig it properly and we can't sell it. Looking back at the rising recession in the '90s, we cannot ignore the crucial importance of Nokia and the IT sector. That's why I've been asking myself what was Nokia. Finland’s basic problem is the lack of export income. The Finnish product does not sell. Finland has no competitiveness. Without external income, such a small nation will not be able to sustain the wonderful prosperity we have had and have today. Mr President! The Sipilä Government has issued a communication on measures to strengthen competitiveness. I dare say that some of the measures set out in the communication are very poor and should have been avoided. However, they are only first aid, and they are in no way enough for the intensive care required to manage Finland's competitiveness now and also in the years to come. Mr President! I don't like all those things. There must be a lot of us here who don't like us. There would be an alternative to these measures, and the Sipilä Government has been waiting for it and has been hoping for it many times already, as was the case with the recent debatation. A social pact would be needed, in which both the government and the social partners would agree together on measures to prevent that final collapse in the poverty that Runeberg said. Many of us still hope that a common agreement will be reached. By agreeing together, it is possible not only to find this first aid, but also to find the long - term steps that can be taken on a sustainable basis. Mr President! I will return to my earlier question: What was Nokia? Nokia was, note, Finnish expertise and Finnish innovation. Today the Finnish product does not sell. This is certainly partly due to the price of the product, which the government is trying to influence through these measures. But the second and probably larger reason is that we do not have enough to sell around the world. At the beginning of that evening, I listened to Mrs Myller's speech and I thought it was an excellent speech on this very issue. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the only way to overcome the threat of permanent poverty in Runeberg is to bring the Finns back into innovation. Innovation requires expertise, and the Government wants to invest in competence through digitalisation, education reform and other key projects. Mr President! Personally, I still hope that at least some of these measures in the communication could be replaced by a joint agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u390	Madam President! Finnish companies have lost up to 15 per cent of their cost competitiveness in our competitor countries Germany, Denmark and Sweden. Today's competitiveness package is part of a logical package which it forms together with the Government Programme guidelines and the draft budget. All of these measures aim to improve the cost competitiveness of Finnish companies so that they can compete in international markets again. By these measures, Finland will also be returned to the country in which foreign companies want to invest. Finland will again be made a country where it is profitable to start a business, work and hire new employees. Structural reforms seek significant savings for public finances. The cuts recorded in the Government Programme are largely applicable to non-active Finns. The actions of this competitiveness package, on the other hand, are disciplining those in work. In addition, the draft budget allocates to the most well-off people various increased fees and additional taxes. In the same boat we are all; everyone participates. The budgetary situation needs to be improved in order to give companies a hand-out, such as the reduction in social security contributions as set out in this competitiveness package. The government must also ensure that these handouts really create investment and new jobs. The write-off of Kela payments and the reduction in corporate tax during the last parliamentary term fell into increased dividends. This must no longer happen; employers must assume their own responsibilities. Mr President! As noted in the draft budget, the government supports entrepreneurship, new forms of business and exports. Team Finland and Finpro, which promote internationalisation and export, will receive an additional ten million euros. Their work improves the conditions for companies to export in areas such as bioeconomy, clean solutions, health technology and digital business. These are areas of the future in which Finland can be a pioneer. Mr President! The trade deficit weakens our economy. Food production is now one of our most distressed sectors. The plight of agriculture is the sum of many factors, but it should be noted that there are currently 2.5 to 3 times more food imports to Finland than we manage to export abroad. If we want to maintain Finnish food production, the most important factor in this is the Finnish consumer. But if the only criterion for buying is the cheapest price, domestic clean food will not survive. However, when buying Finnish milk and meat, we can be sure that we will not get traces of antibiotics or hormones — or as in China: melamine went to small children. Cereals, berries, vegetables and other natural products are grown in a clean environment using clean methods. By eating Finnish food, you will not lose your health. We also have a competitive edge at international level, if only we can make use of it — something that Mr Keränen called for in the previous speech. Yes, we have something to sell. Too much bureaucracy is a major obstacle to growth or, at least, a major delay for many companies, including the agricultural sector. Our own bureaucracy is suffocating many promising business in the beginning. An illustrative example is the Sastaman fish entrepreneur who had made a deal with the Chinese. All the frameworks for Chinese exports were in place except for one. The entrepreneur struggled with his export licences in the bureaucracy jungle of the authorities, even though it may be about the increase of millions. It is clear that it should be more flexible to start exports. It cannot be that everyone intending to export must be a lawyer or an expert in the official machinery. Mr President! The Government’s objective is to clean up unnecessary standards and rationalise regulation. The central parliamentary group and the whole party field also worked towards this goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u391	Madam President! It's been a long day, and there's been a panging conversation. I would like to comment on a couple of things that have been discussed here today. The representatives of the SAK — excuse me, the representatives of the SDP — piously voiced the fact that freedom of contract now goes with these government proposals and universality, and so on, is like a pop thing and must be held on to it. It must be said that from the point of view of a small Finnish entrepreneur — and I say this with more than 15 years of entrepreneurial experience — what is free of contract for the SDP and the left is a dictatorship and a coercive power of the Ay movement. This so-called freedom of contract for the left is a way in which entrepreneurs are bound and forced to do things. But now that we have a member of the opposition in the Chamber, I would like to say something positive and praise, namely, I think that Mr Ihalainen spoke wise words earlier in the day. They are worthy of all of us to listen to them and to reflect on them when he talked about employers also having to take greater responsibility for their employees in large companies when local agreements are being increased. On this point, I fully agree that, in many respects, the practice in companies has been too cruel for workers to be valued, they are just consumer goods. More employees need to be valued, and when local agreements are increased, some guarantee must also be added to the employees, in accordance with the German model, that the job will remain when they work together in accordance with the employer's wishes. In my opinion, this was a great wisdom from Mrs Ihala, and I hope that the government will take these words into consideration as these things move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u392	Madam President! In this debate, many times this evening, it has been said that this is absolute, that there is only one right option. I think it is dishonest to say in this process that there is no room for other options, and that is why I wanted to speak again. It has been argued several times in the debate that there would be no room for alternatives, i.e. the government would not allow for another alternative solution to achieve this 5 percentage points improvement in cost competitiveness. Of course, in this Chamber it is only possible to discuss or highlight alternatives that can be resolved by legislation. So the toolbox is quite limited to us legislators, both the government and the parliamentarians. Of course, in the debate, we can also express various hopes to the social partners that they will look for these solutions. If there are alternatives of this kind that can be amended by legislation and made this package even fairer among the various workers, between the various sectors, then I think they are very welcome, and I understand that Prime Minister Sipilä has also said that they can be presented. The government has not beaten a stone to a goal, so no means. The objective is that we should keep this 15% difference in competitiveness in key control countries, and one of the pieces is this improvement in cost competitiveness of 5 percentage points, which we are dealing with today. Then at least as important is a moderate wage settlement that would achieve that second 5%. That is why I personally hope that a negotiated solution will be found here, that the wage settlement will not then, in a certain way, buy out this benefit that might be gained now. The third is the 5% that would come from businesses, where the conditions for growth are now being created, among other things, by increasing local agreement. A 5 percentage point improvement in cost competitiveness is therefore not a reason to compromise on the means to be discussed. 5%, 5%, 5%, the 5+5 model, is essential for our country's competitiveness, essential for jobs. I personally believe that everyone who is currently unemployed is also hoping that the job itself will be created, that we will have more jobs in this country, and many who are afraid of whether their own job will be maintained in the future — these measures will also do so. If we manage to achieve this together, together, in consultation, hopefully between the government and the opposition, but above all between employees and employers, then the government has promised to strengthen the purchasing power of Finland in 2017 a further 1 billion labour tax reduction, which would also significantly increase employment. In my opinion, this is an absolutely desirable goal as well. Mr President! Government proposals will be submitted to Parliament in the spring of next year. Decisions have been promised that we will do them here by the summer, and the preparation of the law must now be done with care to take account of the gender implications, such as the impact on different families, children and others, including workers in different sectors. They must be carefully examined in this drafting of the law. So there is still time to bring an alternative to the table, and I personally hope that a solution will be found in agreement between the social partners. There are a lot more tools for the solution in the toolbox, and also so that it takes account of the different sectors, the different workers, women and men equally, so that we are evenly shouldering the responsibilities that we have in this country, and then we will be able to move forward in this country, because if we do not have work, there will also be no tax revenue, and the tax revenue will, however, be used to pay for the majority of the welfare services in this country. Mr President! Therefore, I absolutely expect alternative solutions of this kind to come. They can come from the opposition, they can come from the government parties, but above all I expect them from the social partners themselves — not from individual social partners, but from a joint proposal to achieve this common objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u393	Madam President! The competitiveness jump presented by the Prime Minister may sound knee-broken at the moment. When you go out and do what you do in sports without getting warmed up and prepared, you can break your knees or ankles, after which it will be a little painful and difficult to move forward. And now, listening to these last turns, it feels a little like this. Insecurity has been created for people first through drastic cuts for those on low incomes, including pensioners, families with children, students and the unemployed. Thereafter, low - paying workers were disciplined. The government has also gone to such areas, which are not traditionally and hopefully not in the future either, and not now, such as holidays, sickness allowances, wage increases, which have now become cuts in holiday money. After today's debate, I still had some doubts as to who all the holiday money will or will not be for in the future. Finland’s strength has been a tripartite one, which in the previous period became a concrete employment and growth pact, of which one year remains of a moderate wage settlement. And yet even now the trade unions have been prepared to come up against the government with zero increases by making their own welcome. However, this does not seem sufficient for employers' organisations when the government is promising wage reductions in advance. The problem is, of course, already at the start when you look at those VM's own estimates. The creation of 50 to 70,000 new jobs, which we have spoken about here, is in no way certain. We have bad memories of the dynamic effects of previous periods, so it seems that the desired increase in the number of jobs is not coming. More than that, there is a fear that when people lose their purchasing power, jobs will decrease, unemployment will increase, and then the costs of the state will also increase as a means of managing unemployment. For the Demares, more could have been thought of as the current salary could have provided more products, more services, and not as satisfying only what is currently being done with less pay. This could be achieved because labour productivity consists of many things, many studies and studies and practical life have shown that better productivity can be achieved by improving skills, well-being at work, management, innovation and trust. If it were really just the cost that comes to employers and businesses, then perhaps it would have been worth assessing the impact of the hand-out of approximately EUR 2.5 billion that was first provided as a write-off of the Kela levy, then as a reduction in the corporation tax and now as a reduction in the tax on social security. What has been their impact on employment or investment? At present, the impact has been negative: not new jobs, but more unemployment, not new investments. The problem is that these measures do not respond to the problem they say they are responding to, because the problems of exports will not be saved by punishing the salaries of low-paid public workers. The actions are quite different. If you think of wages, then if you look at the wages in Germany or Sweden to which you compare here, the wage level is higher than in Finland. And we have, through the cannon, through the Employment and Growth Pact, workers have already been involved in these efforts for a few years. Well, now the guilt is borne by my many friends on the municipal and public employees side, from their vacations, their vacations, their sickness allowance,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u394	Madam President! There has been a long debate on information in order to improve cost competitiveness. Mr Paatero has just argued that it has been a long time and that there is no performance, or rather that it is too soon to move. You can say that this is the Prime Minister. The Sipilä Government has already initiated this social contract negotiations during the government negotiations. If you go that long, I guarantee and underscore, as a sportsman, that such a walk will never be a good performance if you have to walk a month after a month and you never get a result. There is already a fourth attempt, my fellow Member. When, dog, is it the right time to get that sports performance born? Prime Minister Sipilä's grips on this matter are correct and good. Finland already has EUR 100 billion in debt, and at the rate of EUR 5 billion more will come every year. This is simply no longer the case. We will all confess that, whether we sit on the right side of the hall or on the left or even in the middle. Our ratings are being monitored at the moment, and if there is an increase of one per cent, as has been said, a billion will go from the Finnish state to more money for interest payments. What poison is it, for example, for mortgages in this city? There's no worse poison for families with children than if they went up the heels. It doesn't even help the opposition play games with it. If there is a responsible opposition, there is no room for any Members of Parliament to play with it in this Chamber. It is a death-threatening matter for our economy and families and working people and all Finns. The situation in our competitiveness is serious at the moment. I think it's about time we confessed. If we do not recognize this symptom, let us look at our export statistics: we are going downhill all the time. It is probably the best indicator of how the Finnish economy is doing at the moment. That is why the government's proposal for measures to improve competitiveness could not become a better time. Now are the last few moments, and now is no longer the time for a walk, no more. The social pact has been twisted and twisted, and it must be created here, or it will lose credibility, and I very much hope, for my part, that all the social partners will take this seriously and come up with a common, comprehensive agreement. For this we need every single organisation, every single Finnish and, above all, the common spirit that we lift from the swamp of Finland. It's not by fighting, it's not by fighting. It's by doing. To this day, Prime Minister Sipilä has promised several times, dozens of times, that the gate will be open to new super propositions that are better than those made by Prime Minister Sipilä's Government. The gate's still open. Let no one speak in this Chamber any more of the fact that laws have now been imposed. It has been yelled four times now that good performances or even better are being made. The talk that we are about to lock up is not at all true. If, then, we look at a little history: Why does this competitiveness need improvement, and by what means? A social pact is certainly the best way to do that. But let us look at 2002, for example, when Finland joined the euro. After all, the possibility of devaluation was not even allowed to be discussed at the time, and it was then denied that our internal costs could increase. We're having that conversation now, aren't we? When costs have risen and devaluation is no longer possible, Mr President, we must now do this internal devaluation ourselves. It's tough, but we don't have a choice anymore. Sweden and Germany took this same course of worms on their own. Sweden outside the euro, Germany within the euro, and they are doing well. The Constitutional Committee visited Sweden last week. There the unemployment rate is between 6.3% and 6.4%, exports are doing well, and government borrowing in Sweden next year is just under EUR 1 billion. Sweden is doing very well, and they are doing a good job. But there's no vat, there's no vat, there's no vat. The means of the Government Programme are the right ones: we need to control the costs and ensure competitiveness. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out what the real means put forward by the Sipilä Government are: the last time Finland was in the economic swamp in the early 1990s, the mark was devalued by 14% on 15 November 1991, and when the mark was allowed to float on 8 September 92, the mark was devalued by 27%, i.e. the combined effect of devaluation was 41%. For the Finnish people of that time, it was a real course of worms. It's compared to what happened in our day.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u395	Mr President! Mr Paatero has just highlighted the dynamic effects of past changes. He mentioned, among other things, the deduction of the Kela levy and the reduction of the corporation tax. It is true that the employment situation in Finland is very weak and has continued to deteriorate over the past few years, but it must also be borne in mind that we have been suffering from a severe recession for seven years now, and these factors leading to a recession are not just dependent on Finland. After this reduction in corporation tax, for example, very significant investments have been made in the bioeconomy sector. The question now is what would be the state of our economy and our unemployment rate if these very important changes had not been made at all. Would the representative be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u396	Then to the list of speakers, namely Mr Paatero, who will have the floor at some point, but now it is Mr Hakkarainen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u397	Madam President! This price competitiveness, which has been mentioned, and a 5% competitiveness jump: we have a situation where, according to some research, 70 per cent of companies would be leaving Finland, leaving or some of them, of course, will not be able to leave, they will die in their place if something is not done. Since 2007, we have lost 20 to 30 billion from the export industry, and we need to get this back if we are to keep the public side at this level where it is now. We are living in a double deficit, which means that in the past the cost of this public sector has been corrected by the trade surplus, we are now in a deficit. Exports are stalling. This has to change. And then these studies have been carried out, which the opposition has been working very hard on, during the last period they were discussed. One study was how Finland is one of the world's leading countries in terms of price competitiveness. And what did it study? AIDS. Then there was — what, the mosquito... — malaria, health and education. We are concerned with health and education, but AIDS and malaria are not very much here. If this kind of research is done, it's an export industry problem, it's a fight, going on somewhere other than malaria and these. You don't have to put these on the table. Then I will pick up on the last speech I made. I was talking about the sawmill industry. Its export income is approximately EUR 1.5 billion for Finland. If we get a 5% competitive jump, that's 75 million. At the moment, many sawmills are laying people off. If we could get this $75 million into it, there wouldn't be any layoffs. Which one's better? Every time these layoffs are made and the industry stops, the market is lost. That too must be taken into account. Someone else will step in there and bring their own blocks. We need to take this into account. Madam President! The volume of additional logs brought to the market by future investments in pulp can be sawn by existing plants. — I shall therefore continue my previous speech, which I made here. — It would be possible to increase productivity at present, and investment would also need to be opened up by bottlenecks. New investments will make it even more important to ensure the supply of raw materials to industry in the future. The Government’s key projects highlight specific measures to market wood. These include promoting generational change and increasing forest and entrepreneurship reduction. The Government Programme has an investment of EUR 600 million in infrastructure. The lower road networks of the transport routes must be maintained in order to obtain wood from the forest for processing. The transport costs of Finnish industry must be kept under control. It is unreasonable that the transport costs of Finnish sawn timber to Central Europe are between EUR 8 and 15 more expensive per cubic metre than those of Sweden. Returning diesel tax to heavy goods vehicles would be a good way to support the export euro-importing industry. Port and fairway charges should also be reduced, and for this I would also like to thank Mr Rinnes, who has raised this point of view on the opposition. They've noticed this, too. But we still have such a situation in this area that compared to Central Europe there is icebreaker costs, they are not there. And these sulphur directives of all the world are being enacted here. These are burdens for Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u398	Madam President! Representative for Savio: I do not know that there was a study in advance on reductions in corporation tax, but there was an explanation of the cancellation of the Kela levy. It had been tested in Northern Finland to see how many more jobs can be created by taking the Kela fee off companies locally. The result was zero. There were no more jobs, and this knowingly was extended to the whole of Finland, so it is assumed that the unemployment rate would be exactly the same, whether it is the same or not, but it has become good for businesses, and that is nothing, it was the line of the bourgeois government at the time. Congressman Hoskose for what's wrong or not getting any better by walking around. Yes, if I listen to the demonstrations that have taken place at the beginning of the government in Helsinki, Mannerheimintie and the railway station, there have been students there, there have been pensioners there, there have been families with children and there have been 30,000 employees there, then I do think that the exercise could have been somewhat improved so that everyone would not be in this state and this uncertainty would be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-30-ps-42.u399	Madam President! Finally, I would like to mention the fact that, as far as Mrs Paatero is concerned, the time has still not passed. As Prime Minister Sipilä said during today's debate, there is still the gate open that we can then conclude a joint agreement, which he too thought was the best option. Super propositions are still welcome. If we are sharing such irrelevant things, we have the house on fire all the time, and we are just looking at the gutters to see if the thresholds are in order. You gotta see a big bear and not run away from that wasp. Now is the time, ladies and gentlemen, to take a spoon in a beautiful hand and work. In time, the farm said that the fields would not be plowed if the master was lying on a cabin bank and chained to the ceiling. Now we have to work and put an end to such a jumbled, frivolous debate about who was more right or even less.
