ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would now ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box and ask those Members who wish to ask questions to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u2	Questions will be initiated by Mr Gustafsson. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u3	Mr President! More and more, it is starting to feel that the government is really building on one card. Essential issues relating to EU and human rights agreements have been removed from the package of coercive laws in the consultation. We do not want to ask again and again about the situation of forced law, but, apart from the fact that forced law is a wrong policy, it violates freedom of contract and is also legally questionable. Several expert professors have resented the preparation. Professor Tala told me in Helsingin Sanomat that he has never seen anything like it. "Darking is sure to the straight term," he said. According to the draft law, all essential elements must be carefully and carefully identified and reflected in government proposals. Mr President! You, Minister Lindström, are also the Minister of Justice and are responsible for the level of legislative drafting in this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u4	Madam President! This preparation of laws has been done as well as it has ever been possible to do in this timetable. No political guidance has been used here, and this is a fully transparent exercise. The government stands behind this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u6	Mr President! I've got to borrow some of the top experts in the country right now. According to Professor Anssi Keinänen, "The problem of political guidance is clearly evident in the case of compulsory law. The criteria for good lawmaking are no longer respected". After all, the point is extremely serious. The government intends to interfere with free contract law. It is difficult to find a bigger question of principle. That is why we cannot accept the fact that, obviously, officials are not allowed to carry out their work impartially by virtue of their responsibilities. In this case, Mr President, the government cannot play a game of money and poverty. Now show patience and wisdom in time, and pull the suspenders over the straits. Mr President! There is now a need to carry out a proper and comprehensive risk assessment. Possible coercive laws create a lack of trust and uncertainty and create problems for the labour market. [President MariaLohela : Now to the question, Mr Gustafsson. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u11	Madam President! As I said, the TEM officials have done as well as they have ever been able to do on these timetables. As far as the withdrawal of these laws is concerned, we have told you how it is going to work. The door is open for a new performance. If that happens, we have told you that we will then withdraw these laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u12	Mr President! The government justifies its decisions on the weaker and low-income groups by being forced to do so because the country is in a difficult economic situation and by ensuring that everyone is involved in the process of balancing the economy. Forced law package The government trades with a view to improving Finland’s competitiveness. This is taking a large slice of the salary away from low-paid care and service workers. I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä about a matter on which I have received a number of confused citizens' feedback recently. How can it be that, at the same time as you are taking part of your regular Finnish wage earners out of your pay and justifying them with the state of the economy and Finland's competitiveness, you, Prime Minister Sipilä, have decided to raise your own assistant's salary by about 10%, i.e. EUR 700 per month?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u13	Mr President! It was now a question of this legislative drafting and its constitutionality. According to the Constitution, the government also has a duty to promote employment and safeguard welfare services. This package of legislation on competitiveness has been carried out because no agreement was reached with the social partners during the summer and autumn. Its only aim is to get jobs for the unemployed. The government has a target of 110000 new jobs and a 72% increase in the employment rate. This consists of three parts, as I have said on many occasions, including almost the whole of the previous Question Time on this issue: this competitiveness element, wage moderation and then measures to promote productivity. With these three measures, we are going to close the gap in competitiveness that we have lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u14	Madam President! A few days ago, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a position on this quality of drafting, which was also reflected in the report by the Chancellor of Justice. In itself, in this bad word, which sounds like political guidance, the problem is not that it is used — it is supposed to be used — but that it is timely. There is a very precise, detailed preparation process guide for the Government's lawmakers, which calls for this political guidance at an early stage, but then gives the lawmakers peace to do their work properly, with adequate impact assessments, study of the options, clarification of the legal framework and consideration of the opinions received. I would now like to ask the Government: will you, or would you like to do so from tomorrow onwards, pay more attention to compliance with the Code of Conduct and to taking account of opinions?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u15	Madam President! As I said at the outset, this has been done as well as ever in this timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u18	Madam President! A few days ago, Mr. Roope Uusitalo, President of the Economic Assessment Council, wrote a blog on this competitiveness package. He said in his blog that the impact on employment in this respect is questionable. You talk about 38,000 new jobs, but he writes that the impact can be very minor. It could be zero, or it could be negative. We have seen that the drafting of legislation for the government has been relatively poor until now, and we are concerned that this will hopefully not continue in the same way. After all, this Economic Assessment Council is an external body set up by the Government to examine the financial decisions taken by the Government. How do you intend to respond to the President of the Economic Assessment Council's blog and views? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u19	Madam President! Of course, these employment effects will be clarified when this legislative process is progressing. These effects can, of course, be assessed at this stage by all kinds of experts, and I do not question this expertise either.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u20	Madam President! Also, the Bank of Finland, as a reliable assessor, has only published its own forecast of future developments. It says: "In Finland, the price of labour has risen faster than the average of the trading partner countries and the ability of companies to pay wages has developed less, especially since 2007. In the export sectors, profitability has deteriorated." And President Liikanen's quote: "There is a need for solutions in Finland that will significantly improve cost competitiveness. This will strengthen confidence and boost the outlook for economic growth as exports and investments are strengthened."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u21	Madam President! One part of this improvement in our competitiveness is also the reform of local reconciliation and its increase in the workplace, and now I would like to ask Mr Rehn, Minister for Economic Affairs, as Minister for Employment and Competitiveness, as the Minister responsible for the government's employment and competitiveness top projects: What importance do you see in this reform of local reconciliation? What effects can it best have on our economy? And second of all, it's so... [President MariaLohela :I recall that the original question was on the preparation of this law in that direction. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u24	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. It is important from the point of view of law-making that the government prepares this law very thoroughly and carefully, and that is why the government decided on Tuesday to set up a tripartite working group to prepare legislative changes on promoting local agreement and strengthening the status of staff in business decision-making. This is of fundamental importance, particularly for the employability of smaller enterprises, and because of this, as mentioned in the question, non-organised enterprises, which are often small and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to get on the same footing with the organised companies, provided that they fulfil the conditions laid down in the legislation for the status, representation and information of staff. Overall, the main objective of this is to strengthen:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u25	Mr President! I believe that there has been widespread concern among the public about this issue, that the government is preparing for very big changes and that the compulsory law package undermines the position of many low-paid, particularly women-dominated sectors, public-sector nannies and nurses, and the impact assessments of whether this is actually useful at all. The President of the Economic Council himself questions them. Neither had you made an impact assessment of the poverty of pensioners before your decisions, and it was only after the opposition's calculations were presented that you withdrew this reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners. In this regard, Prime Minister, there is also concern that you said in the A-Studio that the docents of the world are finding the reasons why things cannot be done, and quite a few — combined with the university cuts, which are very large — feel that this government is anti-scientific and does not take its decisions on the basis of knowledge. Now you have the opportunity, Prime Minister, to respond to this serious concern, which among Finnish university staff, experts, professors, is that you are not taking the knowledge
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u26	Mr President! As far as I know, I myself am the chairman of that Economic Council, and I want to correct immediately that I have not disseminated this kind of information. This is just for the benefit of the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u27	Mr President! You, as Minister of Labour, are preparing this package of compulsory legislation, which undoubtedly contains difficult questions from the point of view of fundamental rights. Furthermore, as Minister of Justice, you are giving an opinion on this compulsory law, specifically from the point of view of fundamental rights, and that opinion is very limited but somewhat critical and draws attention to the need for those arguments to be valid. But also at the Ministry of Justice, good lawmaking guidelines talk about the need to carry out a gender impact assessment based on our Equality Act and the principle of equality of the Constitution. Now that that law has not assessed the effects and, for example, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice has not paid any attention to the matter, can you now promise that those sexual effects will be thoroughly examined — not only in the case of medical treatment, which has been distinguished, but also in the light of the overall impact, because it is the most important one?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u28	Madam President! It is quite true that the opinion was very limited, but no political guidance has been used here either. The OM has issued an opinion on these laws and it is critical. As far as these gender impact assessments are concerned, at the outset I found that we have had a very tight schedule. We have worked on that schedule and done as good a job as we have ever been able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u31	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u32	Mr President! It doesn't seem very convincing to me the ministers' answers. I, too, have been contacted and concerned about whether the government has sufficient expertise to lead the drafting of the law. Of course, I appreciate the fact that Mr Lindström said just now that there are shortcomings in the gender impact assessment, among other things. This compulsory law strikes women in particular, especially women with low incomes. Similarly, four professors in Helsingin Sanomat have stated that sufficient attention has been paid to EU legislation and EU rule of law provisions so far. That in this respect the Social Democrats and the opposition do not pay unnecessary attention to this coercive legislation. The question is now, Minister: Now you have the opportunity to show leadership. [President MariaLohela : Now in time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u35	Madam President! As I just said, I will do what I can for this. Here, as I recall, Prime Minister Sipilä, if I do not misremember, has said, or was the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, that these impact assessments are being carried out. It's here. The Prime Minister has said, and I am counting on the Prime Minister to say that this will happen. Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u36	Next question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u37	Mr President! The Government has brought a proposal to the Parliament to define freelancers and other self-employed persons as entrepreneurs in legislation. Unfortunately, no self-employed organisations have been consulted in the preparation of the law. They have therefore strongly criticised the law and hoped that it would be returned to the new preparations. However, the new law is intended to enter into force in a few weeks' time, but despite this, there is a complete doubt in the kingdom as to whether the freelancer will be able to trust that he will receive unemployment benefit in a situation in which his entrepreneurship is only secondary. In other words, if a person is considered to be an entrepreneur in the main activity, he or she is not entitled to this unemployment benefit. In other words, my question is whether the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will see to it that in two weeks the guidelines will be put to the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u38	Madam President! Indeed, many times last season I myself drew attention to these interpretations that they are incomplete. And yes, there will be such clear guidelines that there will be no problems in applying it. That's a complicated piece of legislation. A Te Office official can often have little courage to intervene in these matters without a comprehensive guidance from the Ministry on different application situations and interpretations across the country. Attention will be paid to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u39	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u40	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good answer. The Finnish Journalist Federation, for example, set an example in the committee hearing that a self-employed journalist had been working for only three hours a month and had nevertheless been interpreted as a principal entrepreneur. Unfortunately, there are very many such cases, and this is why freelancers often do not dare, if they are on a earnings-related basis, to register as unemployed because they fear losing unemployment benefit. You have talked a lot about the possibility of developing social security in Finland in order to encourage people to move from paid work to entrepreneurship without fear and vice versa, and social security to follow smoothly. What is the government doing to do this? After all, the number of self-employed is constantly increasing as companies withdraw and then hire these same people back in terms of terms of employment. However, it would be desirable for us to have such social security,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u41	Mr President! This is a very important question, and indeed, now that I read this report from your committee with all its objections and from there with all these things, you had indeed raised some very good points and these points from there, which certainly must be taken into account in the future. I thank the whole committee for having produced an excellent report. But I would also like to express my thanks for the objection, if you could say so exceptionally, because it also raised some very important issues in relation to the direction in which we must be able to take social security, because this concerns you quite rightly. After all, the STM is now carrying out this overall review of the social security system, and I say quite sincerely that we will certainly be taking these matters into account there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u42	Mr President! This will, of course, put the preparation of this ministry in a new light: even opposition protests are welcome by the government. The fact is that this government proposal does not weaken but does not improve the position of self-employed. The self-employed are close people to me, and that is why I have suffered when thousands of people have been in distress and panic when Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said in his blog: "The proposal significantly undermines the livelihood of self-employed workers and threatens to exclude freelance workers from unemployment benefit." Thanks to this false witness, thousands of people have been distressed to contact, concerned about their own future and livelihood. This is irresponsible politics. However, I would like to ask Minister Lindström or Minister Mäntylä: can the law clearly define what is full-time and what is secondary entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u43	Mr President! Here's the key question. The purpose and purpose of this government proposal was not to take a position on this particular problem with the concepts of main and secondary activity, but last time in 2012, as I recall, has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health... Now I don't remember, so I don't give a false witness, but I remember it was in 2012. At that time, the committee did not take any clear position, but it is quite clear that, in today's labour market and in today's labour market change, we certainly need to find clear concepts of what is the main activity and what is the secondary activity of doing so that we are able to encourage people to take up work in a situation like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u44	Mr President! The interpretations of the Unemployment Protection Act for entrepreneurs, exceptional entrepreneurs and family members of the entrepreneur are confusing and often very unfair, but many people are in between employees and entrepreneurs. Would it not be better, though, for a person to receive part of his or her livelihood from his or her own activities and part of something other than being forced to become completely unemployed? This proposal will inevitably lead to arbitrary action in many cases, for it is quite certain that unclear legislation will lead to extreme strict interpretation, regulation and guidance by the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u45	Madam President! As far as I am concerned, there is only one change in this law and the same provision is still applicable to the assessment of secondary activities. If it is a secondary activity and there is no change in the circumstances, it is a secondary activity in the future and the person can enjoy a adjusted daily allowance. Unemployment benefit will remain unchanged, i.e. nothing will happen to the employee’s unemployment benefit. I understand this, it is very difficult to define exactly who is the entrepreneur and who is the employee, so this is difficult. That is why we need good and thorough guidance, but is there perfect — I am afraid, of course, that I can promise that. But we will do our best and instruct you centers as well as we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u46	Madam President! I am a little surprised that yesterday it was criticised that the opposition was not always listened to when there was this employment gap issue. Well, then Mr Heinäluoma announced at some point when different answers came from here, that it was good to listen and that it was worth sitting here. And today, Mr Harakka says that it is worrying that the opposition is being heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u47	Mr President! It is excellent that this issue was raised here. Perhaps the message to the government is that the consultation of the cultural sector in the preparation of this law was incomplete in such a way that it is a good idea to catch up on this. We in the committee heard experts: for example, the Journalist League lawyer said that this bill 94 does not change the position of their freelancers in either direction or in the other, contrary to what the Greens, for example, put forward. But they say that thank you to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the statements we made, and indeed we expect that now those guidelines from the centres should be put in place in such a way as to ensure that people are treated fairly and fairly. I also hope that the Minister responsible will say that you have read these statements — which are, by the way, on the table this evening — and you will promise to make them. And there was also a little message to the government that you would look again at social security that everyone's employment would be worthwhile. I hope that the Minister will also respond to this. I am very sorry that false information has been disseminated, particularly by the Greens, on this government proposal. And thank you to the Social Democrats who were involved in the government's motion...
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u48	Mr President! As far as this preparation and these statements are concerned, we have indeed considered that, when they are not directly related to this government proposal, it has not been considered necessary, in that sense, to ask them then, but, as has been said, they are very valuable for further work, and I am sincerely pleased that there have been hearings. There are a lot of positions there that will certainly benefit from further work. You have made good statements here, I have read them and watched them, and it is very easy to go behind them. And once again, I repeat that social security is, of course, always working for the STM to make it clear precisely that it is always worthwhile to do work and receive it, whether it is freelance or any representative and professional in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u49	Minister Lindström again.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u50	Madam President! Representative to Sarkomaa: Yes, guidance is done. We will gather together with a reading lamp and a magnifying glass to look at these statements, and then we will be instructed, and this will move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u51	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u52	Madam President! I am very sorry that, once again, in this Chamber, false witness is given to other parties about the direction of the coalition. On the other hand, I would like to thank Mr Mäntylä for his very pertinent reply, as well as Mr Lindström, the Minister for Labour. I was very pleased to hear that you have read our objections and the statements contained therein. I think you do, too. [President MariaLohela: Is there a question? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u57	Madam President! I will say very briefly what I said earlier: this needs good guidance. Let us take this seriously, let us read your statement and move on from it. I'm sure we're done here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u58	Next question, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u59	Mr President! The number of default marking and over-indebtedness has increased worryingly in Finland. There are currently more than 370,000 payment failures, or 8.5% of the adult population. There are many reasons for over-indebtedness. Major risk factors include differences, diseases and, in particular, unemployment. There are many ways of making life difficult. The subscription prevents the acquisition of a mortgage, home insurance and credit card. It makes it difficult to get a rental dwelling and a mobile phone subscription and even to get a job. Over-indebtedness and default marking are also a barrier to employment, when it is not necessarily worth accepting work when paying out. Over-indebtedness marginalises people and also creates economic problems. Last season, there were speed levers. It was a good step forward, but it's not enough alone. I would ask the government: what will be done to reduce over-indebtedness?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u60	Madam President! The following legislative measures have been taken to prevent private individuals from falling into the debt cycle: In simple debt cases, 12 creditors were limited in the year to recover legal costs from the debtor and, on the other hand, 13 interest rates were set for these short-term loans in June. For loans of less than EUR 2000 the annual interest rate may therefore be 50.5%. From the beginning of 15 C.E., access to the debt facility was facilitated, in particular for the unemployed, young people and older people and entrepreneurs. The final obsolescence of the debt was fixed at 08. Of course, these concerns have been taken seriously and, in the Ministry of Justice, these issues are now being clarified as to what can be done about these matters in future. I have no concrete proposal at the moment to tell you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u61	I would ask the representatives who would like to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u62	Mr President! As the Minister said, the previous government did a lot of good in this regard, but action is still needed. The Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group has taken an initiative to deal with the causes of over-indebtedness and to present possible solutions to the problem. For example, one could develop debt counselling and social credit, change the enforcement cycle and recovery practices, and address the problems of credit lines and peer loans. In addition, Kela's practices can be revised. Recovery of social aid paid too much causes payment disruptions when, in all cases, overpaid subsidies are not paid back by partial payment, despite their will, but are transferred directly by Kela to recovery. Kela's strict character practices may also lead to the creation of default marking. My question is this: does the Minister believe that there is room for checking Kela's practices to avoid creating unnecessary insolvency marking?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u63	Madam President! It is true that over-indebtedness of these poor people, i.e. falling into the debt cycle and thus being excluded, is being prevented by this social credit, among other things. At present, some 30 municipalities grant low-income residents social credits. A report on the development of social credit has been prepared under the mandate of STM, OM and TEM. Despite all the above measures, according to the recent statistics on Finnish Customer Information, almost 370,000 persons, especially in younger age groups, have these payment default entries only increased. The number of debtors in enforcement has remained unchanged in 14 but the number of cases brought into enforcement has decreased. These are, of course, big issues, and they must be taken very seriously, and of course, in the midst of all the other rush we are looking for opportunities to tackle these problems too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u64	Minister Mäntylä briefly completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u65	Briefly, yes, Mr President! Indeed, since Kela belongs there under my own ministry, I also wanted to ask for an answer. This thing is very serious, and it has become a lot of feedback since last spring when this sort of line is made. I personally will continue to discuss this personally, whether this is a fair way of taking this matter forward. Of course, we also have Kela’s delegates, who will then be able to contribute to this. However, as a minister, at least I have taken this very seriously in relation to Kela and direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u66	Värderade fru talman! Det är alldeles sant som ox har commit fram att det gjordes mycket förra perioden. Bland you give fick vi en strängare snabblånelagstiftning. Vi förbättrade också öjligheten för småföretagare att få skuldsanering och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u67	Madam President! With regard to the timetable, I can't say, I'm honest with you, but I'll find out what it is. Of course, we must try to kick this forward, along with many other big things, which is of course taken seriously, and especially this indebtedness of young people cannot in any way be taken overboard. I, too, have been contacted by many people who are over-indebted, who are in a serious spiral, and then consider what measures can be taken. It will then be a bigger offer to think about what they are in concrete terms, what needs to be done about legislation. So all this work is in progress at the moment, but it is not forgotten in any way. So, of course, things are being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u68	Mr President! The problem of Finland's inadequate credit system is particularly evident in the fact that tens or even hundreds of new credit entries are actually available to the same people over a period of one year. On average, a default may have up to 17 entries. In order to solve this problem, all domestic credit professionals have proposed the creation of a positive credit register in Finland. In the simplest sense, it would be a register containing outstanding credit balances for all consumer credit exposures. At present, a similar positive register is in place in almost all EU countries. I would like to ask the Minister: is there a readiness in Finland to introduce a positive credit register?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u69	Madam President! I must confess that we have now gone to an area where I do not yet have enough solid information to be able to answer that question. But let us take this to a so-called memory site and find out inside the government whether there is any use for this, and if so, we will certainly take it forward. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u70	Mr President! In this regard, Minister Lindström gave a good account of the actions taken in this regard during the last term of government. I would now pay particular attention to debt counselling. That is mainly the responsibility of the municipalities, and we are well aware that not all municipalities have good resources to manage it. In terms of equality between citizens, debt counselling is not at an equal level throughout the country. Therefore, the idea of this being imputed to the State would be very important, since it would also restore this debt counselling to the citizens of the whole country from the perspective of equality. Are you prepared to take forward this idea, which was also thought of last season?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u71	Madam President! Of course there are such upbuilding thoughts. These should be taken seriously. In fact, this is a bit of the same problem as employment management, unemployment management and these interpretations as to whether there is a level playing field across the country. Debt counselling is an issue where there must be a level playing field across the board, as you pointed out. Yes, I am prepared to look into this matter, and then we will draw conclusions from this idea that you have made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u72	Madam President! Loss of credit data in Finland often means being excluded from society’s systems so that it can be said that citizens’ rights are lost. For example, access to banking credentials may be difficult, although e-identification is required to access many government systems. Similarly, home insurance can be quite impossible, even if in principle it is well organised, for example through advance payments. Without home insurance, you cannot get a rental dwelling on a private market, which in practice are the only tenants in large cities who can quickly obtain a dwelling. Homelessness, visiting Kela, visiting employees — all these things are compromised if you lose your credit information. However, could we not get into a system where even the basic functions of life would be possible even for people who have no credit records?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u73	Madam President! This is, of course, such a question, which is also topical in the sense that when we have this asylum crisis in our hands and many people, immigrants, do not have this ID card, then they will not be able to get bank IDs, they will not be able to handle their affairs. The same applies to native Finns who have lost their credit records. This, could the restriction still be changed in relation to these key issues, so that they can take care of things and take them forward, really seriously has to be considered. I'm not sitting here promising anything but to find out this possibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u74	Next question, Mr Haglund.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u75	Madam President, fru talman! This week the government presented its asylum policy programme. One of these changes, which is pending, is to change residence permit practices so that, in future, a person's residence permit, which has already been granted once, can be considered, and this is quite often the case. This does not seem very reasonable, because I would see that it is clear that, at the time when a person has received a residence permit, he or she needs to be involved in his integration. You have to make sure that you learn languages and get to work, get to study, and that you remain part of our society. If the government plans now come true, then a signal will be given that at regular intervals you will always be seen whether you can be sent back to your original homeland. I would like to ask the Minister whether this makes any sense. Is this an effective integration measure?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u76	Mr President! This situation of asylum, where Finland is, requires us to go through all of these criteria and practices, and, in this situation, we must also tighten up many of our practices so that we can get through this and have the resources to help those people who need real help. In fact, we have not changed the current practice much here, but we will make it clearer. We have admitted asylums in the past, mainly for four years, but now we need to make the practice clearer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u77	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u78	Madam President! I am sure it is as Mr Orpo said, but I still ask: what are we going to do now to make these people integrate? According to the government’s own estimates, about one third of those who have arrived this year will remain in Finland, i.e. between 10,000 and 15,000, some of that category. We all know that there are between 10,000 and 15,000 people in a 5 million country, and that could be an opportunity if we do something to get them to work. In my opinion, it is now the most important thing that they can get to study. I would have asked Minister Lindström if you were prepared to consider the RKP proposals. We have argued, inter alia, that Article 79 of the Aliens Act It would be amended so that asylum seekers could be able to work immediately. We have proposed removing the need for a foreign labour force. What proposals do you have in the government, concrete ones, so people can get to work? It is the important measure to make people a part of our society. The second is, of course, studying. There is now a need for concrete action, because everything that has become concrete so far is not very encouraging.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u79	Madam President! In this integration, it is very important that it succeeds for those who receive its residence permit. As far as the acquisition of needs is concerned, this asylum policy programme has stated that it does not give up on the issue of needs. But we still have the practice of having access to foreign labour in expert positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u80	Madam President! In fact, as a follow-up to this question, is it possible, then, that this labour needs test might be circumvented by the fact that now, if it is possible to get directly into the labour market as an asylum seeker, then there would be those who come from third countries and register as an asylum seeker and then enter the Finnish labour market more quickly than they would apply for a work permit and residence permit in Finland through the normal process. Is this going to be a bypass?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u81	Madam President! I have been repeating the same thing all along that there are no bypass lanes to be built, and it certainly needs to be pointed out that this does not happen either. So that's what we're gonna do with the needs test. It's a normal process. This is the thinking that the government is going to take forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u82	Mr President! Reception centres have been created all over Finland, but unfortunately, at the same time we have noticed that there have been challenges in setting up reception centres. It is essential that residents of municipalities are sympathetic to reception centres. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved. However, yesterday and the day before yesterday, the government came out with new policies and stressed the transparency of the administration, which essentially involves consulting the municipalities. How are you, Minister, going to promote the local authorities' perspective in this process?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u83	Madam President! As everyone will be well aware, within a few months we have had to set up 20,000 reception places, and much more than a hundred of these reception centres have been set up in a hurry. It must now first of all give thanks to the municipalities for having found cooperation, but it is clear that, when this has been done under pressure, reception centres have been set up in such places that they are not sensible either functionally, from a safety point of view or economically, and that is why we have now gone through the entire network of reception centres from this point of view. Three have been decided immediately to close down and 27 have been defined as so-called centres for which safety needs to be improved or closed down. In this context, with such a broader assessment of reception centres, there will, of course, also be a debate with the municipalities. And now that we have some pressure and a lot of relief from new asylum seekers entering the country, we have more room for manoeuvre to have a debate whenever new ones are set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u84	Madam President! According to a study published today, Finland is the third most effective integrationist in the EU. We could say that we are one of the least bad, because there are many problems in our system too, and the increased number of asylum seekers poses an additional challenge. People who have received asylum and residence permits should be placed evenly throughout Finland, as there is already a shortage of affordable housing in Uusimaa and other growth centres. The problem is that, after work, relatives and friends, immigrants are looking for large growth centres where this phenomenon poses a wide range of problems and challenges. However, we also have good, successful examples of integration from small localities, such as Punkalaitume or Sonkajärvi. I would therefore ask the minister concerned what the government intends to do in order to achieve a successful integration so that those who have been granted asylum will remain in the places where they are located and bring them as New Finland workers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u85	Madam President! The representative is at the very heart of the matter. Indeed, we are trying to ensure that this investment takes place evenly throughout Finland, and I am fully aware that there are no jobs everywhere in Finland, as is the case with growth centres. That is why this is accompanied by our excellent government programme, on which we hope that this economy will start to rise, so that jobs will be created beyond growth centres, and then we will be able to invest those people. And at the same time, when we map this competence, we will know better what level of knowledge these people have, whether they want to become an entrepreneur. It will help us to place them throughout Finland. I am absolutely convinced that if that person gets a job there from Punkalaitume, then the temptation to go to Helsinki is much smaller.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u86	Mr President! I personally warmly welcome this programme of government action. This sends a strong signal that our asylum policy is now tightening up, and this is also conducive to putting the debate on a proper critical path. But a few minor flaws or questions: When it is stated here in the programme that the reception of refugees and the establishment of reception centres in municipalities are voluntary, can the minister concerned open up what this means in Finnish? And the question is: when the government insists that we avoid special treatment for the population, how is this in relation to the legislation adopted by Parliament during the last parliamentary term, which relaxed this positive special treatment? In other words, when it is now possible, unfortunately, more easily than before, is there any chance that this policy will actually lead to legislative measures, so that we return to the old model that quite so easily not, for example, ethnicity?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u87	Mr President! This latter question — I did not quite understand it, but the starting point is that all people in Finland are treated equally. Every human being is treated equally, and that's the starting point. It is important for us to ensure that, even in such a difficult situation, Finland remains a very equal society. Excuse me, what was the first question?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u88	Madam President! With regard to asylum seekers, there have been two unfortunate reports on the table today. In Tampere, it is suspected that a reception centre has been deliberately burned, and two Iraqi potential asylum seekers have been arrested in the Forssa region as suspects of terrorist murders. Due to growing security threats, both the resources and powers of the authorities must be at an adequate level. During the last term of government, in March of this year, an in-depth study of the so-called ex-post home search needed for example in these serious terrorist crimes to detect plans was completed, and such legislation already exists in other Nordic countries and in a large number of other EU countries. I will ask Minister Orvo whether, on the basis of this report, you have now launched a legislative project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u89	Mr President! I think that this is a very necessary piece of legislation, and we are currently looking at the launch of a legislative project in the Ministry. I would like to say in relation to this unfortunate news today that the fact that these terrorist suspects have been arrested shows that the Finnish police, the protection police, the krp is working. And as we have told you, There are currently around 300 people in Finland who are linked to terrorism, not 300 terrorists, but these two people have been identified, arrested and investigated. I think this is a good thing. As far as this fire is concerned at the reception centre: If it turns out that it has been deliberately lit, it is highly reprehensible. It's a dangerous business, and it's criminal. On the other hand, in the case of a normal fire, which is once again regrettable, special attention must be paid to the safety of reception centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u90	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 9/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The report is presented by the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u91	Madam Speaker! This law amending the party law and the candidate's electoral funding law is being discussed here, because in February 2014, following the report of the Audit Committee, Parliament issued a statement that the Government will take action and clarify the need for reform of electoral and party funding. A parliamentary working group was set up with the task of carrying out this study and it was also required to assess the feasibility of the recommendations made to Finland by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in 2011. The proposals contained in the Government proposal before us are based on the proposals of this parliamentary working party, with the exception of the amendment of the party law based on the Government Programme Act that the division of party support will not be revised, even if at least half of the MPs who represent one party in the parliamentary elections would refuse to represent that party in Parliament. In the course of this debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed the importance of democratic debate and the transparency and transparency of the funding received by the parties and candidates. Open and honest elections are the cornerstone of a functioning Western democracy. A key element of this transparency is that voters have the opportunity to know where the parties and the candidates have received funding for their campaign. I would like to raise a few points on the committee's report. Firstly, improving the status of parties excluded from Parliament. Furthermore, according to these OSCE recommendations, limiting party support only to parliamentary parties limits democratic debate and diversity. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore believes that extending party support to parties outside the Parliament is a positive thing in terms of the diversity of democratic debate and the political options available to voters. Our electoral system, especially in small constituencies, provides a rather high threshold for latent votes, which complicates the competitive environment for small parties in general and for new parties seeking their first seat in particular. The 2% national threshold proposed by the government is quite high and therefore a parallel legislative initiative has also been tabled, which proposes a 0.5% threshold. However, the committee decided unanimously to support the government's proposal and therefore to reject this bill. Secondly, the transfer of control to the National Audit Office. The transfer of the control of the use of state aid by parties to the National Audit Office supports the supervisory tasks already in place there, and we believe that such a transfer will improve the independence and impartiality of control and will also be effective. Thirdly, the extension of the reporting obligation. The Government proposes that the Audit Office's right of inspection be extended to support associations in the presidential elections, and it is proposed that the obligation to report in the European Parliament elections should also apply to another deputy representative. The committee also supports these proposals. The Audit Committee has also drawn attention to the harmonisation of electoral declarations procedures and has suggested that the Constitutional Committee should consider establishing a uniform procedure for obliged persons to carry out the obligation to record in the parliamentary and European Parliament elections in the form of a campaign account or some other lighter arrangement. The parliamentary working group did not consider this to be necessary on the basis of this proposal and, in the light of the arguments put forward by the working group, the current Article 8(3) of the Electoral Finance Act provides for sufficient precision. According to this provision of the law, the obliged party shall, on request, provide additional information and explanations in addition to the notification, which may be necessary to verify the accuracy and adequacy of the notification, by means of a campaign statement or equivalent form. The committee agrees with this view of the working group. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs attaches great importance to the transparency and transparency of electoral and party funding. However, an increase in the number of candidates' obligations, particularly in the case of municipal elections, could make it more difficult to obtain candidates. On the other hand, it would be good to have as much consistency as possible between the various electoral provisions. For these reasons, we recommend that the National Audit Office endeavour to harmonise procedures by means of guidelines which would be brought to the attention of the candidates as early as possible. The committee also considers it important for candidates to have separate bank accounts for the election campaign in the parliamentary elections and in the European Parliament elections, as well as information on how receipts for the campaign should be maintained. Although such guidelines are not binding, the committee considers that it is possible to achieve good results in harmonising procedures in good time. The problem is that the National Audit Office will adopt election-specific guidelines for making an election funding notification about six months before the election day. However, the Agency cannot know the candidates until they have actually been nominated. For this reason, the importance of the parties submitting candidates must be emphasised in bringing the guidelines to the attention of the candidates at the beginning of the campaign period as the nomination progresses. The National Audit Office does not have this option. As this issue has been seen as a problem, for example with regard to the Audit Committee, we propose that the government monitor the success of the harmonisation of procedures through guidance and, if necessary, prepare a proposal to revise the electoral funding law in this regard. Finally, two amendments are tabled by the committee. Firstly, the government's proposal would have resulted in shortcomings in the control of party support. The committee does not consider this to be justified, but believes that the transfer of control over the use of party support from the Ministry of Justice to the National Audit Office would result in a reduction in certain aspects of control of parties. For this reason, we propose to reinstate the provision in Article 9e, according to which the Ministry of Justice supervises compliance with the Party Act and the provisions and regulations adopted pursuant to it, in so far as such supervision does not fall within the remit of the National Audit Office. The second amendment concerns the law on the candidate's electoral funding, which may have a problematic, overlapping and over-interpretational wording, according to which 'a fee advertisement must indicate the name of the person who pays the ad'. We propose that this be changed so that 'a feeable advertisement must show the payer of the advertisement'. We believe that this minor but significant change in practice will help to rationalise the identification of the payer of these declarations and will continue to provide more effective guidance to the parties on how to instruct their own candidates. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that Parliament, as amended, approve the Government's proposal of 1 and 2. the draft law and that Parliament rejects the bill according to the arguments that have just been heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u99	Oh, I see there's a desire to go to the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u100	Madam Speaker! In short, on this point raised by Minister Soin, the committee also considered these possible transitions from one party group to another or from one parliamentary group to another. In practice, they have been the relocations of one representative, and briefly we have also dealt with this issue. But I am glad that Minister Soini gave such importance to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in this case the report, and in particular to the fact that it was unanimous. I look forward to this same support, and I hope that it will continue to do so, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gives unanimous opinions on how to interpret the Constitution or human rights treaties or international obligations. So thank you for raising the position of the Constitutional Committee and underlining its importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u101	Madam President! In the referral debate, some Members wanted to see a reflection of the current political situation and the situation of the parties in this correction, but I share Minister Soin's view that this was about correcting historical injustice. The re-election of Urho Kekkonen with an exemption law was in itself a questionable process, but it was a shameful process by which the SMP opposition was bought under the law of the party.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u104	Madam President! On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would also like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for his praise of the Constitutional Committee. He has also made some criticism here over the past few weeks, and that is a good thing. I also welcome the fact that the opposition: Lapintie brings out this point of view and appreciation of the Constitutional Committee. In recent weeks, we have also heard from the opposition a great deal before the legislative projects are even here in Parliament that they are unconstitutional. I find it quite interesting when, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has often not even been able to deal with them at the time. Today we heard about these forced laws that they are potentially unconstitutional, that there are problems. It could be that way. The subjective day care right was then announced that it would be unconstitutional. Well, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not think that this was the case. That too was unanimous. I would like to be cautious when it comes to pointing out that someone is unconstitutional before the Constitutional Committee has looked at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u105	Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that Foreign Minister Soini has found time for his foreign ministers and has come to Parliament precisely at the time when the committee adopts the report to justify this position on behalf of the government. In my opinion, this shows that contrary to what has been commonly claimed in public, it seems that the Finns of Peru have actually received some handprint on the program of this government. And I am sure that this appearance of Minister Soin here at this stage will confirm that. I think it's very good that he's here. But now the central question is that, when this was taken into the referral debate, there was a minister here to present, and when we tried to ask why this point was not being prepared in parliamentary terms, we did not receive an answer from the minister who presented it. It has been a good tradition that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs always strives for unanimous proposals, particularly on matters that have been parliamentary, and I understand if this issue too has been a matter of balance.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u106	Mr President! This did not require any parliamentary preparation. This is the correction of the historical injustice and the return to the original form. The then Social Democratic Party Secretary, the recently deceased Kaarlo Pitsinki, was a kind of central architect of the old party support law, and now let us return to this original socialist line. There have been shameful steps in the history of Finnish parliamentaryism, the time of whip parlourism, the time when foreign policy was used as an instrument of internal policy. I hope that we will never come back in such a time, but that our democracy will be restored.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u107	Madam President! The previous representative has just said that once upon a time when I had not yet been born, Finland has lived in shameful times of parliamentarianism. And before that, he said that there was no need for parliamentaryism so that I did not get there. So the very central question was that — after all the other points of this amendment to the party law had been dealt with in a parliamentary manner in accordance with established good practice, but then this point, which Mr Soini was here to justify, just appears in the government programme, and then it appeared here without any parliamentary debate — who here is drowning parliamentarianism? When the rapporteur minister did not answer this question, could the minister: I now have to answer this question: why was there not even an attempt to prepare this Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u110	Mr President! First of all, this was a matter recorded in the government programme. Secondly, let us say that this was not parliamentaryly prepared, that the face of the socialists will also be saved in the light of history, because the Social Democrats were in the process of drafting and taking forward this shameful amendment of the law from 1972 to 1973.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u111	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the unanimous inclusion in the report of the views we expressed in the Audit Committee. In particular, this campaign account or similar is indeed needed. President! I now come to my personal opinion on how greater transparency could be achieved in the wider field of social funding. Perhaps it should also be considered that we support interest groups with the tax exemption of contributions — they are once again tax-free — and then, when strike grants are given for this money, it is duty-free again, which is, in a way, three times the tax exemption, we are talking about EUR 200 to EUR 300 million. And with the management of occupational pension funds, the construction of general interest, you might even think that there is a risk of social corruption in this as a whole. Sometimes it should be considered whether this funding should also be made more transparent in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u112	Madam President! I have a wide range of views on this electoral funding law. But when I made a reservation in advance, I was surprised to find that Minister Soini had exceptionally reserved the floor, not on a proposal from the government, but when it was brought here from the committee, and yet on a matter that is not within his ministerial territory. I wonder what's coming. But now that I heard this speech, I understood what was going on. Of course, the chairman of his party, Minister Soin, must come with enthusiasm and joy, almost blowing up when the only thing that the party has got through the government programme is presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u115	On the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u178	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate and the report will be presented by Mrs Myller, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u239	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u306	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u331	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u371	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 15/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u372	Madam President! I would therefore like to present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal to Parliament for a law amending the mental health law. The purpose of this government proposal is to clarify the unregulated situation of the procedure to be followed when the six-month period laid down in the Mental Health Act for the continuation or cessation of treatment of a psychiatric patient has been exceeded. This draft law clarifies the authority's powers and the appropriate procedure for cases of time-limit overruns which in practice occur a few times a year. We received an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and considered that the proposed regulation will safeguard the proper treatment of the constitutional right of a psychiatric patient within the meaning of the Mental Health Act and will clarify the legislation that is not clear, particularly with regard to jurisdictional regulation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore considers that changes are necessary and appropriate and supports their adoption. In addition to the clarification of jurisdiction and procedural provisions, the main objective of the proposed provisions is to ensure the continuity of treatment for the patient in need of treatment and the application of the supervision period provisions to the patient. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers, in addition to the legal security of the patient, the objective of ensuring the safety of society to be important. And in this report we believe that, as a general rule, the cessation or continuation of the treatment of a judicial-psychiatric patient should be dealt with by the Legal Psychiatrist Committee of the Institute for Health and Welfare. The committee therefore proposes to amend Article 17b(1) of the draft law so as to extend the six-month period for maintaining the status of a psychiatric patient to one year. Madam President! This report is unanimous. [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u374	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 19/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u416	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 20/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u428	The 27th item will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 16/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u429	The 28th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 17/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u480	The 29th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u481	Madam President! I will present my bill, which is a law amending the Road Traffic Act, and it is a very fundamental bill, hopefully it will also be implemented. It would facilitate the work of home care staff, save them time for the most essential, i.e. working with them. Home care workers often face parking problems when visiting customers, especially in the centres of large cities, but also in urban areas. For example, staff do not have the right to park in the yard areas for maintenance vehicles. Often, searching for a car place far away in the customer’s home takes valuable time for home nurses to do their real important work. If a home care worker leaves his work car on the ticket, the costs of this will have to be borne by him himself. This has already been feedback from home care staff for several years. They are even desperate when their small wages have actually had to pay these parking fees themselves. The situation is completely unreasonable. According to Section 28b of the Road Traffic Act, the police may issue a parking permit for the transport of a disabled person. With that parking authorisation, the vehicle may park on a paid parking lot without payment, in an area where parking is prohibited by traffic signs, and for a longer period of time in a parking space where the maximum time for parking is limited by means of traffic signs. When such parking is obviously harmful, a vehicle must, of course, be removed at the request of the police. Other types of parking permits are not included in the provisions of the Road Traffic Act, i.e. municipalities are not currently in a position to grant such parking rights. The granting of a parking permit with the above-mentioned rights to home medical staff would also be reasonable in order to ensure flexibility in working in home medical care. A new section should therefore be added to the Road Traffic Act, which would give parking rights such as those mentioned above. Indeed, the municipalities do not currently have the right to grant such a parking permit, even if they wish. I have heard that some municipalities have even broken the law because they want to make the work of their staff smoother. However, the municipality would be the most competent authority to define the persons entitled to the parking permit. Of course, these detailed provisions on the parking authorisation, its use, would be laid down in a regulation. Let's make it as light as possible. I therefore propose that the Road Traffic Act be amended. A parking permit could be granted by a municipal technical service or by an equivalent municipal institution for a task related to home nursing provided by a municipal or private nursing establishment. With this authorisation, the vehicle could then be parked on a paid parking lot without payment, in an area where parking is prohibited by traffic signs, as provided for in the Regulation, and in a parking space where the maximum parking time is limited by traffic signs, for a longer period of time. With the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications present in this Chamber, I hope that this message will now come to the committee directly from this Chamber in this way, and this much-needed reform would take place during this reign. We have been talking about this for a very long time and we have still not been able to correct it. Maybe this government will.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u482	Madam President! Now that we are in small hours and Mr Guzenina was waiting for his own bill to be presented, I am happy to support it in this time and even in the daytime. Home care staff often have very tight schedules, and I myself have received contact and feedback on such matters, and it is good that even such small everyday things are taken up here in Parliament. We have maintenance signs, property maintenance and this type of solution in use, and one might well think why not have a label for such care. Surely it is necessary to clarify the matter and see what can be done with it, so that more time is left for those who are being treated.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u483	Madam President! This is a very well-supported bill, precisely because it leaves more time for the person, even if then you take a cup of coffee and talk to him in addition to doing these normal daily health care and cleaning and related activities there at the customer's place. This is a perfectly clear presentation, and I'm sure the municipal court will be happy to receive this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u484	Mr President! Thank you for this performance. It is a small matter in itself, but even small things must be dealt with and decided upon. But this is an issue that is absolutely worthy of consideration, and there were 32 names in that initiative, and we had not even been asked to name it, so it could certainly have been more widely named. Well, now that we members of the Committee on Transport and Communications are so well present, it may be that we will also take this to the proper reading — the appropriate one, of course, but in such a way that we can hopefully make a contribution to bringing this forward as well. When home nurses do their job on a really small salary and it's completely incomprehensible how they're doing it, the smallest thing would be if they could get the car to stop even closer to where they're doing the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u485	Mr President! Thank you for this bill. This little detail addresses the practical problems that I have observed, among other things in the field of ambulance work, and I agree with the statements that these home nurses and others who are at people’s homes helping everyday life are doing valuable work. As chairman of the committee, I promise you that the committee will consider how to achieve this as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u486	Madam President! This proposal is short and simple, but I think it is significant. As has already been pointed out in previous speeches, it will facilitate the work of housekeepers and certainly make it easier for them to work in practice, as they move around the city, make their work more efficient, and thus leave time for the actual task of caring for people. I would very much like to look forward to this proposal to the committee, too, so that we can then begin to deal with it there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u487	Madam President! This was a good day — or should I say a good night — to deal with this bill. There are so many competent people here in the Committee on Transport and Communications that this proposal has been made. I thank you very much for this support, and I hope that progress will be made. I understand that the committee is congested, but if it came from there it would make home care staff really happy, and, best of all, this bill does not cost a single thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u488	The 30th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u489	Madam President! This is the renewal of my legislative initiative last season. Last season, I took a bill to criminalise belonging to a terrorist organization. As the parliamentary term changes, these legislative initiatives by the MPs will be zeroed, and that is why I submitted this bill to Parliament on 19 November, but here, with the urgency of Parliament, it will be in the referral debate only this evening. But if criminals don't sleep at night, neither will the MPs. Act on the Law on Amendment of Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code. In Finland, membership of a criminal and terrorist organisation has not been criminalised. Nor does Finland have its own legislation on the fight against organised crime, despite the fact that criminal and terrorist organisations are increasingly a threat to Western civilised countries. In many countries, laws are now being planned to prevent citizens from entering the battlefields held by terrorists. Germany, for example, has criminalised Daesh’s propaganda and recruitment activities and the use of its symbols. At the moment, the House has recently discussed the government's proposal that training for committing a terrorist offence should be punishable. The financing of terrorism is currently also illegal in Finnish legislation. This is why membership of a terrorist organisation should also be criminalised. Terrorist organisations are a global threat to the world. All means must be put in place to defeat them. According to estimates, at least 70 people have left Finland for Daesh. Some of them are proselytes from the People's Republic of Finland, some who have already come here as refugees, asylum seekers and also second-generation immigrants who have lived their whole lives in Finland but have nevertheless become radicalized and decided to join the ranks of such a terrorist organisation. Today the news has reported on a case in which, although it is true, two twin brothers who have only just arrived in Finland as asylum seekers are suspected of an extremely cruel act of terrorism, an act of which there are videos for everyone to see and which is a cruel execution. They are, of course, clear cases in which action can be taken today, with this type of evidence, but we also have people who, according to information, have been involved in Daesh's area of activity, who have travelled there, but there is no evidence of their crimes from the perspective of today's legislation. It would then be important for the involvement and travel of a terrorist organisation to be criminalised. Therefore, my latest legislative proposal to amend Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code so that membership of a terrorist organisation becomes one of the offences of terrorism, is worded as follows: "Every member of a terrorist group shall be sentenced to a prison The definition of a terrorist group is given in Section 6. Anyone who is convicted of belonging to a terrorist group must also be condemned for having done Article 1 a criminal criminal offence, or2§ on the offence referred to." Signed in Helsinki on 19 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u490	Madam President! I thank Mr Heino for this initiative. The reasons for this initiative are very logical and follow international developments. We must be involved in this process now. We must not sit back and wait and watch what happens in the legislation of which country, but we must be able to make independent, prompt decisions. As far as immigration is concerned, I think we have far too much to expect and, more or less, the desired best. The measures proposed by the government this week are good and are in the right direction. I hope that the practical implementation of these measures will be achieved quickly. They should also be brought into force retrospectively and not legislation that only applies to those who cross the Mediterranean when the weather improves. Next spring or summer there will certainly be a new massive rush of Huns into Europe, and some of it will come all the way to small Finland if we do not quickly reduce the attraction factors. It is also important that the countries of origin are effectively informed about the situation in Finland. We cannot afford to support tens of thousands of men who also dare to complain that the service was not what we expected, as was written in Helsingin Sanomat. Madam President! I quote from Mr Heinonen's explanatory statement: 'Criminal and terrorist organisations are increasingly a threat to Western civilised countries. At the moment, a government proposal is being discussed in this House to impose penalties on training for committing a terrorist offence. It is also illegal to finance terrorism. This is why membership of a terrorist organisation should also be criminalised. Terrorist organisations are a global threat to the world. All means must be put in place to defeat them." Madam President! Mr Heinonen's words are wise and very timely. The range of means should also include extensive Internet surveillance. For example, during this autumn, an unnamed publication revealed terrible images found on Facebook of an asylum seeker in Finland. Since then, a man was arrested for war crimes. There's a lot of chance it's the same guy. The alert use of the Internet by the public alone can even have life-saving effects for the people of Finland. As long as the mainstream media were bolder and even published brutal images immediately, if they are found in the social media accounts of immigrants flying in Finland. More resources should be available to the police for Internet surveillance as a matter of urgency. If one woman or child is spared rape by increasing police resources, it is a worthwhile investment. Madam President! Today we read about two men's arrests, they've murdered 11 defenseless prisoners. As we read these increasingly terrible news, it is difficult to understand how we still have enough people to protect and defend the men who have invaded us, including criminals, military and prison fugitives and policemen. This bill must be speeded up, and anyone with any indication of Islamist terror, such as the use of ISIS symbols on Facebook, must be made a criminal activity. Madam President! I'll take over from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u491	Mr President! I too share Mr Hakkarainen's thanks. This bill, drawn up by Mr Heinonen, is an important step in the fight against terrorism and, as has been said, the threat of terrorism has increased, like the rest of Europe, here in Finland. Much of this is due to the current, rather uncontrolled migration crisis. Sad statements about terrorism, including the threat of terrorism, have been the attacks in Paris in November and, among other things, there has been a serious threat in Brussels since then. As Mr Heinonen said, people suspected of murder for terrorist purposes abroad have also been arrested in Finland this week. These arrests are, of course, very important to guarantee public security, but they also show that the capacity to combat terrorism in Finland must be further increased. Mr President! It has rightly been stated in this bill that a number of other European countries are trying to prevent people who have acquired citizenship from entering the battlefields held by terrorists. The same should be sought in Finland. In order to guarantee the security of our citizens, we must prevent terrorism by all reasonable means at our disposal. Mr President! One essential means is the criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist group, as set out in Mr Heinonen's meritably drafted bill. This is a good complement to the measures planned by the government. In conclusion, I would like to thank the representative. From this very important bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u492	Madam President! The autumn has been rather gloomy for terrorist attacks. The most important thing in everyone's consciousness is the drop of a Russian passenger plane and the terrorist attacks in Paris. True, these are terrible acts that must be prevented in advance. Currently, Finnish legislation does not provide the authorities with proper tools. We usually have to commit that crime before the police can intervene. Now that it criminalises membership of a terrorist organisation or the organisation of organised crime, it gives the police better means to intervene and thus prevent these atrocities. I believe that Mr Heinonen's bill is very necessary and should be dealt with as soon as possible and, if possible, adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u493	Mr President! Like Mr Heinonen, I have already been active on this issue during the last period, and Mr Heinonen has renewed his excellent legislative initiative, which, in my opinion, was to be implemented last season and this period at least. After all, the world has changed quite a bit since last season. This situation is quite different from that of last season. That is why the government is doing an excellent job, and I would particularly like to thank Minister Lindström. I hope that this part will be included in the excellent work and toolbox of Minister Lindström, which the government will then bring up here in due course. This situation simply needs to be brought under control, and this part is a good tool.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u494	Mr President! Mr Heinonen's presentation is more topical than it has been during the time of the initiative. Mr Heinonen has probably not even imagined that the world is going to this and that the situation is already what it is today. So the presentation is much more topical and more important to be there. The world with its sorrows and horrors is ever closer to us. A person who leaves Finland or thinks about terrorism can imagine going on an adventure. It is indeed a good thing that in Finland all matters relating to terrorism are criminalised in the sense that a young person, adventurous to realize that this is a crime, is indeed a punishable act and is by no means acceptable. Finland must now show outwards that we do not accept terrorism in any form. I therefore support Mr Heinonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u495	Madam President! When I first came here for the previous season, I was the first to warn against immigration and those problems, of course, in my own style. Then I told you about this Trojan horse, how it penetrates Western civilization in that way. That's a pretty good prophecy then. It's all come true what I said. I hope they do not come true, which have not yet come up. Punishments must also be severe. After all, conditional sentences have no practical meaning. Deportation and a lifetime ban on entry for both the perpetrator and his family would be a suitable punishment in its broader view. The law must extend not only to asylum seekers but also to those who have already managed to obtain a residence permit or even citizenship. Madam President! In this house, we make laws. The primary purpose of the laws must be to protect Finnish and Finnish life forms. We cannot and must not spend another day in this Chamber procrastinating and watching the tummies straight as these men rape, beat, stab the Finns and each other. Violence, theft, rape and harassment are every day and everywhere in Finland. Every day we read these in the papers, and we just tolerate them here, and he who puts and criticizes his finger there is condemned as racist. I don't understand these things. We have to give the key to the fact that the authorities have resources and backstows of strict legislation on everything related to terrorism. Only then will the police be able to protect our people so that we can live in peace in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u496	Madam President! I would like to thank the fellow Members who have been present here just before 3 p.m. and who have participated in this debate on the referral of my legislative initiative. The criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation is a matter which should now proceed as quickly as possible. This legislation on intelligence, which is now under way, has again demonstrated today that, for example, this case, which has now been raised in this debate, the so-called Forssa asylum seekers, would have been possible to detect earlier in the context of the intelligence legislation. But now let us put this matter of belonging to a terrorist organisation in order and then get these people out of the line as they possibly come back. They have acted in a terrorist organisation and must be a crime in a civilised state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u497	The 31st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u498	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! My bill concerns the amendment of Article 1 of the Act on the procedure for the release of long-term prisoners. Renewals of homicides and other violent and sexual crimes raise the need for risk assessments of released prisoners from time to time. A few years ago, a broader issue arose in connection with the so-called Porvoo case, when the perpetrator was only six months away from further homicides. Since then, the law and practice were changed, and since then, forensic psychiatrists have always assessed the risk of violence against life imprisonment prisoners when the prisoner is to be released on parole. Risk assessments have also been extended to other offenders serving their entire prison sentence. According to current practice, estimates are made for those who have served their entire sentence and those who are released from life imprisonment, but, for example, those convicted of manslaughter are usually released within the time limit after having completed a certain part of their sentence without a risk assessment. The risk assessment is a forensic psychiatry that evaluates the likelihood of a prisoner re-injuring violent crimes. The hazard assessment is always signed by a psychiatric specialist. A clinical psychologist, a social worker, a number of nurses who monitor the behaviour of the prisoner during the treatment period will also be involved in the evaluation. During the so-called Oulu pizza killing, the risk assessments were re-emphasised. The shooter had killed before and was sentenced to 11 years in homicide. He had only sat a third of this before he was released and a new crime. The question is whether a large risk assessment could have prevented the release of this criminal and this new crime. These considerations do not bring back the victims, but they are justified and appropriate for the future. Experts believe that risk assessments could prevent the risk of new crimes. It has also continued to be stated in public that prisoners who should be subjected to an extensive risk assessment are currently being released from prisons and also prisoners who should not be released by professionals, nor by prison guards who are part of the daily lives of these prisoners for a long time. It is therefore more than appropriate to extend the assessment of the danger to all types of violent crime which, however, have not led to life imprisonment or in which the entire sentence is not carried out by the prisoner. In 2010, the Government renewed its risk assessments as part of its own proposal. The current situation is that the Helsinki Court of Appeal asks for an assessment of the danger when the person ordered to execute the entire sentence in prison has served five-sixths of his sentence and applies for parole. The purpose of the risk assessment is therefore to determine whether the offender, on the basis of facts relating to his or her offences and other evidence of his or her person, is apparently to be regarded as being extremely dangerous to the life or health of another person. The risk assessments of prisoners performing their entire sentence have been carried out in two units of the psychiatric prison hospital, Turku and Vantaa. The study period lasts for a maximum of one month, and the studies involve a psychiatric specialist, psychologist and, if necessary, other staff. This issue has therefore been dealt with several times, both by the authorities and by Parliament. However, concern for the safety of bystanders is still evident in the case of some of the released prisoners. The latest case is the release of the Tuuli girl's murderer. This man raped a 13-year-old girl in Tampere in 1993 with a knife. He was sentenced to less than three years in prison, from which he was released in the autumn of 95. Just a few months after this, he committed his heaviest crime: in November 95, he killed a 15-year-old girl with a knife at the City of Tampere by hitting and cutting her several times. Ten years later, in June 2005, the prisoner got a short, few hours of unguarded leave. During that time, he sexually abused a small child. He was convicted of aggravated sexual abuse of a child. And now again, ten years later, a man gets paroled by court order. Freedom is coming next year in September, September 2016. The Criminal Sanctions Agency has opposed the release of the prisoner, but the court ruled otherwise. Thus, the sentenced person has been serving life imprisonment for nearly 20 years now, but has already committed another crime in the middle of his or her short term imprisonment. Nevertheless, according to the Court of Appeal, the long duration of the sentence is in favour of liberalisation and the crimes committed by him during his imprisonment cannot be regarded as a serious obstacle to liberalisation. According to the Court of Justice, 'the applicant's survival outside the prison is supported by his social network and also by his or her studies during his or her imprisonment'. The Court also stated that ‘the applicant does not drink alcohol and has no history of substance abuse’. This, too, was in favour of a man's release under the court order. The Criminal Sanctions Agency was still opposed to the release of the criminal it considered dangerous. However, Rise applied to the Court of Appeal for an appeal before the Supreme Court without obtaining it. Therefore, despite the opposition of the experts, freedom is coming in September 2016. The legislation now requires a change so that an application for parole is not brought before the court of appeal if the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency opposes the release or if an assessment of the prisoner's risk of acting violently does not support the release. The risk assessment must therefore continue to be a binding obstacle to liberalisation. Mr President! I have therefore submitted a draft law amending Article 1 of the Law on the procedure for the release of long-term prisoners. In its Article 1, in the application, the following paragraph is added: "The Court of Appeal shall reject the application if the Central Administrative Department of the Criminal Sanctions Agency objects to the release or if the assessment of the prisoner's risk of conduct is not in favour of the release." I have taken this initiative on 4 December this year and I hope that it will move forward quickly so that our daily lives will be safer for these criminals in the future too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u499	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Heino for this initiative. The aim of both this and several other legislative initiatives taken by Mr Heinonen is to tighten criminal law. I'm definitely on the same page. For too long we have been far too lax about a wide range of crime, and then on the other hand there are the types of crime of which the sentences to be imposed are very severe. A much tougher line must be taken on violent and sexual offences. Because the courts are too often making decisions using a lighter scale of existing laws, there is a need for tightening up across the board. This would eliminate the possibility that rape, for example, would only become conditional or unconditional for a few months. Madam President! The reasons for this initiative are so thorough that I do not need to go into any further detail here. However, I would like to quote a few words from the initiative: "According to current practice, estimates are made for those who have served their entire sentence and those who are released from life imprisonment, but, for example, those convicted of manslaughter are usually released within the time limit after having completed a certain part of their sentence without an assessment of the danger." For example, representative Heinonen has already brought up this pizza killing in Oulu. Madam President! Yes, such judgments test the public’s sense of justice. When three years of rapping comes from sitting in a hotel-level prison for killing a person, it is no wonder that many citizens wonder if there is a cheap life in Finland as well. So these crimes don't get away again... criminals do not get to kill and rape again; extensive risk assessments are needed. — — — — I'm getting a little tired. When we legislate here, we should all keep in mind that, in addition to domestic criminals, we now have tens of thousands of new immigrants. We generally know nothing about these asylum tourists and their backgrounds. All we have is their own, often unreliable, words. Every day we read more about the terrible evil they have brought to our country. If all that horror is handed down, and when the sentence is ended, you are easily free to continue criminal activity, our society will end up in chaos and anarchy. Madam President! I do not want to foment fear or discord, but I believe that we are already on our way to a point where nobody is going to be in control, not politicians or the police. If we continue on the same slurry, the anger of the people will grow even more. In addition, we send a signal to the countries of origin of these asylum tourists that you can do anything in Finland and get away with it. With these men who do not adapt to our culture and who will not adapt with any kind of integration, our crime statistics will explode. Anyone who believes and claims otherwise can take a look at what the Swedish statistics look like. It is the second most rape in the world, on average 16 times a day. The statistics looked quite different before Sweden made the big mistake of allowing certain citizens of the Middle East and Africa to march into their country. This autumn, a crisis unit for raped boys and men was opened in Sweden. There is no point in thinking that we would somehow be better off than Sweden. It's not gonna happen. That is why legislation needs to be tightened up as a matter of urgency. Madam President! Thank you again, Mr Heino, for this initiative. I am in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u500	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has once again drawn attention in this legislative initiative to an extremely important point which would improve both the concrete security of citizens and the sense of security they have experienced. The explanatory memorandum to this bill refers, among other things, to the extremely serious and serious series of homicides and sexual offences that began in Pirkanmaa in the 1990s against minors. Despite repeated crimes, the convicted person is being released next autumn, despite the fact that the Criminal Sanctions Agency, and I understand it to be a very well-founded cause, is opposed to the release of the prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment. Understandably, this liberation decision has given rise to considerable concern among the Pirkans. The debate has also been raised and the public has been surprised at the fact that the social network and study during the parliamentary term have been regarded as points in favour of liberalisation in the court of Appeal. This is not going to fit into a public sense of justice. Mr President! It is very difficult for me to believe that these or similar events are conducive to increasing the sense of justice in criminal convictions in the eyes of the public. The amendment proposed in the bill, according to which opposition or increased risk assessment by the central administration of the Criminal Sanctions Agency would be a binding obstacle to the release of the prisoner, is therefore highly desirable on the basis of the arguments put forward. On these grounds, I thank Mr Heino for this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u501	Mr President! The decisions of the courts must be such as to preserve the respect and respect of the people for them and Finnish law. I support the proposal that those people who are best acquainted with the case should be able to make the most of the decision. I therefore support the proposal which has been tabled and I hope that this matter will move forward. It is certainly not many cases each year, but these are important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-12-10-ps-79.u502	Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank you fellow Members of Parliament who have been until the end of the sitting. This is an important issue, and I think it is important that this could still be dealt with on the parliamentary side of this year, and that it can therefore be brought to the attention of the Committee on Legal Affairs. As I said, these legislative changes will not bring back these victims of crime, but if, with this bill and the amendment of the law, we can prevent the perpetrators from repeating these shocking acts, then we can sleep at night in peace. And hopefully in the future, nights can start a little earlier. I would also like to thank the President and others for this rather long session.
