ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Johanna Karimäki requests an exemption from the alternate member of the Staff Committee. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the Ombudsman's report on the activities of Parliament in 2014. Last year was 95 of the second oldest ombudsman institution in this world. the year of operation, and accordingly this report is the 95th Ombudsman's activity report. In substance, this report shows more prominently the rights of those who have lost their freedom and those with disabilities. In quantitative terms, more checks were carried out in the reporting year. The number of complaints decreased slightly and their handling times decreased further. The structure of the report is essentially similar to that of previous years. As in previous years, the report begins with the statements made by the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman on a subject of their own choice. Thus, 95 years have passed since the Ombudsman’s institution was set up in the reporting year. In my own speech, I will look at the development of the institution of the Ombudsman. I see, among other things, the Ombudsman's extensive powers and the continued development of the institution as a success factor for the institution of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has traditionally been the guardian of the legality of the activities of the authorities. The Ombudsman still is, but in addition to this, the Ombudsman's work is now focused on the promotion of individual rights, steering the activities of the authorities and developing the legal environment so that fundamental and human rights are realised as well as possible. The most recent developments have been the establishment of the Human Rights Centre and its Human Rights Delegation in the Office of the Ombudsman in 2012. This reform was carried out in particular to ensure that the whole body of the Ombudsman, the Centre for Human Rights and the Human Rights delegation met as well as possible the requirements of the UN's so-called Paris principles. This process, which began at the beginning of the 21st century, achieved its objectives in the reporting year when the Finnish National Institute for Human Rights received the A status. This means that the institution fully complies with the principles of the United Nations in Paris. This is very important not only within the UN, but also in the wider international context, and it is of great importance. Another important event for the institution as a whole was the fact that the Ombudsman became a national supervisory body for the UN Convention against Torture. It is a so-called OPCAT mission. In this role, the Ombudsman is responsible for monitoring the treatment and circumstances of persons who have lost their liberty. It is not only about prisoners, but also about the treatment and rights of children with child protection, elderly people with memory problems, psychiatric patients and people with mental disabilities, for example. The Ombudsman will now also be entrusted with specific tasks under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. After all, the previous Parliament has already adopted laws on this subject, but they have not yet entered into force until some other legislative reforms have been made. As a future need for development, I see the development of the division of duties between Parliament's Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice in such a way as to minimise duplication of tasks. The current overlapping system of two supreme judicial supervision is neither the most effective nor the most appropriate for citizens and society. I have briefly explained this at the end of my speech, i.e. at the end of my speech in that report. In his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Jussi Pa drinker addresses the challenges of digital public sector activity. In the digibarometer 2015 comparison, Finland will remain at the average level of the comparison countries in the public sector and citizens' skills. Schools are central to the teaching of information technology citizenship. The electronic matriculation examination starting in autumn 2016 requires the digitalisation of teaching already during the comprehensive school period. There are major differences in information technology skills and resources in schools. Digital education should be provided on an equal basis, but the priorities and resources of municipalities also vary widely. Finland is lagging behind in the productivity comparison of public services. Information system problems are currently occurring, for example, in the field of labour management and in the development of the Police Information System (Vytja). The Vitja project of the police was due to be completed by the beginning of 2014, but the project schedule failed. The project was too large to be carried out at one time. Assistant Ombudsman Pa drinker has asked the Ministry of the Interior to report separately on the progress of the Vitja project and on how legal and information security problems are to be resolved. Ms Sakslin's speech concerns the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights. According to the Court, the draft agreement is incompatible with Union law. Union law is based on mutual trust between Member States. According to the EU Court of Justice, it would be problematic if EU Member States were to ensure that other Member States also comply with the Convention on Human Rights. The EU has been criticised for its inadequate protection of fundamental and human rights, which is why both the Government and Parliament have considered the EU's accession to the Convention to be important. Parliament has proposed a stronger introduction of EU fundamental rights standards into Finnish authorities and courts and that Finland should also actively influence the fundamental rights positions of the EU Court of Justice. In the performance of his duties, the Ombudsman may contribute in various ways to the implementation of the rights of the Charter. Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin suggests that the Ombudsman should also participate in the evaluation of fundamental rights issues before the EU Court of Justice in Finland. Mr Sakslin considered that the delay in joining the ECHR underlines the importance of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights. Parliament has therefore supported the strengthening of the role and capacity of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights. Mr President! Following these interventions, the report provides an overview of the Ombudsman’s activities in 2014. It contains information on issues and measures, as well as on various domestic and international events. In 2014, around 4,600 complaints were received, which is somewhat less than in the record year of 2013 when around 5,000 complaints were received. It should be noted that this year, that is to say in 2015, we are back at record speed with regard to the number of complaints. After all, the number of complaints has increased throughout the 21st century, and over the last 10 years their annual number has doubled. Some 4,750 complaints were resolved during the reporting year, i.e. about 150 more than they were received. I am also pleased to say that we have remained within the target of time to deal with complaints. At the turn of the year, there were no complaints pending more than one year ago. This goal was first achieved one year earlier, then for the first time in 20 years. About one in five of all resolved complaints and own initiatives led to one ombudsman’s measure. The number of inspections carried out last year was 111, which is almost 25 per cent more than in the previous year. The next broad section of the report, i.e. number 3, deals with fundamental and human rights. This section has gradually become more and more widespread, reflecting the change in the focus of the Ombudsman's activities on the enforcement of public authorities' responsibilities towards the promotion of human rights. The new point in this section is that the Ombudsman's activities as the national supervisory body against torture, i.e. that OPCAT function, have been covered by that section, that section 3.3. As in previous years, the fundamental and human rights section has reported on the Ombudsman's fundamental and human rights mandate and the Human Rights Centre and its activities. The Centre for Human Rights also gives its own report, but it is not a Parliament document and it is not dealt with in the same way as the Ombudsman's report. This section also highlights shortcomings and improvements in the implementation of fundamental and human rights, as well as the Ombudsman's proposals for compensation and the issues leading to amicable solutions. These issues are not necessarily large, but they reflect the new ways in which the Ombudsman's office has adopted them and also the fact that people can also be helped to gain access to their rights through simple and rapid measures. The section also deals with the theme of basic and human rights of the year. After all, every year we have a chosen theme of fundamental and human rights, which will be raised, among other things, in the context of all inspections. The theme of the report was the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities. The section also includes a systematic overview by fundamental rights of the Ombudsman’s findings and statements based on complaints and own initiatives resolved in the reporting year and on the information received during the verification visits. Finally, the section presents all complaints against Finland in the reporting year before the European Court of Human Rights. The fourth section is the most extensive, administrative or case-by-case section of the findings made in the field of law enforcement. The figures for the number of complaints received by the group and the percentage of measures taken are included in each category. In this section, it is new that the rights of persons with disabilities have been set up in a separate category, once they have previously been dealt with by other categories. This reform relates precisely to the specific role that the Ombudsman is assuming in the protection, promotion and control of the rights of persons with disabilities. This particular task has thus been foreseen. Finally, there is an annex to the report which contains the provisions of the Constitution and of the law on the Ombudsman and certain statistical and other information. Mr President! This is my presentation. I hope that this report will enable Parliament to assess not only the Ombudsman's activities but also the state of legislation and public administration and the implementation of fundamental and human rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u4	Mr President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for your speech. We are therefore dealing with the 2014 report. The 2013 report, which was discussed last year, contained ten points where the Ombudsman had intervened, in which there were many instances of maladministration, and the same ten paragraphs remain in this 2014 report. There have also been improvements, they can be found on page 76, but there are still problems. I find it extremely worrying that this issue of the elderly and the elderly does not seem to be coming to an end, neither in Parliament nor in society. The savings are also at our door, which means that there are also hard and critical times in the care of the elderly. The problems of hygiene care and, among other things, outdoor activities are still mentioned here, which we can now imagine being the right of everyone: to get out during the summer, especially yet. In other words, it is very important that we raise these issues both here and in the municipalities as decision-makers, that we take awareness there and that we raise these issues to ensure that older people have good ageing. There is a record in the Government Programme of strengthening the overall assessment of medical treatment, and the Ombudsman has also intervened here. On the other hand, progress has been made in assessing the urgency of treatment. It is reported here that due to an obstruction in the airways, the patient has had to wait too long to see a doctor, and Valvira has been considered whether such clear national guidance on the urgency of treatment should be developed. There is also a reminder here about the possibility of free access to informal care, which is a great thing. And the delivery of the treatment guarantee: Even though complaints have decreased, there have been problems in getting to a family counselling centre and oral care, among other things. Also Valvira has intervened and reminds us of the so-called rubber band phenomenon in which Valvira imposes fines on medical districts within a certain period of time, and then when the medical districts fix things, there will be no fines, Finally, I would like to highlight this disabled... [President MariaLohela : Representative,2minutesto be completed. We should move to this toilet if we want to continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u7	Mr President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for a thorough and well-managed report. The implementation of the rights of people with disabilities chosen as the theme of the year is very timely. The Ombudsman's report has well pointed out that there are shortcomings in the implementation of fundamental and human rights for citizens. Of course, progress has also been made, but I would like to highlight a couple of particularly important shortcomings here. It is sad that there are still so many shortcomings in the care and care of the elderly. The lack of food, hygiene, rehabilitation and outdoor activities as well as the replacement of inadequate personnel with over-medication are constantly evident. For example, people with memory disorders are made into bedliners by giving them tranquilizers when nurses do not have the time or knowledge to implement non-medicated treatments. When the Government Programme is implemented, it will not improve this situation, as recommendations on human resources in the units of enhanced service housing will be reduced and the eligibility conditions of the personnel will be reduced. The Government Programme emphasises the priority of home care, but at the same time it has forgotten that improved service housing is also home living. If people working in home care, including in enhanced service housing in a so-called community home do not have the opportunity to do rehabilitative work, the elderly person will easily remain in bed and have to undergo long-term institutional care. The Ombudsman also highlights the shortcomings in the exercise of self-determination in the care of older people. Hopefully, the government will quickly bring a law on self-determination before Parliament, which will define, for example, the use of restrictive measures. The unnecessary use of sedatives, among other things, is a chemical restriction. On the other hand, no law will help unless there is an adequate framework for its implementation. The right to self-determination will be very difficult to implement if the staff compositions decrease and the level of education falls. Mr President! There are also many shortcomings and violations of self-determination in the implementation of the rights of people with disabilities. The final report of the working group on the reform of disability legislation has just been completed and the working group is proposing a law on special services on the basis of disability. The purpose of this law would be to supplement the new Social Welfare Act adopted last season. The municipality should provide special services under the law if the disabled person does not receive services in accordance with an individual need under another law. If implemented, the law would significantly improve the inclusion and equality of people with disabilities in society. It is a question of the human rights of people with disabilities, which is therefore also a matter of concern to the Ombudsman. I hope the government intends to implement this important legislative reform. Unfortunately, when I read the Government Programme, I was left with a skeptical and questioning mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-12-ps-20.u8	Madam President! Parliamentary Ombudsman and representatives in the Chamber! There would have been a great many points that I could have taken alone in the debate, but at the beginning I took page 75 and looked at this in the report and I looked at the ten main problems of basic and human rights in Finland, of which Mr Arja Juvonen has just spoken. When I read these points — and I also listened to the fact that, unfortunately, these same problems as they still exist last year — I found that, terribly often, the problems were highlighted by the lack of internal control and the lack of resources for action and the lack of sub-resources in many areas. This is precisely the problem behind it. I am well aware that human rights agreements and respect for them are very important, but we should remember what is behind them. I myself have worked in the court for a long time and as an official, and I know how there are very high moral people out there who are trying to do their job well. Obligations are increasing, reporting is increasing, for example, the Regional State Administrative Agencies are constantly becoming different machines to which our working hours go, to which we have to report whether we have just done a paid task, a free task, what that call was about, whether it was a matter that leads to a decision, or whether it was a matter where the customer only asked for advice, and then I sit around the machine for five minutes and I wonder what locker I would put on this recent call. I want to ensure that we are now in a hurry with our standards. We must reduce the unnecessary tasks of the authorities, including unnecessary monitoring tasks. I mentioned earlier, for example, my own view that the audit of public interest in the Local Register Office is too heavy and too regular and should be reformed. For example, there are man-years to be released. This would allow us to re-establish the role of the Court of Justice in other agencies and to exempt court proceedings. I think it is very important that human rights agreements are respected. But we should remember that those people in the background are doing many of their best, but if we don't give them the tools from this Parliament, but we keep putting more obligations on them, more reporting obligations from the supervisory authorities, then they will fall there under their work. I would now like to draw attention to such a point, since, of course, it is probably the case that the complaints authority only has negative issues about the authorities, that there were examples of good progress here. There were two pages of them, and then 300 pages of everything negative. I know that this has, of course, focused on this issue on the basis of complaints, but we would have to remember that people's working there too, sometimes we could tell about the good handling times and what actually happened there more. I myself at least wonder when I read these and have read them in my office, that there always comes a feeling that I was working again for a year and yet I have somehow failed so badly here in the administration. Then we must remember that it was stated here on page 78 that fundamental and human rights are not always taken seriously. This is probably true for some people, but personally I have experienced that very many officials take them very seriously. Of course, education is needed, as is stated here, but I will return to the fact that, in the midst of a hurry, some very small technicalities may be forgotten, there is no time. It is not deliberate indifference to human rights. Furthermore, we should consider whether we could do something about the complaint system, for example, if there should sometimes be some value limits. Of course, in procedural situations, it is very difficult. But the other day I read the decision of an ombudsman of Parliament, a court in which a client had requested a decision on the court, stating that he wanted it. Well, the district secretary had sent it and an 8-euro bill. Well, then the customer complained that he didn't want to pay for it, they didn't ask him if he wanted a free solution. Well, this complaint was then answered by the District Secretary, the District Judge and then by the Lamanni, and then handled by two people in the Parliamentary Ombudsman's office. I personally know this laymann, and he told me that when there was such a hurry at some point when there were imprisoned complaints and others and it was 10 o’clock in the evening, I wanted to tell the client that you would take this EUR 8, our district secretary did not realize this. However, a remark came from the Parliamentary Ombudsman. We should go to the reality one day: how small things they are and how small things we study. There are no very large violations of human rights there, there are large formal regulations and important regulations being complied with. But we're really in a hurry right now with these volunteers. We need to cut back on the work of these people and this pointless reporting so that we do not have to think about what I am doing right now. Let us take this seriously during this term of government, so that our officials are able, because if we want competent district judges, competent officials, it must also be a good job. It's not supposed to be the kind of job you can just call yourself. - Thank you.
