ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Ms Vehkaperä has requested exemption from membership of the Committee on Transport and Communications. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mirja Vehkaperä requests exemption from membership of the Committee on Culture. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u3	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. Ms Mirja Vehkaperä is asking for exemption from membership of the Committee on the Environment. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u4	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. Arto Pirttilahti requests exemption from membership of the Legal Committee. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u5	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u6	Mr President! During the reporting year, Kela has implemented well its plan of action to be involved in life and change as support. The Social Insurance Institution is an independent social security institution under the supervision of the Parliament, and the supervision of Kela is carried out by the elected officials appointed by the Parliament and their elected auditors. The report now under discussion is a report which, according to the law, will be submitted to Parliament annually, and this report will cover the year 2014. This report is from the previous Kela delegates; the new delegates for this period were elected in June. First of all, I would like to say that due to the weak economic situation in our country and also due to some of the historical reforms and changes in Kela, the working pressure in Kela has been severe, but in summary, Kela has managed well in a demanding situation. Kela achieved the goals of the period of application, despite the fact that the number of applications for unemployment benefit and housing allowance increased considerably. Operating expenses also remained under control during the reporting year. Of course, the central government adjustment measures will also apply to Kela, and operating expenditure has been reduced from 2015 to a saving of EUR 15 million since 2016, but savings have already been pro-active in the reporting year and economic discipline will continue. At the end of the year, Kela's service network included 24 insurance districts and 186 offices, with approximately 6,000 employees. What is good to say is that the indicators of employee well-being at work remained at a good level and the development of personnel competence was invested in. The benefit expenditure of social security managed by Kela totalled EUR 14 billion, and it is essential to note that the income of the defined benefit funds was approximately EUR 14.5 billion and increased by around 4 per cent from the year before. As regards Kela's tasks, the basic income support will be transferred to Kela at the beginning of 2017, and the preparation for a new task has been started in Kela by building information systems. Satisfaction with Kela's services is generally at a good level, and it is good to note that more and more of Kela's customers are doing their business online and more than half of the applications were made online. The new Kela programme was completed in the year of the activity report, and it is essential to note that the projects of the programme were primarily aimed at improving customer service. Kela's Kanta-palvelut unit implements and develops the national information system services of social welfare and health care in cooperation with THL. A matter often discussed by Parliament, the direct reimbursement of taxi journeys: it was extended to the whole country during the reporting year, with the exception of Åland, and the combined travels saved around EUR 10 million during the reporting year.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u9	Madam President! Kela's activity report says that Kela's operations have been very efficient in 2014. Operating costs have remained contained, and the objectives of the period of application were largely achieved despite the fact that the number of applications for unemployment benefit and housing allowance increased considerably due to the poor economic situation in our country. However, Kela has worked under working pressure but, despite this, managed well in a demanding situation. The three-year towards a new Kela programme has been completed. A large number of development projects and reforms have been successfully carried out, which improve the service and increase the efficiency of operations. For example, clearer customer letters, the possibility of sending attachments to applications online and the introduction of an appointment booking service are reforms that have been reported to be visible as a more fluent customer service. More and more Kela customers do their business online. Research has also been carried out in Kela. The key themes of the research were research related to income support, the future of health insurance, support for informal care, strengthening participation in working life, integration of immigrants and assessing the targeting and impact of rehabilitation organised by Kela. The Research Department produced information on, among other things, the adequacy of the income security provided by Kela and Kela's customers, as well as on the living conditions, poverty and social exclusion of people dependent on basic security and income support in Finland and elsewhere in Europe. Madam President! Research has been very diverse and it is desirable that research has produced useful information. This is always the starting point of the investigation. However, Kela's number of employees has decreased and the number of replacements and temporary employees has been limited. It is always good to keep track of the staff. It will also be very important in the future, looking at Kela.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u10	Madam President! I have been Kela's delegate for about eight years, and I must say that I have been very pleased with Kela's activities in this regard, even though the messages that citizens bring from Kela's activities are individual flaws that need to be addressed, and for that, among other things, Kela's delegates work. The Social Insurance Institution (Kela) provides social security for people living in Finland in different life situations. The purpose of Kela’s operations is: “Living along — in support of changes.” In general, Kela's operations are very much guided by the general situation of society. Finland's central government finances have been in deficit since 2009. The deficit in local government finances has continued since 2001. It is estimated that economic development will continue to be difficult for years to come. Unemployment has continued to grow for a long time, which in turn has contributed to the fact that different Kela benefits expenditures have increased year after year, year after year. This was also the case in 2014. The fiscal adjustment measures have also contributed to structural changes. The tasks of municipalities have been transferred to Kela, such as maintenance allowance and interpretation services for disabled people. The Parliament has also decided that the basic part of the income support will be paid by Kela in 2017. The transfer of the allowance for informal care to Kela has also been examined in connection with the national informal care programme, but it is currently waiting for its time. Mr President! I'm going to get involved in a few things. I am very concerned about the funding of Kela, not only about expenditure, but also about revenue. At present, Kela's income consists of the following: the central government share was 69 per cent, the share of health insurance contributions 25 per cent, the municipalities 5 per cent, the share of other income 1 per cent. Mr President! I will raise this point because it is also a question of the future. I take great concern as Kela's delegate and as a Member of Parliament as to how Kela's funding will be secured in the future, as the Board of Directors is cutting the funding from health insurance by up to EUR 950 million, according to Kela's estimate. This is similar to the EUR 1 billion cut a few years ago, i.e. the write-off of the Kela payment, which was financed by the Government with an additional debt. This is how the government undermines Kela’s basic funding. My question to the government is: how is this missing part of Kela's funding financed? We must not undermine people's right to basic security. We must not risk the rights of people to receive the benefits they deserve. These are low incomes, sick people, pensioners, unemployed people and those who work in need of occupational health care. Mr President! I would have liked to have had one of the ministers here to answer this important question. This will certainly continue to be the case. Mr President! Another issue which I hope we will follow as parliamentarians is the study carried out by the Social Insurance Institution, which has been very important and has also supported the work of our parliamentarians in many areas. One of the key themes of research was research related to income support. This is very acute for us parliamentarians, this information when we make decisions on income support in the future. The future of health insurance, of which I have just spoken, support for informal care, strengthening participation in working life, integration of immigrants and the targeting and assessment of rehabilitation in Kela — all of which are topical issues for which Kela has contributed to producing good research material. The Research Department also produced information on the adequacy of the income security provided by Kela and the customers of Kela, as well as on the living conditions, poverty and social exclusion of people living on the basis of basic security and livelihood in Finland. This will include, among other things, housing allowance indices for pensioners and health insurance allowances. I hope that this study and research will continue to be carried out, because it is very important to us as we deal with the budget during the coming autumn, for example. I am not going to go into details for you at the moment, because they are available in an annex to the activity report, but I hope that you will be able to look into them, because it will allow us to get all the good information we need on matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u11	Mr President! Representative Kiljunen went through the big picture of Kela, the money — where it comes from, what it is used for — and also paged who Kela’s customers are. And it is quite true that Kela’s customers are many people who cannot control their own rights: there are many elderly people, disabled people, sick people. I ask, however, when there are those Members of Parliament who are on the subject: has Kela had any discussion among the delegates, or at least in Kela, about how these customers will be able to cope, for example, in the event of recovery? It reminds me of the case of Inari, where a person with memory problems had previously been admitted to treatment in Oulu and had been replaced by those trips, but without any prior warning — the customer imagined that the former rights would continue — a recovery was launched this year. However, even on the basis of the protection of legitimate expectations, the customer had every reason and right to assume that he had former rights, and now he is being charged several thousand euros back.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u12	Madam President! Mr Kiljunen was concerned that, when these social security contributions are changed and thus the funding received by Kela is reduced, it threatens the right of various low-income people to receive these benefits. Mr Kiljunen's concern is, of course, totally unfounded. What an unemployed or sick or disabled person receives from Kela is determined by the Parliament according to different laws and laws, and this right is not affected by Kela’s right to receive compensation in accordance with these interests, nor by how it is financed, how much of these social security contributions come from, and how much comes from, for example, directly through the state budget. In the long run, Kela's funding and the financing of Finnish society as a whole is most threatened if unemployment continues to grow. Of course, these government measures are aimed at improving employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u13	Madam President! Of course, this is what we hope will happen, because that is what we are doing. But through its practical process, there have been risk situations in which this continuity of funding has not worked in the desired way. The second thing that is caused by this government decision to facilitate social security contributions from private employers is that it puts the public employer and the private employer in an unequal position. With this decision, private employers will benefit some EUR 950 million and thus their social security contributions will be reduced, but the public sector social security contributions will remain unchanged. In this way, the government differentiates between employers depending on whether they are a public employer or private employers. This is also the policy of the government which, in my opinion, is untenable and not in any way justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u14	Mr President! It is valuable that we have a debate on the activities of the Social Insurance Institution. It is also valuable that we have a general debate on this state's economic situation and on our employment development. Of course, it is quite clear that it is essential that Finns have jobs and livelihoods, and hence tax revenue, which then also finances these benefits, which are implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. It is good that these aspects of this funding are being raised. This is where the former vice-president of the Kela delegates raised these issues. We are also collecting here in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where this report is being heard, the issues that can then be dealt with more deeply there. There was concern about recovery here, and that is something to look at. On the basis of this debate, too, we new Kela delegates will see what is going on, especially at the meeting of the delegates there. But in this debate I also wish to speak about this form of report. It is a very responsible task to monitor
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u15	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi raised a very important question, that is, these humanely unfortunate recovery situations, and asked whether there has been a debate among Kela's delegates or in committee. I myself am a very recent Kela delegate, so I cannot say what has been discussed before, but at least the committee has taken note of this. And now that the Ministry of Finance is preparing for this national income register, it is desirable that it will reduce such unfortunate recovery situations, as the register gathers information not only on citizens' benefits but also on their incomes. This would allow benefits to live at the same pace as incomes, so it would then be desirable to avoid recovery, for example, for students or pensioners and other citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u16	Madam President! There are Kela’s delegates and I am sure there are experts here, and I am a little puzzled by something I would like to receive tutoring. In my opinion, when the payment and calculation of basic income is transferred to Kela from 2017 onwards, and the municipalities have an increased responsibility, 50-70% of long-term unemployment, then this employment should always be a priority. And the second is that bureaucracy and all the activities should always be pursued through a one-stop shop. Can you clarify how this cooperation will now be played with Kela and then with the municipal social workers? And do you consider it realistic that this activity in the local government sector is actually generating savings of 80 million? How have you dealt with this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u17	Mr President! This issue raised a great deal of debate last season in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I must say that we were concerned about how the many issues of low-income citizens who need help will then be dealt with in the future when the basic element of income support is transferred to Kela. The committee stated at the time that we consider it necessary to monitor whether, in future, people will then receive enough of this social support through cooperation between Kela and social services. And that is where these procedures were recorded in the law, how people who repeatedly or for a long time need this income support will, in future, receive all the help of the variety,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u18	Mr Salonen, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Tolppanen and Mr Sarkomaa have asked for answers. After that, we will have to suspend the plenary session due to the large committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u19	Mr President! Kela’s delegates changed this report on the basis of the feedback received from the previous Parliament and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and now a lot of important information has been added here, which was most recently sought by Members of Parliament. Among other things, there are good facts about the housing allowance for the pensioner here, which I hope will also be read by the members of the board. The pensioner's housing allowance was paid EUR 500 million and this amount has been increasing, with nearly 200,000 pensioners receiving housing allowance from the pensioner. According to Kela's estimates, the transition of the pensioner's housing allowance to the general housing allowance will now result in savings of EUR 123 million. Yesterday, however, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, said that savings of EUR 90 million would be cut to 60 million. Differences of this size do have a significant impact on what it is in the life of a pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u20	Mr President! About this recovery. Kela has made such a change in its operations that it is no longer possible to repay overpaid social benefits on the basis of a payment plan if the person’s income is below the basic part of the income support. This leads to these overpaid benefits going into enforcement and, as a general rule, creates a default mark. I think it should be possible that the payment plan will also allow people with little means to pay back these overpaid benefits, because the lack of credit is a huge tragedy for people and also an incentive trap for employment and will result in exclusion for people. So I would hope that the new Kela delegates will pay attention to this matter and that this well-meaning guidance by Kela itself might be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u21	Madam President! Firstly, this housing allowance for pensioners. Now it has to be remembered that the last time the housing allowance for pensioners was changed, it was then that when the pensioner's housing allowance was determined it was taken into account their property. This is not taken into account on the general housing allowance side. In other words, if a pensioner has small property, he or she is entitled to housing allowance on the side of the general housing allowance, even if he or she was not entitled to housing allowance on the side of the housing allowance for pensioners. I also made one of those little comparisons. I took out a thousand dollars like that from a hat that a person gets in a month. Then, if housing costs are EUR 380, housing allowance was EUR 280 on the general housing allowance side and EUR 190 on the pensioner housing allowance side. That is to say, there will be an additional EUR 90 on the pensioner's side. It must be remembered that housing allowance is not determined in this country on the side of the general housing allowance but on the squares.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u22	Mr President! With regard to this transfer of income support to Kela, preparations have begun. The system prepares information systems, but the transfer is very diverse. When you look at the report prepared by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there are indeed many concerns that were also addressed in that speech. I know that there is a great deal of effort and it is still necessary to assess whether other legislative changes are needed here to achieve that objective. A particular concern is whether the people who need help and support in particular will receive its assistance and support in the future. We also need to remind ourselves of the record of Prime Minister Sipilä's government programme, which means that the government re-evaluates the functions and obligations of the municipalities so that public expenditure does not increase — there is also a reform of the Income Support Act, which means that this matter is under way. However, it is clear that Kela’s delegates are following this closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-09-11-ps-32.u23	The 8th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 15 September 2015.
