ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u1	The second point of order is the Prime Minister's announcement of the abolition of standards. Group speeches after the Prime Minister's presentation may take up to 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u2	Madam President, ärade talman! The Prime Minister's announcement brings topical issues to the Parliamentary debate. The current issue, both at home and in the EU, is to restore competitiveness and agility by giving up over-regulation. The Government's objective is to put Finland on the road to sustainable growth and employment. Finland’s direction changes only by working, entrepreneurship and activity. Those obstacles must be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u3	Mr President! Most of us have been doing these standards and regulations both here in Parliament and in the municipal councils, some of us for a long time, and we ourselves must also take up this task which the government is now setting the course for. And it can be said that when you have no money, then you have to be able to do things differently, use creativity, and in this respect a kind of liberalisation is the way to get the best out of people and businesses. Even now, we have a lot of investment projects in Finland that are waiting and waiting for authorisation. We have a lot of unrealized ideas. Now we really need this liberalisation. I think that each of us has heard examples of what kind of excesses have been created: On Monday we read about café entrepreneurs who wanted to set up a summer café downstairs in Käpylä, and investments of EUR 100,000 were needed for air conditioning, sound insulation, hygiene. Last week we had a change in the planning of one plot owned by the municipality in Rajamäki at the Nurmijärvi Municipal Council, where the use would have been changed from commercial and residential building to public service property. 80 pages of studies and formula reports were required, most of which were required by the State authorities. The formula officer told me that he felt that this would have had to be done with a single strip, and I agree. Back in the day, a couple sent me a letter, bought a tower that had probably been inhabited and made and raised for a hundred years. Now they would expand it a little, but the demands of the authorities required that it should not be warmed up in winter. I'll tell you why. All of this type brings costs to a stage in this society and economy. It slows down the projects. It weakens and reduces competition. It will weaken competitiveness. There will be no business, no jobs will be created. It suppresses self-activity. In modern times, as this digitalisation, this new technology develops, we should be a laboratory in which new methods, products and services can be tested and commercialised that can become a success in the world. And this also requires that this standard environment be loosened in such a way that the best ideas can come true. The central parliamentary group supports the Government's thinking that security should be taken care of, naturally, but we do not need over-protection. You may be able to count on the coffee shop’s customers on their feet to vote on whether there is enough air conditioning in the summer café, or that the authorities may not have to think about where a couple wants to live for the days of their old age. The central parliamentary group considers this theme and topic and task to be one of the most important issues of this four-year period. We have a huge job here. We ourselves have set up these working groups, which, for their part, will feed the government and ministries, also collect ideas from the citizens, do the same work that has been done in this Parliament during the last parliamentary term. Seven themes have been selected in the Government Programme, in which this dismantling of standards is carried out in particular. They are well-chosen, relevant to economic and employment and entrepreneurship progress, to the introduction of new technologies, but there are also issues that go into the everyday lives of citizens and the opportunities for non-governmental organisations to operate and thus create the conditions for a better sense of community. I think that we as legislators should remember that each standard ultimately has its price tag and it must be calculated. There will be no jobs, no ideas will come true. There's a lot of people's dreams that just stay a dream. That is why the general instructions, at least from the centre's parliamentary group to the government, are that more freedom should now be allowed. At this early stage, the government will score a full score that it has approached this issue with this seriousness and has now announced the Prime Minister's announcement of the most important theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u4	Mr President! A Finnish song sings: "Kone, don't clot. Don't freeze now." If what, we also hope for Finnish society, that the machine will not clot. However, investment, entrepreneurship and employment are constrained by increased regulatory and authorisation procedures. Over the decades, the culture and the rule jungle of municipalities and the state have grown to the point where we are forced to start grubbing up, or our machines will indeed be frozen. Too much regulation has weakened our competitive position. If we are to succeed in international competition and, for example, attract new activity in the form of domestic and foreign investment in our country, we can no longer continue along this slow path of bureaucracy and passages. Today, the situation is that decisions on financial investment authorisations may have to wait for up to years. At the moment, hundreds of millions, even billions of euros, are lying in the wheel of our bureaucracy. In the worst case scenario, the ordinary citizen has to deliver a flag and a note from one door to the other several times and carry out inspections to carry out even a small project, whether it has to do with construction, occupation, entrepreneurship or almost anything. Almost everything is strictly regulated and practices can vary significantly from one municipality to another. How, then, have we come to this situation? Unfortunately, the answer is that much of what we do is for our own sake. A good example of how things should not be controlled in all their horrors is our country's environmental permit bureaucracy. Our country requires a permit for 18,000 different activities affecting the environment, i.e. 18,000 different permits. The Swedes manage by around 5,000, and the EU requires only 2000 authorisation procedures. It can therefore be argued and concluded that our regulatory jungle has largely been raised on its own at national level. The most regrettable thing about this country's way of controlling environmental permit matters is overlap and slowness. Madam President! This government has therefore decided to start what should have been started years ago, i.e. to start a process that will result in a new kind of Finland, a Finland in which it is easier to breathe, a country in which there is no need to carry out a regulatory marathon such as the one currently in place for companies' financial investments and projects carried out by private individuals. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is important that the causes of regulatory bureaucracy are addressed in a way that brings rapid results. Seven points, the first point being that all regulation must be dealt with and that unnecessary and overlapping regulation must be abandoned. The second point is that it is necessary to see from which authorisation procedures can be transferred to the notification or registration procedure. Three: time limits must be set for authorisation processing periods. The fourth point is to move on to the one-stop shop principle. Fifth point: governance must be developed in such a way that licensing authorities do not choose decisions taken by other licensing authorities. Point six: The Government must clarify the role of ely, avi and municipal officials and clarify the way in which the administration operates. We welcome greater freedom for municipalities to implement and organise their services, but at the same time we must ensure that practices do not differ too much between municipalities. Seventh point: Last but not least, business dealings with the tax authorities must be made smoother, for example with regard to speed of business and binding preliminary tax rulings. Madam President! There must be room for experimentation and new ideas. It is clear that not all experiments are always successful, but it must be borne in mind that one successful experiment can be far greater in economic terms than a few failures. If we don't have the courage to renew, despite the good wishes, our plane can crash. Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my wish to all Members of Parliament: work together to reform Finland's standards and reduce red tape. Congressmans, let's keep this plane running together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u5	Madam President! Regulatory Finland has reached the end of its path. Removing and rationalising standards is a very important theme for the assembly. Last season, our minister, Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, was both raising the subject of a broad debate and leading a group of better regulation between parties. A reform of the Environmental Protection Act, for example, was also carried out under his leadership, which is expected to reduce the number of permit processes by around 20%. It is extremely important that we continue on the road to a smoother Finland this season. In the current government programme, the dismantling of standards is rightly a cross-cutting theme in a number of key projects and policies. The Assembly's Parliamentary Group fully supports all agreed policies and looks forward to their ambitious implementation in order to maximise the benefits for citizens and business. The aim is to promote investment and strengthen employment and the conditions for economic growth. The aim is also to enable the provision of public services to people in a cost-effective, high-quality and best practice manner. The dismantling of standards and the streamlining of regulation are key means of achieving these and many other objectives. Better regulation means both improving the quality of future regulation and critical screening of existing regulation. It also means improving the quality of impact assessments. Legal changes or new regulations should not entail costs that result in loss of profitability or job losses for companies. In the Government Programme, both the streamlining of the public sector's own operating standards and the reduction of the regulatory burden on the private sector are very much involved. At its most difficult stage, the standard creates both a nuisance for the private operator and costs for the taxpayer when compliance with standards needs to be controlled and monitored. Examples include the monitoring of hairdressing prices or alcohol advertising. Mr President! The Government Programme has also set a target for net deregulation. This means that if new regulation comes, then at the same time the old regulation must be dismantled to at least the same extent. The most important, however, are the effects, rather than the number of paragraphs. A thousand smart ones is better than a hundred bad ones. Moreover, not all standards are in vain. For example, the level of environmental protection must continue to be ensured. Regulation imposes too much administrative burden on businesses. Production, sales and jobs will be lost when simply meeting the demands of the administration will cost billions each year. I think it would make more sense for everyone to use that resource in productive use to bring well-being to the Finns. It is good that the spirit of standards has a comprehensive effect on the Government Programme. It applies to all sectors from agriculture, forestry, industry, construction, trade to public and private services and voluntary activities. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party stresses that no area has been excluded from the standards in advance. The dismantling of standards is the removal of barriers to entry and the reduction of operational restrictions. It may mean a substantial increase in the number of squares of large-scale retail regulation, a simplification of restaurant legislation or a reduction or replacement of sector-specific licensing by notification. It may be a quantitative relaxation or elimination of needs in highly regulated sectors, such as transport or pharmacy. Better functioning markets and more free competition will keep prices under control, and consumers will thank you. A good concrete opening in the Government Programme is the liberalisation of the opening hours of trade. The trader, or ultimately the customer, is the only person who is right to decide when to keep the store open and when to close it. For example, the waiver of exceptional exemption requirements for certain holidays should be carried out in such a way as to allow shops to keep their doors open when customers, such as tourists, are on the move. The clearest thing would be to repeal the entire business time law. Better regulation means cutting red tape towards citizens or businesses. As a good example, you can use the one-stop-shop principle, which is a very strict entry in the Government Programme. The same question may only be asked of a citizen or company once. We have wondered whether a service promise on permit processes could mean that if there was no decision on the issue of the permit within a certain time limit, the authorisation would automatically be considered to have been granted. The Coalition Party's parliamentary group encourages the government to make bold and radical reforms to dismantle unnecessary standards and unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u6	Mr President, värderade talman! We need better regulation in Finland. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's government has taken on an important issue. Pursuing better regulation is an issue in which the Social Democrats give the government their full support and are prepared to cooperate. It is clear that the lives of each of us are regulated in some way. When we sit in the car, most of us fasten our seat belt. In the 1960s, Finland's roads may have driven a thousand and a hundred without safety belts. The number of deaths in traffic rose so high that President Urho Kekkonen whistled over the game. In Finland, the driver stops at the stop sign. Day care centres have enough staff to take care of our children. Employers and employees comply with the rules of working life. These are examples of good regulation aimed at increasing safety in people's everyday lives. The Social Democrats are in favour of regulation that is reasonable for the individual, who trusts the individual, who also gives people freedoms and who looks to the future. In the opinion of the SDP, standards should be aimed at enabling instead of patronising. Therefore, the regulation that people feel as guardians must be looked at critically. Criticism means that regulation and standards are considered from an individual perspective, as well as from an investment and employment perspective. The impact must be carefully assessed. That is why the Social Democrats offer a hand in cooperation with the government. We hope that the government will continue to prepare better regulation as parliamentary cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u7	Mr President! The world is changing. It would be foolish if we did not at times assess what regulation is, what is unnecessary or outdated. Through strict regulations and interpretations, we ourselves have created unnecessary bureaucracy, complicated even simple things and killed creativity. If a small village party requires hygiene passports, marshals, security plans and noise reports, you do not have to be surprised that there are no volunteers as before, especially when you can do otherwise. Restaurant Day is a good example of successful deregulation. This has resulted in the creation of a voluntary community event throughout the country, even around the world. Mr President! It is important to keep in mind why they were originally created. Norm is not a curse word. They are designed to protect people and the environment, to guarantee the good quality of services and products. Many standards fulfill their purpose. There's something to cut down on in the norm, but you shouldn't go to the wild west. Norms are not only a factor that complicates business activity, but can also be a competitive advantage. Legal acts and authorisation procedures provide consumers with a guarantee of quality and professionalism. In addition to the clean environment, strong environmental standards ensure a pioneering position for Finnish equipment manufacturers in the growing global market for cleantech. Our clean water and our strong expertise in environmental matters are thanks to strict environmental standards. — — — — I drew attention to the fact that the Prime Minister did not mention the environment at all in his speech, even though our pure nature is our common pride and must be kept to it. On the other hand, clarification of the same issue several times between different authorities in companies and farms, duplication of control tasks between different bodies, detailed dimensioning requirements on premises, disproportionate hygiene requirements for local producers, different authorisations and declarations from volunteers are examples of standards for dismantling. It is advisable to remember the teachings of the social war and to ensure that, in the early stages, we do not run into constitutional walls. For example, the possibility for citizens to influence their own environment is guaranteed by the Constitution. Nor must the dismantling of standards lead to a situation in which the shadow economy is growing with fewer regulations. We must also beware of an American-style system in which ex ante regulation has been replaced by a legal settlement of the permitted and prohibited limit. It is bureaucratic, rigid and costly to seek solutions in court. Mr President! The Greens believe that the municipalities should be given more freedom to organise services. Operating environments vary across the country and even within municipalities, and the same objectives can be achieved in different ways. It is therefore reasonable that standards should not be too strict on how to implement them. However, care must be taken to ensure that people receive the services they need, regardless of their municipality of residence. The Greens are concerned by the Government Programme's entry that many welfare services that are important to citizens from the library to sports and from the Adult Education Centre to the youth office would no longer be statutory, but would be considered by the municipalities themselves. We are also concerned about the fact that there is a clear savings target attached to this item. If the services no longer need to be provided within the time limit or at all, or the groups of day-care centres and schools grow without restriction, it is not a matter of deregulation, but of cuts in services. Mr President! The authorisation procedure can be speeded up and streamlined with sufficient resources and cooperation between the authorities. A good example of this is the pre-negotiation process of the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, which was launched during the Ministry of the Environment by Ville Niinistö, which quickly brought environmental permits without compromising environmental values. Regulatory control should be directed to where the likelihood of infringement is highest. For example, at the tax office, risk analysis and the direction of supervision have produced good results. Mr President! The norm has its place as a guardian of human and environmental well-being and as a guarantor of the quality of services and products. However, the norm must not become a barrier to good life. We have to do this, but we have to do it with caution. The regulatory jungle should not move to the wild west.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u8	Madam President! The purpose of the standards is to create rules for society. They protect the vulnerable, divide power and limit the right of their own hand. They create standards and allocate resources. The norms are the core of a modern state. If there were no laws governing the exercise of power, there would be another, more arbitrary system in place of law. The legitimacy of normal bureaucracy is the equality of people before the state. So laws are not bad, on the contrary. They are usually born to correct some flaw. For example, many of the details of the municipal obligations — the rules on time limits for access to a doctor or for carrying out child welfare needs studies — have been derived from the municipalities’ penchant for the proper performance of these tasks. Some standards, such as data protection provisions and rights of appeal, rely on the rights of freedom that underpin modern society as a whole. History should have taught us already that there is much more reason to limit these than spending money or practical difficulties. Madam Speaker! Society is changing all the time, so standards have an awkward way of getting old. It is then that the regulation intended to make things smoother turns against itself. This phenomenon is currently jamming small-scale production of renewable energies, for example. On the other hand, since most standards arise as compromises between different interest groups, they may initially be inappropriate. So zoning, among other things, is full of regulation, which is not exactly in line with anyone's wishes. The weakness of the standards is that the authorities implementing them are ordinary, inconsistent people. A significant part of the problems raised in the debate on standards is therefore more related to the poor organisation of public administration work than to the actual legislation. For example, when the law on income support only requires the applicant to provide "essential information", it has often been interpreted by social services to require dozens of pages of attachments. It is certainly appropriate to look at such bottlenecks and delays from time to time. If you never clean a corner, you get all kinds of useless crap in it. However, the standard cleaning should be the daily welcome of the government, not the real political issue, at least not the one for which the new Prime Minister makes his first announcement. The choice is particularly strange in a situation where Finland faces a number of serious societal challenges. Madam Speaker! Finnish administration is still internationally efficient and, for example, the time taken to impose tax obligations on entrepreneurs is quite competitive. The really acute red tape is linked to the under-use of subsidies and the long queues of the judiciary, neither of which the government has otherwise promised to intervene. In fact, reading the Government Programme inevitably raises doubts, if the intention is actually to reduce norm bureaucracy at all. In fact, the objective is to increase the cost-effectiveness and means-tested, which means that there will also be more red tape. The proposal to tie children's day care rights to parental labour market status even requires the establishment of a completely new control mechanism. Already, Finland’s largest maintainer of normis stress is a bourgeois policy of distrust. However, these bailiffs seem to provide the authorities with so much new paperwork that there is cause for celebrations by the forest industry alone. If we really want to reduce red tape, we should turn our eyes to the real swallows of forms: the under-resources of the supervisory authorities and the judiciary, and, of course, the stakeout of services and transfers. Madam President! The annual review of the bans on double-shots and recreational craft fire extinguishers in these standards announced by the Prime Minister has led to significant ideological projects, such as the weakening of basic security and staffing in the care sector. What we're really doing right now is not doing some neutral fixed-term machine maintenance, but a radical political project.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u9	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det så kallade normtalko, som statsminister Sipilä effectlyser, behövs. Vi bör ha förmåga att se kritiskt på de direktiv och regler som reglerar vårt samhalle och som inverkar på vanliga medborgares vardag. Redan under förra regeringsperioden tog sig en parliamentarisk arbetsgrupp an uppdraget, så det finns att bygga på. Det ska ändå sägas tydligt: ett normtalko är ingen patentmedicin för ett bättre samhalle. Det är en villfarelse att tro att ett land utan normer är ett lyckligt land. Vår nordiska rättsstat grundar sig på goda principer som vi skriver om till lagar och normer. Goda normer skyddar de svaga grupperna i samhället. Vi behöver aven normer som tar hessyn till milön och som ger ramar för vår econom.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u10	Madam President, värderade fru talman! Statsministerns redogörelse gällande minskningen av onödig byråkrati och onödiga normer innehåller många goda förslag som är värda att understöda. Factum är ju att det är just i denna sal som beslut som har förorskat denna byråkrati har fattats, och som nu konstaterats vara ett av de största hintren för Finlands kkonkurrenskraft. Det finns ett gammalt talesätt: spåren leder till syltfabriken, och vi sitter just nu i syltfabriken. I den ox frågan är det just riksdage som bär ansvaret. Det är vi som ska bara ansvaret för att reda upp situationen så att Finland återfår sin kkonkurrenskraft, och så att medborgarna återfår förtroendet för våra mendigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u11	Madam President! Thank you for a good-spirited debate. There seems to be a very large consensus here that the objective is the right one. More common sense is needed in Finland, more confidence is needed, and it is now particularly important to facilitate the standards that limit people's employment and economic growth and investment. Many speakers raised these obstacles to important voluntary activities. There people work in their own spare time, and many activities have choked on excessive standards and bureaucracy. Many speakers also raised the need for regulation and rules of play. Not all regulation is bad. For example, the issue of health and safety at work was raised, the environment must be protected, transport needs rules — of course, that is clear. But when we talk about deregulation or deregulation and better regulation, we must be careful that it does not go into this EU context, that is, when we talk about better regulation in the EU, it usually means that we cannot dismantle existing regulation. We need both, that is to say better regulation and deregulation. Then we raised the quality of lawmaking and impact assessments. It is certainly a key element when it comes to better regulation. Well, then standards and rules may not work in the same way in Finland as a whole, and that is why we should also take account of regional differences in all the regulations and give more authority to the regions there, release decision-making there and rely on people's ability to function, creativity and try to do less of the nation-wide galloons here. Representative Mikkonen raised the issue of more responsibility for municipalities. The municipalities currently have 550 statutory tasks and about 1000 different obligations, and yes, these must also be reviewed critically. In 2000, for example, there were 400 of these statutory tasks and this has increased very strongly. And, as Mr Vanhanen said at the outset, none of us are innocent of this process and this is not a place of mutual blame, but we are now thinking, as Mr Östman said, that here at the spit factory, if there are any, standards when they are made, then here at the same place they must also be dismantled. The investment in Äänekoski was also highlighted by someone as a good example of how the authorisation process can also be built up quickly, but nevertheless it is done carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u12	Secretary Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u13	Madam President! Better regulation improves productivity, improves competitiveness and facilitates daily life. At the Ministry of Transport and Communications, all levels of administration are covered with dense combs. Impact in the European Union and international organisations will be reinforced to avoid unnecessary regulation. In the communications sector, licensing practices that are rigidising the market are critically examined. The regulation of the transport sector will also be reformed. In transport, the use of digitality is only just beginning, but the potential is enormous. There is a demand for customer-oriented services in both cities and sparsely populated areas. By clearing up the services and competition in, for example, passenger and freight transport, we are creating a good breeding ground for innovation and better services for people. With regard to transport policy, we are embarking on extensive regulatory reforms. Uniform and clear provisions on transport services, information, registers and transport agencies will be introduced into the new transport cycle. In the near future, we will abolish 12 unnecessary aviation regulations. For example, the use, shape and even colour of the parking puck has also been subject to painfully strict rules, which has resulted in charges for parking errors contrary to the general sense of law. Not all regulation is unnecessary. A sensible and pro-competitive section is in order, and human safety and confidence in everyday life must be guaranteed. I have a responsibility to the government's top project, "Supplementing the regulations". I hope that my colleagues, citizens, businesses and communities will give me well-founded initiatives to identify bad regulations. Develop together a society closer to people, closer to businesses, creating an enabling and safe environment for citizens and business. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u14	Let's start the debut. I'd like to request representatives to report. And at the outset, the group speakers will be allowed to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u15	Mr President! Actually, I can handle it in a much shorter time. In view of this huge task of the entire government term, it is clear that this dismantling of standards and better regulation, the culture of experimentation in this house and in this Chamber will clearly achieve very broad support, and on this basis it is very good for the government to go to bold openings, to look for examples across the country and to produce presentations. I believe that they will receive a very good reception here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u16	Madam President! When I listened to these statements by the opposition, the intervention of the Christian Democrats must, in fact, be applauded that it had been drafted with thought. But in the speech of the Left Alliance, Mr Kontula, you actually ran the idea so far that it has nothing to do with deregulation from the point of view of the prosecution of this government. I hope, however, that this House will find the real desire to deregulate so that all the groups will commit themselves to it. On the other hand, if you think about history then, I have only four years of history as a Member of Parliament, and during the last parliamentary term I sat in the Committee on Economic Affairs. With that in mind, I have to say that this Socialist proposal for a parliamentary working party that would deregulate the regulation was the very first thought of a Trojan horse. When, for example, EU regulation was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs during the last parliamentary term, I wonder whether, almost without exception, the social democrats in national legislation would have wanted to extend the regulation to small companies, for example, even though the directive itself concerned listed companies. There were issues of this kind which were, however, impossible to carry out in small companies or significantly increase costs or affect whether they were set up at all. I welcome the fact, Prime Minister, that you have set up this ministerial working group yesterday, but I would have asked this ministerial working group whether there are any real objectives for this. Now, if we think that we have environmental legislation in such a way that there are 18,000 different authorisation procedures for projects that have an impact on the environment, is it a numerical objective, for example, to aim for a Swedish level of 5000?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u17	Mr President! I would like to return to this liberalisation of opening hours, which is a good and concrete entry in the Government Programme. That is the answer to the many irrational situations that have arisen over the years. As I said earlier, during the best tourist seasons, for example, some of the shops cannot be kept open, or if, on the Fourth of July, for example, you want a hairstyle legally, hairdressers have had to apply for this 200-euro derogation. I hope that these practical situations will soon be overcome, and I would like to ask: how quickly is this absolutely sensible change to be made and in what order, and how is this liberalisation of opening hours now to be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u18	Madam President! The objective of better regulation, as I said earlier, is right and we support it. I was a little annoyed by the reaction of the speaker of the Group of the Finns Party to this offer of ours, and I would now like to hear from the Prime Minister how you feel about it: will you continue to prepare for better regulation, precisely as parliamentary cooperation? If you do, then we Social Democrats are prepared to extend the hand of cooperation. I'd love to hear the government's statement on that. And then, when Members of this House were also urged and encouraged to participate in this work and to identify the points where legislation or political decisions make it difficult for citizens to live, at least one of them will be found in that government programme. The aim of all of us is to get more work and facilitate employment. Now, this income restriction on rental dwellings, which requires the creation of a large control mechanism for rental housing companies where people's incomes are made, could be said to be watching — that if you take a shift manager's seat, for example, the threat is that you will fly out of your own rental dwelling — may create a pretty big obstacle to employment and a negative incentive to take on new or better paid jobs. On the other hand, a rental housing company estimates that the creation of this bureaucratic machinery, which controls this, is quite expensive, so expensive that it could increase rents by as much as one and a half percent. I would therefore like to ask the government a question: would you be prepared, in the spirit of better regulation, to review this policy again?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u19	Mr President! There has been a lot of common ground in this debate between opposition parties and the government, and that is a good thing, and on that basis it would be worth building further work in the government, too, that the broadest possible support for society should be for how we start to develop regulation, to make better regulation and also to dismantle unnecessary regulation. But then we have to go a little deeper in the analysis and not just settle for rhetorical tricks about getting rid of the red tape that is now suffocating, and people are only getting out of it, but to analyse that what is a good standard, which is good regulation, when it even creates a market and a good opportunity to create business. This is an example of the fact that, in the 1990s, the German Minister for the Environment, Klaus Töpfer, the Christian Democrat, explained extensively, at the request of industry, whether environmental regulation should move towards fewer standards and more legal sanctions, as in the United States. The outcome of this debate was that no one wanted it, because it would have cost more, it would have been more risky for the environment and industry would not have known what was going on with them. And then, for example, in the environmental sector, all the standards have been carefully reviewed, and there are really no unnecessary standards there, so that then there is talk of letting poisons into the water, and I do not believe that this is what the government wants. But what can be done is more efficient management, more effective dialogue in cooperation with the promotion of projects. There is such an exciting feature in Sweden that Sweden will have fewer complaints because legal decisions are originally taken. In other words, companies and municipalities know the law better, comply voluntarily with environmental responsibility better, and no complaints are made either. The President of our Supreme Administrative Court, Pekka Hallberg, has said that the majority of environmental complaints actually go through in court. It is also a matter of legal certainty for citizens that the law is respected in different decisions. Mr President! In fact, my point to the government is that good standards can, for example, promote cleantech — even if the obligation to distribute biofuels — and if you can go a little deeper on what standards you intend to promote, when the field of play can be fair
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u20	Madam President! Untying standards absolutely requires confidence, and now the problem with this exercise is that the government does seem to have confidence in civil servants and business, but not in ordinary citizens. This is reflected, among other things, in the fact that all the concrete proposals for dismantling the standards were related to the two mentioned above. On the other hand, there is a need for consideration and consideration, i.e. more regulation, more bureaucracy, more control, more forms. If Minister Berner is really interested in the standardization that affects the lives of an ordinary low-income person, we could take a few hours together and go over a few examples of the Kafka reality that ordinary people have to go through because of a few small scraps or just basic services, because they have not been mentioned so far in any government proposal, they will not come up in any way in this debate. And those that affect the lives of ordinary people and the legitimacy of this entire system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u21	Mr President! In this regard, Prime Minister Sipilä said that we must boldly reform and we must dare to abandon the old policies. We can agree with this in the Swedish parliamentary group, and one specific point concerns foreign workers. The Swedish Parliamentary Group believes that the need for a labour force outside the EU and the EEA region should be abandoned. This was at least the opinion of both the Centre and the Coalition Party before the parliamentary elections, but now this has apparently been forgotten when the Government Programme has been written. Prime Minister, in Närpiö, for example, foreign workers are crucial to greenhouse entrepreneurs, without them there would be no greenhouses. However, local entrepreneurs have said that our current need-tested approach makes recruitment more difficult and creates unnecessary bureaucracy. This same message also comes from this capital region, including technology companies that would like to recruit foreign experts. Now that we are talking about standards, why does the government not now want this unnecessary bureaucracy to be dismantled? Why not get rid of the needs of foreign workers properly? Instead, you are proposing tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA. Do you think that Finland does not need foreign experts? We want jobs to be created in this country so that we can grow and also safeguard our well-being in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u22	Madam Speaker! When it comes to ordinary citizens, I would first like to say to the representative of the Left Alliance that, according to the Christian Democratic ideology, every human being has the same dignity, whether worker or entrepreneur, so that here, when we classify people in different classes, it is good to bear this in mind. The new law on information in the construction sector has led — and I will take one specific example — to the need for the furniture supplier to determine the cost of work on the construction site if, for example, the company in question supplies a couple of cabinets. When the black economy is to be combated, practical work falls under the responsibility of legitimate entrepreneurs. It has been estimated last year that this programme to combat the shadow economy would have brought EUR 20 million to the Treasury, and this has been welcomed. But has anyone wondered, during the last term of the government, how much has it cost the business sector, for example? If we have some 50,000 companies in the construction sector in Finland and every company has had to acquire equipment, invest in equipment to manage this bureaucratic work, it has cost these construction companies 0.5 billion plus on top of it the extra working time that goes into it. It is worth making impact assessments before we begin to rejoice in the decisions that have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u23	Let us move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u24	Madam President! Let us hope that this great consensus around the dismantling of standards is really indicative of less regulation and better regulation. It is good to consider why such a process has taken place. We have allowed the situation to drift to the point that many of the provisions intended to facilitate our daily lives have turned against ourselves. From the point of view of the citizen, of its ordinary citizen and of the person and also of the customer, the bureaucracy of housing, land use and land planning, for example, must be dismantled. In addition, we must also be able to reduce the administrative burden from the perspective of the implementing party, i.e. its worker, and that is why it is also important to reduce the tasks and obligations of municipalities, and that is why municipal workers must be involved in this process so that they can also commit themselves to these new policies. I'd like to ask Minister Vehviläinen:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u25	Mr President! One important policy of the Government Programme is to cut red tape hard. This measure is welcome for businesses, and also for those who want a new job, it will contribute to it. But if a citizen wants to work even for short periods of time, the paper war and the complex filling in of subsidies must not be an obstacle and a deterrent. The importance of voluntary activities will be emphasised in the future, and organisational and social work and the activities of various associations must not be made even more difficult, but rather made easier. But what is easily left — of course the interests of the citizens are important — is animal protection, and I would ask the government: when there is not much talk of animal protection in the government programme, how now, when controls and bureaucracy are reduced, is animal protection at this point? There's a lot of violations, and the sanctions are really minimal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u26	Madam President! You, Mr Prime Minister, and your government have taken up a very important issue, and it is a very welcome theme for you to go and find out. It is quite clear that there are obsolete, unnecessary bureaucratic regulations that can be improved and removed, those that are no longer needed, but it must always be borne in mind that no regulation in general has been made in vain. They are made to protect man or the environment or nature. Now that you are taking this action, I would urge you to take into account a paragraph in every point where you dismantle these rules, to assess its impact on the issue that has been sought to protect, while eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u28	Mr President! After what Mr Salolainen has said, the President puts a rather high point in this Chamber, because today we have had an amazing history of the past, so one-sided basic point, that we are prepared to go through the existing regulations and consider which ones are unnecessary and unnecessary, and that is where the government receives strong support, I really feel, for all the group speeches. That's a hand the government should take. Then the problem arises in what Mr Salolainen said, that when many regulations have the important basis for protecting the weaker one who, without regulation, will be overridden — whether by nature or by the consumer or by the worker under conditions that he will not be able to obtain health and safety protection in a restaurant where there is no ventilation and where he is working — the wise person in the government might think that if there is a reason for that protection and the removal of its protection will cause greater harm,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u29	Mr President! Seat belts and speed limits are an example of regulation that has once been resisted as an unnecessary insubordination and restriction of freedom, but they have led, among other things, to the death of about a thousand fewer people on Finnish roads last year than in the first half of the 1970s. Yet, relative to the population, we still have more road deaths than the EU average. So not all regulation is in vain, but of course there is regulation that should be made easier. I myself would like to raise the issue of regulations which make food production more difficult or even more difficult to produce in the near future. For example, I recently heard from the owner of the Kotkala restaurant that he cannot buy fish directly from fishermen, because for that he should have an entire room of 0 degrees for handling the fish. So he's going to have to buy fish in bulk. This is an example of regulation that will certainly not improve food quality and food safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u30	Madam Speaker! Now that the government is zealously going out to dismantle these standards, I hope that you will also remember why the standards have been laid down. For example, the fight against the shadow economy, which was the top priority in the last term of government, is not the top priority of this government, but nevertheless I hope that you would like to treat all people, both entrepreneurs and employees, fairly and honestly. We have all read stories about how the grey economy, the economy that operates outside all standards, treats employees, what kind of wages, what kind of working conditions work. In the real world, employers and employees are not equal partners in contracts, but they do need that protection. For example, job orientation for a new worker, compliance with health and safety standards are the essentials that I hope you will not go downhill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u31	Värderade Talman! Regeringens plane att fortsätta att röja upp i normdjungeln är i grunden en god sak. Var och en av oss, varenda kotte har i oika sammanhang stött på lagar, normer, tilståndsförfaranden, begränsningar, direka förbud som är onödiga eller åtminstone inkonsekventa. Mr Varför för exempelvis gårdsvin säljas direkt från gården medan småbryggaren i skärgården inte på samma villkor får sälja ut sitt ld från bryggeriet?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u32	Mr President! The standards now set by the government are welcome. There is certainly no one in this Chamber who has not promised to abolish these standards in the electoral fields. And hopefully, when these presentations come to the Chamber in due course, this unanimous will will remain. However, a small, dark cloud over these projects is linked to this reduction in the tasks and obligations of municipalities. I think that Mr Heinäluoma has just very nicely intervened in this, that it is possible that, once these obligations, which have been carefully considered and imposed and which have been laid down, are now being dismantled, they will become an additional element of savings for municipalities in future budgetary negotiations. I would like the government to pay particular attention to this, that these regulations do not apply to the vital basic needs, the basic services used by low-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u33	Mr President! We genuinely hope that the government will have a windfall in these efforts to dismantle standards, especially, of course, where the affairs of ordinary people are handled better and more flexibly, where different guardianships are exempted. It's the right thing to do, and it's good. But I'd like to ask you where your train stops. Now that the Finnish Government and Finland, for example, are demanding the dismantling of certain protected professions in Greece, are we now prepared here in Finland to dismantle, for example, the regulation of taxi traffic? Are you ready to deregulate the pharmacy business? How far are you willing to go? Then I would like to ask you that when you introduce this regional government into the social welfare system, obviously, how do you see that this new third level of government actually fits in with this government's objective of deregulation and unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u34	Mr President! Few things have received such strong support across party lines as this dismantling of standards or a better regulation policy here as presented by the Prime Minister. The shocking thing was to listen to Mr Lindtman's speech, that is to say to the sympathetic speech that has been accompanied by Mr Heinäluoma and Mrs Tuppurainen. This makes the sensitive mind even more sensitive. This involves this regulation, better regulation, including where decisions are taken on people and businesses: at the end of the pipeline there or there in the regions, close to people, close to businesses? What's the main line? In its programme, the government seems to be starting to see decisions being taken more and more in the regions, the locals, businesses and people. This involves, among other things, the reform of regional administration. I would therefore like to ask how the government intends to contribute to this rather major reform in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u35	Madam President! Finland is an expensive country whose competitiveness has been weakened for many reasons, and these standards, regulation and bureaucracy do not at least improve competitiveness. Many times they hinder investment and thus hinder work. Prime Minister, you said that the dismantling of standards must be conducted with determination. However, I personally see that this is not always a legal problem, which is why these standards lead to these problems, but rather an interpretation which the officials are doing in those provinces. And since this implementation in general is the most important part of the decisions, how are we now going to implement this crackdown on standards, and who in the provinces will lead to the dismantling of standards, that we will then achieve a good result there at the practical level, that is, at the lower level?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u36	I give the floor to Mr Gustafsson, Mr Juvonen, Mr Karimäki and Mr Uotila. Let us then take a few ministerial speeches, Mr Tiilikainen and Mr Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u37	Mr President! I'm going to continue this Lindtman-Heinäluoma line. The government is on an important agenda. It has already been overlooked that the reduction in the tasks and standards of these municipalities has now been somewhat obscured. I believe that this is particularly a matter in which I would like the government to listen to the opposition and to be able to influence us. Frankly, I am very concerned about what has been referred to as the library law, basic art teaching, theatre and orchestra law. For example, the library is one of three stone feet for me — a comprehensive school, a public service, a Finnish library system. It is the cornerstone of our national culture, and I would like to see to it that the library is now kept alive and equal in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u38	Madam President! "If I'd known how hard it was to become an entrepreneur, I wouldn't have." "If I had known how difficult it would have been to build a house. " So the Norms have their place. Complaints about planning and building permits take time but also money. Building costs are raised, for example, by the need for a building permit for small projects and the diversity of document requirements in different municipalities. The building and design regulations may also be applied differently in different municipalities and the authorities may have different interpretations. And what about trying, what can we do about entrepreneurship with one-stop-shop tactics? We know how to legislate, but do we know how to dismantle them and do it also in a humane and ethical way? There are standards that are slow, but there are also standards that are designed to protect the weaker, to provide security and to protect. The assessment of the impact of legislation, as well as the consultation of citizens, is therefore of paramount importance if we are to be able to do the right thing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u39	Madam President! It is, of course, worthwhile working out regulations and standards and eliminating duplication in order to facilitate people's everyday lives and improve the capacity of small entrepreneurs to operate. But I agree with many of the speeches that many regulations and many standards have been made to protect residents, small people and they also provide basic services. One good example is the fact that the regulation of large units of commerce maintains local shops in villages, and the regulation of group sizes of day care is also relevant. I'd put ice in the hat, too, in the dismantling of accessibility regulations. We have an ageing population and people with disabilities who should rather be supported and encouraged to live at home. It has been studied that, if accessibility is taken into account at an early stage and in planning, it will not even be so expensive. And good accessibility also improves the quality of housing overall. I would like to ask the government for more information on your plans for dismantling accessibility standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u40	Madam Speaker! There should be a well-managed structural change, which once gained as broad a consensus in the Chamber as these standards are now. But when I listened to the Prime Minister's speech, I was a little concerned at the official announcement when the Prime Minister said that regulation was still needed to maintain and ensure the security of the organised welfare society and people, that is, is there really nothing else? Fortunately, however, the Prime Minister corrected this in his reply and mentioned, among other things, the important issue of health and safety at work. In other words, there is still a considerable need for these standards and regulation. As Mr Heinäluoma has already referred here to Mr Vanhanen’s reference — that customers can decide with their feet whether there is too much heat or too much exhaust in the café — that the person who works at the café must also get along at the café. And one example is Winterfell, hundreds of millions of people still have to put in Winterfell: I don't think the Winterfell problem was too strict, but the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u41	Before the ministers, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u42	Mr President! I, too, want to upset the representative. By sensitising him now with a positive speech. The government has taken up an important issue, which was and is in the SDP's objectives for this parliamentary term. These demolishing efforts, the dismantling of bureaucracy, must be done with good consideration, and their impact assessments must be made in advance in the right way. However, I will take up one issue in which we in the SDP are somewhat concerned and critical about these deregulations. In other words, the government envisages such a framework law, which addresses, for example, library services, youth services and sports services in such a way that the decision-making power is transferred to the municipal level without any binding standards. We are afraid, we are concerned that this means that in some municipalities, one or more municipalities, there will be a situation where library services are not available to all citizens or youth services are not provided in such a way that they are accessible to all, or that private services in sports services will completely replace public services. This is under pressure in the municipalities, of course, because of the current economic situation in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u43	Secretary Vehviläinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u44	Mr President! First of all, with regard to these tasks and the reduction of the obligations of the municipalities, as Mr Katainen asked, I would like to say that the work in it has been started and it is intended that in the September budget debate we will be able to make this kind of action programme on how to take it forward. But I would also like to point out here that there are almost 160 municipal decision-makers in this Chamber, that the government gives the opportunity and the freedom to carry out duties and duties in the municipalities, but the decision-makers are the group that makes the decisions. I think it is good that we see municipal decision-makers as our partners and not that we are simply directing from here, but that this is a genuine interaction. I very much welcome those municipalities and municipal decision-makers who have already left themselves to make these things free of action and to seek new ways of working. I'll take, for example, the town of Liper. An hourly day care fee system was introduced there from 2012 to 2013. Now they get nearly EUR 500000 in savings on an annual basis, and that is a great deal. In other words, I also encourage the municipalities themselves to make such reforms. Well, then Mr Kääriäinen asked about this reform of regional government. As the Prime Minister pointed out earlier, during this summer we are going to refine these strategic key projects and also these reforms, such as regional government reform, and I am sure that from the beginning of autumn we will be able to tell you in a certain way the steps and the work plan on how we are going to move forward in them. Finally, I would like to mention these experiments, which are also one of the ways in which this policy is being reformed. You know that it has been quite difficult to organise experiments in Finland, that a separate pilot law has been needed. Now the government has included in the Government Programme that we are looking for regulations that will make it easier to organise experiments, and I hope that Parliament will also want to be involved in this work and take a positive view of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u45	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u46	Mr President! Of course, the government safeguards the level of human health and environmental protection. The reduction of standards, the reduction of red tape, is about how little effort can be made to achieve this good level of health and environmental protection. That is what this is all about, and there is a broad consensus about it. For example, the transfer of decision-making powers to local levels — from the Ministry of the Environment to the strengthening of regional plans, from ely to zoning powers to municipalities — also strengthens democracy. And when local decision-makers make good decisions through a democratic process, it also reduces the need for complaints. In other words, the closer people make decisions, the better the people are able to influence them and the less desperate complaints are needed. This is also a good thing to note in this debate. A few examples. Take, for example, a permit for landscape work: if a person wants to cut down a tree from his own property, it must not require more drastic action than the notification procedure. Or if you want solar panels on your roof. Or if you want to replace oil heating with ground heat, you'll have to get that hole into it. In other words, things like this make it easier for people to act for society and the environment, and by no means to put them at risk. Or authorisation of livestock shelters: If the permit for the environment and the permit for construction are combined, the farmer will be more easily able to survive. And once that permission has been obtained for a particular subject, if there is no material change in production, then there is no need to apply for the same thing time after time. There's a lot of relaxation here, the use of reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u47	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u48	Madam President! Representative Lindtman raised the issue of the EUR 300 protection component introduced last season as an example of the dismantling of red tape such as unemployment security. That is a good thing, and I have praised it before and continue to praise it. It is precisely in that direction that we need to develop. I have a responsibility to dismantle the incentive traps that prevent this work from taking place, and I am happy to accept the proposals. A large part of the bureaucracy of these companies is usually made up at a time when it is changing its activities because of a new obligation. It would therefore be a priority to at least try to avoid these companies having new obligations. Switching the authorisation procedure into a notification procedure: well, it may not directly reduce the administrative burden on its company, but it will allow it to start its operations immediately. At the same time, however, care must be taken to ensure, among other things, that companies are only asked for essential information, that consideration is given to the form in which any annexes should be submitted and that information already available to other authorities in the company is used. This will reduce the red tape. Then attention was paid here to this legislative drafting and the deregulation of this regulation. Of course, it is crucial that an adequate knowledge base is put in place to determine how these objectives are to be achieved and what impact these chosen means will have. This concerns new legislation, amending the old and deregulation. If this burden is to be lifted, then it is appropriate to define where and whose burden is to be reduced, i.e. what is meant by the dismantling of standards, and this dismantling should be done in a controlled manner so that the principles of good lawmaking are realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u49	Mr President! There is no point in red tape, but perhaps this House is concerned about the fact that there are also plans to dismantle and weaken standards in relation to welfare services that are important to us all, which threaten the well-being and legal protection of our citizens, especially in the case of the most vulnerable citizens. Minister Vehviläinen pointed out that there would be a legislative change now to facilitate experiments. I would like to ask whether it is intended to create such a general law that could go beyond specific legislation. I believe that there may be some constitutional issues here, because the place of residence cannot determine the services the citizen receives, because they are guaranteed by specific legislation. I am pleased that Minister Lindström took this impact assessment, and I ask: is it also intended to carry out impact assessments from the perspective of equality and impact assessments from the perspective of children's rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u50	Mr President! It is very important that this exercise is done precisely from the point of view of the citizen: what impact will legislation, hopefully better legislation, have on the everyday lives of citizens? Now that I asked the government about these revisions of the income limits and the associated creation of a bureaucratic machinery to give it up, I did not receive an answer, but when the Minister of Labour said that he was responsible for this incentive to accept the work, this project, I am now asking you, Minister of Labour, what do you think of this? So the fact that you're an average-paid couple and the other takes on a shift manager's job is a risk of moving out of a home that you've lived in for decades. Do you think that this should now be abandoned in a spirit of better regulation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u51	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the standards set in motion by the Assembly have received such broad support across party boundaries. In my opinion, we could begin by, for example, abolishing the regulation of trading opening hours. It's ridiculous. It's the law when you read it. Article 4, for example, refers to paragraph 16 which is not covered by this law and regulation. We regulate the trade according to what is the day of the week, which is the day of celebration, which is the choice, which is the square quantity, which is the value of the goods, which is the kiosk, what is allowed to be sold, the flowers are allowed to be sold, something else is not allowed to be sold. And to top it all off, the law says that the police are watching, just as if the police had nothing better to do. Prime Minister Sipilä, let us start here with the repeal of the Business Time Act, and I ask you: will the government repeal this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u52	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for the announcement and also to the other parliamentary groups for the good speeches. This project for dismantling standards has probably been going on under the surface for a long time, and that is a good thing. This was certainly also discussed during the last parliamentary term. Thank you to the government in particular for the fact that voluntary activities have also been brought to this development of regulation, shall we say so? The Prime Minister also mentioned volunteering twice in his speech, but obviously this is a question of the need for the voluntary law, even though much is being said about this deregulation. Hopefully, then, at its best, it could lead to the net effects that are also being applied for here. And years have been known, for example, for the fact that the unemployed are unable to participate in voluntary activities, which would of course be the best solution for their own lives or for future employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u53	Madam President! If some farmers and rural entrepreneurs are in the teeth of bureaucracy in the most shocking way. There will be retroactive legislation in the supporting jungle, we do not know what we will have to commit to, and we are very firm with this, both mentally and financially. A couple of weeks ago, I visited a turbulent view of the water that came from there. It was perfectly clear, completely clean. Nevertheless, different schemes of around EUR 20000 were required for this Member State. Not that the end product was not good, but when the interpretation is that filter fields and so on are now to be made. These if some people are unreasonable. I would now like to ask the Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, whether the end product should not be determined whether we should not develop legislation in the direction that the end product will decide, not the process.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u54	Madam President! I ask the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen: if the Ministry of the Environment is deprived of the power to approve the regional plan and the common municipal plans, who will ensure that the social structure is developed from the point of view of the common interest, not from the point of view of an individual interest group? Municipalities and businesses can take care of themselves, but who takes care of the common environment?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u55	Madam President! There are no obsolete standards or standards that are not needed here. You, Prime Minister, are laying down standards in order to achieve more savings in public finances. For example, as Minister Vehviläinen said in his speech, the obligations of municipalities are being reduced. As a result, municipal decision-makers take decisions, and while central government shares are still being cut, there is a risk that libraries, for example, will be closed down as part of municipal austerity measures. You transfer enormous responsibility to municipal decision-makers and afterwards you can only say that the government's will was not to cut down on the library network, and you transfer the blame to municipal decision-makers. Prime Minister, is this the agility you are calling for in order to increase Finland's competitiveness?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u56	Mr President! Generally speaking, these standards are a good thing: unnecessary — note: unnecessary — regulations on waste bins. And I also hope that Prime Minister Sipilä will take up this cooperative hand of the Social Democrats. It's a good thing the government keeps up last season's standards, for example in construction. I hope that you will continue to work hard, even if, for example, these unnecessary energy certificates are made available in old small houses to volunteer what we have been working on. President! It is precisely the concern that certain regulation also protects services and protects the weaker. I, too, would like to take this library issue seriously here. It has just been decided to reform the library law in order to secure the public's library services, local libraries. Children, the elderly, all of us are friends with libraries, and I am really afraid that when the law is enacted that there is no need to follow the law, it will happen that libraries will be spared to death. We're going to make a disastrous choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u57	Mr Grahn-Laasonen, would you like to speak here for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u58	Madam President! This debate has been very encouraging in relation to these standards and deregulation, which in person is a very close theme: in August 2013, we took this initiative with Lasse Männistö, and a lot has happened since then. I myself think that deregulation is also a matter of freedom and trust in man and not having to decide for people, but also of making decisions about their daily lives and their environment. Overregulation and regulation of unnecessary things discourages, passively and also prevents new births, the renewal of Finnish society. It is clear that we need regulation, and that is quite clear on many of the issues mentioned above, as has been mentioned, for example the environment or the protection of people, the protection of workers and so on. But then again for opportunities from my own sector, the Ministry of Education and Culture, we have in the Government's programme, for example, the removal of obstacles to education exports, which specifically aims at exporting Finnish education to the world and increasing internationalism through it. Similarly, the reform of secondary vocational education and training will ease regulation and dismantle duplication, and this has been very well received and welcomed there in the field. Similarly, when voluntary activities have been mentioned here, I will take one example: for example, sports organisations have been hoping for years to be more flexible, for example in school sports facilities, in school afternoons. And at the moment practices in municipalities and perhaps such fears and regulation prevent it in many municipalities so that it has not been wanted to leave the opportunity to offer it. I would also like to say from those libraries that I myself consider them to be the absolute gems of our Finnish welfare society, and I want to do a lot of work in Finnish libraries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u59	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u60	Mr President! This is an important subject for the Prime Minister's announcement, and I also think that timing is good when the legislative work is about to begin at the beginning of the parliamentary term. But I have two questions. In your speech, Prime Minister, you promised to withdraw legislation that hinders voluntary activities, and I ask whether the government intends to amend the fundraising legislation by moving from the current preliminary, rather bureaucratic authorisation procedure to the notification procedure. Of course, this must be taken into account and it must be ensured that the collection of funds is not used for misleading or fraudulent activities, but it is also possible in that notification procedure. But then the second question relates to the opening hours of shops. The Coalition Party proposed the repeal of the Business Time Act, and it is true that the current legislation is confusing and certainly requires corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u61	Mr President! It has been very important for the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party to abolish inappropriate standards and better regulation. It was excellent that the Prime Minister announced this. In this respect, the whole Parliament can support this work and also make proposals. I hope that, when the government takes action, priority will be given to measures to promote the activities of SMEs. The new jobs will be created, the tax money that will allow us to secure the library and other welfare services. As a proposal, when the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, in the preparation of the overall reform of the alcohol law, which is still unrealised, has prepared articles which, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, do not — if they are dismantled — increase alcohol consumption but which would promote the restaurant industry, tourism, entrepreneurship — such as the fact that the restaurant could be a common drinking area, small breweries do not need food sales when they sell beer out, is it possible for the government to make this list,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u62	Madam President! A very good point was raised, and here I ask whether the government intends to deal with alcohol policy as a whole so that, without forgetting its public health significance, it can be seen that the legislation in this House is only adopted on the basis of a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It should be noted that it involves entrepreneurship, a very large primary production chain, Altia's activities, the whole trade, tourism, small breweries. They would certainly belong to the sector of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and then, as far as trade and other business are concerned, at least the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy would be that this whole alcohol policy should be dealt with more seriously than it really is, without forgetting the public health effects that are undoubtedly harmful to alcohol, which must not be ignored in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u63	Mr President! I stayed to listen and praise that speech by Myllykoski. Representative Myllykoski had an extremely important and timely topic in that speech and a very good speech. That this debate should not leave a false impression here, when there was much talk of protection and then of trust in a normal person, then I do think that deregulation is not about weakening protection, whether it be the protection of man or the protection of nature, but about regulation, not about dismantling protection, but about deregulation, the deregulation of unnecessary regulation and the deregulation of overlapping regulations. It is not necessarily necessary to reduce that level of protection in any way. Since this deregulation is, of course, one of the most important projects of this government,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u66	Mr President! I must say that the debate that has taken place here, particularly the social democrats' attitude to this important issue, has been a positive surprise and a gratifying thing, for which, as a representative of the Government Party, I should like to thank and hope that this tone will continue on both this and other issues when we are living in difficult times. In this debate, the Prime Minister's announcement has left two things to be overlooked, perhaps too little. We have rightly focused on standards and regulations, but the important line taken by the government is also that the government will set up a legislative review body which will ensure that Parliament has legislation that has been carefully prepared and the effects of which will also be identified. When the question of child and gender impact assessment and gender impact has been raised here, I personally see that the role of this impact assessment body is, among other things, to raise these issues. The second point relates to pilot legislation. I find it inspiring that there is also an opportunity to fail, to pilot, and I hope that the government will shed a little more light on what it could be in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u67	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament sought to promote wind power and the use of wind power. There is also a very strong basis for standards and regulations in this area. Currently, the Government decision and the Ministry of the Environment guide companies in their efforts to build wind turbines. These two guidelines are somewhat contradictory, and municipalities interpret them from their own point of view and, in many cases, the precautionary principle even overestimated. As a result, many investments have not been made. Can Minister Tiilikainen or possibly Minister Vehviläinen give us more light on this: is the regulation coming, as it was supposed to be in the last parliamentary term, a regulation that would have clarified the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u68	Mr President! To my ears, the impact assessment body of legislation sounds a little bureaucratic. Should we not always carry out impact assessments when drawing up all the legislation on the impact of this legislation? However, if this is to apply for such a cross-disciplinary issue, i.e. to see how the law on different actions affects society, then, for example, this Ara rent regulation or fixed-term leases would be very good to examine against this background, because it involves, for example, an increase in rent costs: 1.5% rent increases. Then it causes rigidity in the labour market, it causes segregation in residential areas, schools, day-care centres — in other words, in this way in a holistic way for the various sectors of society, it certainly makes sense to look at,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u69	Minister Vehviläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u70	Mr President! Of these law impact assessments: it has been a problem, Mr Myller, that they have not been good enough, and that is why the Ministry of Justice in the spring suggested that there should be ministries to support this kind of separate law impact assessment body, and we try to rush it in such a way that it would already be this autumn, because in the autumn here is coming a lot of legislation. Here, too, the opposition has little thought that not everyone would be quite good in terms of their effects, so that we are trying to hurry up here. But then, on these experiments, which Mr Haatainen and Mr Saarikko raised: of course, legislative changes to organise experiments or new laws must always be in agreement with the Constitution, that is quite clear, but I have also received encouraging information from legal scholars over the last couple of weeks that we are able to facilitate our legislation without it being in conflict with the Constitution. You are well aware of this municipal law: one option is that we in municipal law should also introduce a statute, a change in the section on what would make it easier to organise these municipal experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u71	Mr President! A few questions: Mr Lindtman and others have asked about this right of residence for affordable rental dwellings, whether income limits are being checked. Of course, affordable rental housing is intended for people with low incomes and thus allows for affordable housing. When you move into an apartment or change your dwelling, that income level is certainly in order to be estimated. Well, you have rightly pointed out that if such periodic checks are carried out, this could lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. Then, of course, if there are things in the government program that are, as it were, working against each other, the sensible government will use reason and then think about it in due course. You shouldn't have hanged yourself on government programs before if common sense tells you otherwise. But this will be assessed when it comes to time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u72	Madam President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Prime Minister's announcement has also raised the question of speeding up the process of authorisation and complaint. In some cases, even restrictions on the right of appeal have been flashed in the dismantling of standards. I wonder whether it is sufficiently understood that participation and appeal guarantee, among other things, the legality and quality control of planning. When the reform of the Land Use and Building Act gave up the strengthening of municipal regulations, the right to appeal was made a guarantee of the quality of planning. I do not think that this balance should be undermined in the future. In fact, only one out of every ten formulas is complained of in the municipalities. That is certainly not the main problem with zoning. On the other hand, the right of appeal is one of the environmental rights of citizens under the Constitution. The right of appeal also supports the right to participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u73	Mr President! The application of the law and, in many cases, the instructions for its application forget what the legislator intended when he passed the law, and a section or section begins to live its own life. This is also the issue of the biting of standards. It is now possible to use reason. It is very good to remember the ancient rule of Olaus Petr’s judge that what is not right and fair may not be a law either. It is a very good thing that we are now embarking on this dismantling of standards jointly. Let us not make unnecessary confrontations here, but let us work together to find the things that can be done in a flexible way. Then it is quite clear that we must rely on the Constitution. It states that the use of public authority must always be based on law and that all public authority use must be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u74	Mr President! Mr Töll's speech was a very constructive and good speech. I now hope that the Prime Minister will respond to the SDP's offer that it will be possible to move this parliamentaryly forward so that everyone can be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u75	Mr President! I must say that it was a great pleasure to listen to Minister Tiilikainen's speech, in which he trusted close democracy and local decision-making. Indeed, there have been many unusual speeches here, which have indeed been feared of all the terrible things that will happen if the municipalities are given the freedom to act. Personally, I would trust that the municipalities and people there know the local conditions and know how to make decisions. If we are thinking of this strengthening of patterns, they are the same standards and laws that will guide it in the future, even if it is removed from the Ministry of the Environment. After all, our zoning process is very inclusive and we have – indeed, as has been the case here – opportunities to complain, which I think have already gone some way too far. In this regard, too, it is worth checking whether we have sufficient legal certainty, even if we have a slight reduction in the rights of appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u76	Honored Speaker! Construction is expensive, and housing is also expensive in Finland. A number of measures have been included in the Government Programme to facilitate construction: renovation construction will no longer create new building obligations; each small, for example, student home will not have to be accessible in the future; a small additional house can be built in connection with a detached house in the Swedish model by means of a simple notification procedure; planning will be streamlined; complaints will be limited only to the parties concerned; appeal fees, court fees will be increased. I would like to ask the Minister responsible, Mr Tiilikainen: what is the timetable for these measures, which in fact still exist in the Government Programme, to be brought to the attention of Parliament and to the everyday life so that one good further step can be taken towards building?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u77	Mr President! It is very important to see what the laws that we regulate contain. Let me give you one example of this: this law was enacted last season. In other words, we passed a law which earmarked funds for the treatment of unemployment to those who had been on labour market support for at least 300 days. Sounds great and good, but there's a very unequal law. If you take two people who were in the same job, one was not part of the trade union, you were given labour market support, and in 300 days you may have been allocated this money, but a person who belonged to a trade union and enjoyed earnings-related unemployment benefit had to spend 500 or 400 days with earnings-related daily allowance and 300 days with labour market support before you could receive this earmarked money. That is why it is extremely important to see what the effectiveness of the laws is. Here again, the legislator certainly did not mean that,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u78	Let's take Mr. Andersson and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u79	Madam President! Minister Tiilikainen's statement that the government is prepared to revise its line on the Ara-funded income checks is very welcome. In my opinion, one of the problems with these standards has been that they have not actually affected all Finns, but that the government's government programme would actually increase the control and bureaucracy of those living on social security. In addition to these income adjustments, proposals could also be made to offset unemployment benefit and to limit the right to day care. This aspect of unemployment protection has also been mentioned here as a good example of de-bureaucraticism. I think it is a good example, above all, of making social security more flexible, but not of dismantling red tape, because in order to make use of this protective part of unemployment security, those who have to go through quite a paper war at the moment. As far as I am concerned, it essentially highlights the fact that, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u80	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u81	Madam President! I'll try to go over it quickly. There's a lot of questions here. First of all, Mr Turunen asked about this ministerial working group and its timetable, the plans. The content of the work of this ministerial working group includes the digitalization experiments, the dismantling of standards and better management, and this is perhaps the most cross-sectoral of our key projects and objectives. This is actually this kind of whole government work characteristic that now attempts to look more cross-administratively also with this collegial working method. They asked me about the opening hours. They exist on the lists. I don't know what the schedule is yet. Mr Lindtman and Mr Rinne, you asked how the opposition will be involved and whether parliamentary preparation will be forthcoming. Last season, Mr Grahn-Laasonen drew up a parliamentary group, the results of which we now have here as a basis. Now this debate has been thought of as this sort of goal and referral debate, and on the basis of this, we are now going to clean up the regulations and reflect on the way in which this will then be carried through and how to cooperate with the opposition. I want to be very open to all forms of cooperation with the opposition. This is definitely a matter for us. But I'm sure there will be many levels of activity here. There is also a lower level of regulation, which can be dismantled quickly and made easier. But this parliamentary work last season is the basis for this. Then, Mr Henriksson, you asked about this in order to remove the needs test that came from outside the EU and the EEA. We have made some progress on this. For experts now take such company-specific practices, dismantled there bureaucracy and standards for it. Representative Lapintie asked about the regulation of the grey economy. Of course, this is a common problem and it still needs regulation. Congressman Wallin, you made cross-administrative examples. This is, of course, also the point of view all the time. Mrs Tuppurainen, Mrs Kääriäinen: I believe that devolution of the administration towards the people is also an important part of the de-bureaucratic process. We must trust that decisions can be made close to people. Mr Gustafsson, Mr Rinne and Mr Pekonen asked questions about the qualification of municipal tasks. If I remember correctly, in the previous period the goal was also to reduce municipal tasks by about one billion. It didn't work out. We must now distinguish between this qualifier and the abolition of standards and the application of agility. Some of these are clear when it comes to cutting down on savings. But as a librarian's son, the library thing does play an important role. Finally, as an example: today, a private individual can start a business and receive a Y ID, which is an example of how we can dismantle regulations through digitalisation. Mr Räsänen also has this notification procedure on the money-gathering licences on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u82	Mr President! It is very good to hear that the Prime Minister is open to cooperation with the opposition in this whole area, which is about deregulation and deregulation. However, I would like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term there was a great deal of opposition to government cooperation on a number of issues, and I would also like to hope that this can be followed in a way which will lead to the joint preparation of matters going beyond the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u83	Mr President! The government really is on the right track in this search for the right kind of regulation, in the dismantling of unnecessary bureaucracy. What is also extremely important is that the government is really on the move right now, because standards are extremely easy to set, they are extremely easy to add, but extremely difficult to dismantle. Agriculture is certainly one of the first sectors in which we really need to get moving quickly in this crackdown on standards. But this regional government was also raised here, and it is very good to hear that the Prime Minister was very positive about this development of regional government. It is indeed true that the dismantling of standards is also relevant from the point of view of regional government, that is, the more decision-making power is transferred there close to the regions and the citizens, the less control and management from above is needed and, overall, closer to people. I hope this is where the government really is.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u84	Mr President! There is a definition here of what these standards are, and they are some of the laws laid down to protect something or someone. However, over time the standard may have become obsolete, and since then it has been corrected by another law and since then again by a third, and finally the fourth law refers to that first law. So breaking standards is a little tricky. That is why officials must be very active in this, because they are preparing them. My question to the Prime Minister is this: have officials, according to your knowledge, now understood the crackdown on the standards of this political will? And the second thing: Competitive legislation is so standard that small or new players cannot cope in practice. Do you believe that competition law can be considered?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u85	Madam President! The administrative burden on companies, for example in the construction, transport, commerce, restaurant, small brewery and tourism sectors and, for example, in the hairdressing and hairdressing sectors, has reached a point of law that even hinders the growth of Finnish work. This applies to all sectors of working life and, in particular, to small enterprises with a population of between 20 and 50 people, which create an unwillingness to grow. Long licensing practices, complaints between authorities about each other’s decisions slow down and even hinder investment and future economic growth. The bureaucracy, slowness and one-off nature of licence applications increase the cost of Finnish work and cause incompetence in almost all industries, but especially in the domestic energy industry. I would therefore like to thank the government for taking this up. Mr President! So I ask Mr. Prime Minister: Have you evaluated,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u86	Mr President! Bad regulation can be found in every sector and not least in planning and construction, as has already been mentioned here. Strict average size requirements should be shifted to demand-based planning. Why? Planning regulates the average size of dwellings to be built, but at its worst creates an imbalance between demand and supply. For example, here in the capital region there is of course a demand for small dwellings, but they cannot be built much because of the average size requirement. For example, it is 75 square meters in Helsinki. Another example: The national objectives for the use of regions should definitely be clearly documented that ecological rural development, in fact, is in the interests of society in the fight against climate change, for example. In the current objectives, the condensation of the urban structure overrides all these other good objectives. We should finally get rid of this too. You have to live and build in the countryside, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u87	Mr President! Mr Karimäki raised the issue of dismantling accessibility standards here earlier. I myself am a little concerned about the government programme's record that housing is required to be accessible housing for a certain proportion of the dwellings in the new destination. Perhaps there is a misconception behind this idea that building unhindered dwellings would be more expensive than building other dwellings. This is not true, for if accessibility is taken into account at the design stage of construction, accessibility does not entail any additional costs for construction. Accessibility is a question of equality. This government proposal would mean that disabled persons would not be able to choose a dwelling for themselves on an equal basis with others. In addition, consideration must be given to the cost of changing the dwelling to society if, for example, the person becomes disabled or the ability to function is weakened as a result of ageing. Failure to build accessible construction may entail additional costs at a later stage,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u88	Mr President! Deregulation of excessive and unnecessary regulation is a good thing. Norms and unnecessary bureaucracy are promised to be dismantled, but then the other hand is added. The Government Programme's guidelines on fixed-term leases and income controls for Ara-subsidised sites and the guidelines on housing support create a huge new bureaucracy for housing and increase the control of people. At the same time, areas and houses of the poor are created and housing and residential areas are differentiated. In addition, an incentive trap will be created for employment when, as Mr Lindtman pointed out earlier, work is not necessarily taken up in fear of losing a dwelling. It makes me feel like we're shooting at a rather non-existent problem with a bazooka now, because according to statistics, Ara apartments are already targeting mostly low and middle incomes. For example, the average gross income level of Oulu Sivaka is EUR 1176 per month, which can be considered very low. I'd like to ask if it's worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u89	Ärade talman, Mr President! I thank the Prime Minister for giving me an answer on this issue of labour needs. It is a good step for experts to start now, but it would be good to go all the way to the end now, otherwise we will soon have a huge number of experts in the greenhouses. But there has also been much talk here, Mr President, of giving regions and municipalities more power of decision. That is a good principle, but we must also remember that the world is not so black and white. Today we already have examples of legislation that has led to the inequality of citizens across Finland. I am thinking, for example, of support for informal care, which is now paid in municipalities and where the criteria are different in different municipalities, so it would be good for the citizen to have uniform practices here. I know that, among other things, the Centre has previously felt that support for informal care should be transferred to Kela. It has also been the Swedish People's Party
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u90	Madam Speaker! After all, the characteristics of good regulation are its predictability and proportionality. One might say that a bad example of this is the waste water legislation in sparsely populated areas, which has probably taken up about ten years in this Chamber. The obligations and costs of the system are indeed disproportionate, and these developments in this legislation have been very unforeseeable. However, the transition period has been extended on two occasions and derogations relating to age and the situation in life have been increased along the way, some of the properties of dry land have been liberalised, but the confusion of advice and equipment brought to the market in a hurry, which has not functioned as expected, and variations in regulation have also raised consumer protection and legal security concerns. As I understand it, there is a working group in the Ministry which is currently considering this change in the legislation on waste water. What is coming now — I would have asked the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen — and how these aspects of consumer protection, including legal protection, are to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u91	Madam President! There is a good thing about this dismantling of standards. One is this regulation, which we ourselves have done here in Parliament. It has also been pointed out that if decision-making is delegated to the provinces and municipal decision-makers, then not all things will be taken into account. There are also a significant number of decision-makers in this Chamber, and I wonder where the wisdom of this journey will now be lost to the decision-makers if we are able to make the standards here and then, when we become municipal decision-makers, we will not be able to monitor it. Personally, I trust colleagues that the decision-making process in that municipality will be successful and the benefits will be taken care of. I have in my hands from the Kouvola region such that if opportunities are held, there are about thirty articles for the organiser of the event for the permit application for which different voluntary organisations must apply for an answer when the permit is granted. This would be a good example of how standards could be dismantled and clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u92	Mr President! This is supposed to break standards that are contrary to reason. Laws have been drawn up on the principle that, in the interests of certainty, even horse manure was banned, even though the EU did not ask us to do so. Even the energy certificates of the houses are completely useless, we will be doing very well without them, and I ask how soon we will be able to get rid of them. The representative, Mr Henriksson, was concerned because we held to the need for labour for those outside the EU and the EEA. It was very sensible to keep it because we have nearly 400,000 unemployed here in Finland. Congressman Lindtman wants to cooperate. So do we want to work together and accept the proposals that are sensible and smart.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u93	Mr President! The streamlining and reduction of licensing processes are concrete ways and effective means of promoting investment and the creation of new jobs. It has already been pointed out in the past how much has been achieved on the part of environmental management in this area. In his speech on the permit processes, the Prime Minister raised this service promise regarding the permit processes. I would have asked in concrete terms whether this is now a question of setting a time limit for processing, and if so, how will it be ensured that these time limits are met, and whether some sort of sanction has been considered?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u94	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz had a bit of a darkening effect on this moving spirit by devoting the capital of a sensible group of regulations. Minister Grahn-Laasonen also reminded me of the list drawn up by him and then Mr Männistö in the year before yesterday with the title K18 star sawp and 45 unnecessary rules, guidelines and bans. In their view, the most ridiculous of all ridiculous standards was, of course, this star sawp which cannot be used by a minor, and of course it could be. Well, it is a winter party and especially for children, so this standard can well be dismantled, as it is done by the bourgeois government. The children were completely free to burn star sawdust until Vanhanen’s second government, which ran through the amendments to the Chemical Safety Act just under Christmas 2009. In this Chamber, none of the people in the United States or downtown opposed it, let alone considered it a ridiculous norm. So every party here is allowed to look in the mirror, and every party also has good achievements.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u95	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u96	Mr President! Some answers to some questions. Mr Heinonen asked about this timetable. In the Government Programme there are a lot of housing-promoting entries, in general the building-promoting entries, and the zoning powers that are transferred to local levels. Some of these will be brought to Parliament as Government proposals already in the coming autumn. Some require longer preparation, and since good regulation also involves careful preparation, they will not be able to reach Parliament until a little later. But the head will be open this fall. Representative Essayah asked about this issue of waste water in sparsely populated areas. Indeed, it has been postponed a number of times, and now the government will solve this problem in the manner recorded in the Government Programme, and I have thereby denied that task force. Representative Aalto asked who was responsible for environmental protection, for example, if the Minister of the Environment no longer confirms the regional plans. Power and responsibility go hand in hand. The regional councils then answer that the formulas are legally drawn up and the various functions are placed in a reasonable way, in harmony with each other. There was still a question here about the regulation on the construction of wind power. I have not had enough time to look into it yet, but of course that regulation will be adopted. And finally, as a sugar on the bottom: these are many small decisions, and today I have signed the decision that big and small cows should be in the same size in the future. No beards of different sizes for cows of different sizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u97	Finally, Prime Minister Sipilä, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u98	Mr President! Thank you for the constructive referral debate on this dismantling of standards. Just a few more questions I'll pick up over there where the answers will be. Mr Jalonen asked about the will of the officials for this change of political will. We have many things that call for a repositioning of both us politicians and officials, and this cross-administrative thinking and consideration is one such thing, and then that is the fact that we are going to start actively dismantling standards is another. But the good Finnish civil service will go along with this, and I am absolutely convinced of that. Representative The shoemaker asked for a timetable for this dismantling of standards. Now we are going to prepare things on this basis in such a way that during the autumn we will then bring all the other key projects to Parliament in one way or another. For informal care support, Mr Henriksson: This is one of the few things to which more money was allocated during the government negotiations. The 75 million is not enough for the Kela transfer, which in a certain way would also lead to the dismantling of standards, would make the operation more efficient, but that 75 million is not enough and will then be used to develop informal care in other ways. Mr Essayah raised this issue of predictability, which is extremely important. In business, in particular, this predictability of legislation is extremely important. Congressman Mäkelä, you brought up this service promise. That content is exactly what you told me. The timetable and more detailed content will now come in the autumn. Thank you for the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u99	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for the opportunity to present the Attorney General's Annual Activity Report for 2014. As the report shows, the role of the Chancellor of Justice [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Minute. — Will you move outside the negotiations and avoid moving, focus on a magnificent presentation and then a lively debate. Thank you. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u103	Mr President! Thank you for the informative report to Attorney General Jaakko Jonka and Chief of Staff Kimmo Hakonen. There are a number of points that could be raised from the report, but I only raise four issues, perhaps even isolated ones, which are relevant to the implementation of fundamental human rights and human rights of citizens. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice once again raised the issue of the citizens' fundamental rights, the excessive length of time for dealing with pending cases. We have been talking about this for years, but the problems do not seem to have diminished. It is also worrying that, according to the complaints, reorganization of the activities of the authorities often appears to mean that the handling times of the authorities are prolonged. The authorities even use as justification for long processing times the fact that there have been changes of this kind in the organisation. According to the Chancellor of Justice, these are not valid arguments. It becomes particularly difficult if a person has to wait an unreasonable period of time for decisions on his or her own basic income. The Chancellor of Justice's report mentions, among other things, a person who had a period of more than 2 years 8 months to deal with an appeal against invalidity. This is no longer reasonable from the point of view of the person awaiting the decision. Another area of concern is the lack of implementation of children's rights. It is particularly worrying if and when children even have to wait for psychiatric treatment. In such situations, children do not have time to wait; treatment must be arranged quickly. Of particular concern is the fact that 36 percent of children waiting for treatment in one hospital district were expecting it for more than the maximum legal period. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the concern expressed by Deputy Chancellor of Justice Risto Sandkatavale in his speech about the impact of e-services on services. Increasing e-services must not mean that people seeking health care, social services, employment services, child welfare and so on do not get to face-to-face with the relevant official if they wish or need basic services. This is very well described by Christopher Sands. A direct quote from him: "The concern and pain of a single parent living below the minima of action will not be passed on to the official through the webcam." In the same way, it may be asked who will help an elderly person who has not learned how to use electronic services if the services are transferred entirely to the network. Improving the efficiency of service activities must not mean preventing or unduly hampering the customer's right to face-to-face encounters and help. Mr President! Fourthly and lastly, on the report by the Chancellor of Justice, I would like to highlight his observation that there is still a need for basic and human rights training. Many officials who practice basic and human rights through their official activities do not have legal training, and this may lead to confusion and lack of action. By increasing training, both initial and in-service training could be better ensured for the proper management of matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u104	Madam President! I'm going to bring up the same thing here. There are a lot of good things here, but those processing times made me think. Indeed, it is our fundamental right to have matters dealt with without delay. But we should also consider why, rather than just thinking that this is a bad thing — as it is. There is talk here that organisational changes and issues of this kind must not affect the handling of the matter. But I myself have been a lawyer at the Local Register Office and the Court of Justice, and what do you do when there are no more staff and everything, even moving boxes, is left to officials? It's a fact. So then the superiors, the agencies and even the parliament must ensure that these things are done in a controlled manner. It is very important, indeed, that matters are dealt with without delay, but we must always remember those human issues there in the background. I understand that the deliberations of the Chancellor of Justice may not have anything to do with finding solutions, that is more for us and the municipal authorities, we have to give them the tools. Perhaps I am a little tired of the constant barking of the authorities when we have left them there alone. That is why it is very important that we have this piece of legislation, because then the authorities will also be able to concentrate on those essential issues. And at least I myself have a lot of ideas for the ministers, which means we can cut back on all unnecessary work. Let's focus on the essentials, let's leave those lily stalks a little less — there's a lot of that. And if it were the chancellor and the Ombudsman's handling times too, it would be shorter if there were no complaints about these processing times.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u105	Madam President! According to the Chancellor of Justice, the transfer of a suspected crime by the police to the head of the prosecutor's investigation should be considered on lower criteria than required for the initiation of a preliminary investigation. I have also noted this in my previous work. In the age of Chief Executive Paatero, the threshold for the preliminary investigation of police crime investigation has been so low that the Prosecutor General’s Office chokes, among other things, on police crime cases and, at its worst, the prosecution will take more than a year. In this case, policemen and their families hang in a loose hang for unnecessarily long periods of time. Policemen's legal security has fallen to a very low level due to the very lower threshold of pre-trial investigation and the lack of resources of the Prosecutor General. Current law enforcement reduces the healthy curiosity of the nature and work of police work, the active search for information and the maintenance of a situation picture. It is easy for a single police officer to see why I should be active and look for information on my own initiative when the organisation and society do not want it and possibly even punish it. I'm not talking about Mika Myllylä or Matti Nykänen's cases here. I'm talking about police work in general. Unfortunately, too strict judicial control is easily turned against its supervisor, and this is not the purpose of supervision. In the opinion of the Attorney General, it is justified to refer the case to the prosecutor for consideration whenever the suspect's proceedings can be identified so that it may be able to satisfy the criminal record. I think it is worth asking here whether police traffic offences or endangerment of road safety are also included. I know of police forces where policemen automatically receive a penalty from their superiors after driving, for example, a police car on an icy road to a snow bench — an act that is potentially endangering road safety. An ordinary road user may, if circumstances permit, receive an oral or written remark from the police, but a fine is written to the police, as it were, in the sense of certainty, on the principle of 'if a person makes a request or even a complaint'. In my view, this kind of action threatens equality and equality before the law, or at least its sense, and is likely to undermine the credibility of the judiciary. It's also a matter of the police officer's legal protection. According to the report, the majority of complaints against the police concern pre-trial investigation and the use of various coercive measures. In general, the complainant considers the pre-trial investigation to be incomplete or the decision not to submit the pre-trial investigation to be incorrect. The length of the investigation is also often criticised. In the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, the best and most unproblematic way to achieve the self-crimination protection of the police officer who is the subject of complaints would be to provide an answer as early as possible on the possible criminal nature of the case. On this point, I fully agree with the Chancellor of Justice. Mr President! The resource situation of police justice units is poor in some police departments, as in many institutions the basic function of the judicial unit, i.e. the monitoring of practical legality, is inadequate, because the unit's limited resources are being spent on handling complaints and on monitoring the legality of the organisation itself. The Justice Department of the Eastern Finland Police Department is an example of good resources, because there are three people in the unit, so it is also possible to carry out comprehensive judicial supervision in addition to complaints. At the moment, there is only one superintendent working in the justice department of the Eastern New Zealand Police Department, so there the official’s contribution will not even be sufficient to deal with complaints on a timely basis. I would like to see a quick change to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u106	Madam President! The Chancellor of Justice of the Government has a wide range of tasks in Finnish society. On the other hand, he acts as the supreme judicial officer, receives complaints from citizens when they have felt that the authorities have acted, the officials have done wrong to them. On the other hand, however, the Chancellor of Justice of the Government has at least as important a role to play as the Government, the government of the country, as it were, as a legal, legal, adviser, and is already seeking to take care of it in advance, just as our Constitution requires that all the decision-making of the Government, all the drafting of the law, be subject to strict law. I look forward with great interest to discussing the report of the Chancellor of Justice in our Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I was thinking here of throwing a few chips and ideas to Parliament and also to our committee on this report — a few aspects of the referral debate. First of all, I took very serious care in that report, its introduction, about the fact that severe economic times are being lived and savings and adjustments are being made in all areas of state administration, that judicial administration is dealing with small criminal and civil matters as well as administrative and administrative proceedings are being extended, and the threat is even that — and indeed, the threat has already been realised when people are watching and living in that everyday area — that small crimes, even small violent crimes, are not being investigated in the same way. Property crimes have long been such that police energy has not been used to steal bicycles. In the same way, just as the Chancellor of Justice of the Government, I see it as a very negative development for Finnish society if the situation arises that smaller cases cannot be dealt with in formal proceedings, smaller crimes will not be solved in formal proceedings. It slowly undermines the belief that Finland is the rule of law. It undermines faith in the police, it undermines faith in the courts, the prosecutors. It is also very important that the various legal issues can be dealt with within a reasonable period of time, regardless of the type of case. In the British and American world there is an English saying such as "Justice Delayed is justice Denied". In other words, dealing with matters that have gone too far means the same as not being dealt with. It is surprisingly important for the citizens that even their small cases, even a small dispute, the purchase of a washing machine, can be dealt with, for example, by the Consumer Dispute Board and a person can find a solution to his own case. And even if it is a negative decision, man feels that he has been heard and taken seriously. I am afraid that if we do not manage to keep the police's resources good in all the cases in Finland, we will gradually end up in a court of our own hands, we will gradually end up in a state of lawlessness. Mr President! Finland is living in a time of reform and reform. We have also heard about this for a couple of hours today when we had this debate on debureaucratisation, and there are a lot of major key projects in the government programme that we want to take forward. There were also various development projects in public administration during the last parliamentary term, and, of course, all of us in Parliament are somewhat different from each other, depending on the party position and where we are in the Chamber and whether we are in the opposition or in the government. But the observation that can be made from there is that, yes, when these major reforms are taken forward, as was the case with the municipal reform in the last parliamentary term, when the reform of social services is being carried out now during this parliamentary term, it is extremely important that those constitutional issues are taken seriously even at the beginning of the legislative process. And I hope, on behalf of the ministers of our new government, Juha Sipilä, that the Chancellor of Justice will also step up his own efforts as a legal adviser to the Government, so that we do not end up in a situation where the Constitutional Committee finds that this reform, this reform, is not feasible in the current constitution. — — — — Of course, when you read that report, you will also see that we have to carry out the reform of social welfare and health care. There are so many points that people do not get their basic income, people do not receive treatment everywhere in Finland on an equal footing because the municipalities are running out of money. And here we politicians have things to do, it is not the Chancellor of Justice. Mr President! I would also like to comment on the supervision of legal advisers and lawyers. There has now been a long process of litany, not only of lawyers, public legal advisers, but also of such a new group of persons, known as licensed legal advisers, they are also referred to as licensed lawyers. Mr President! In fact, the undersigned is still there on the list of licensed lawyers, and I have done this work as a new person under general supervision, both under the supervision of the Supervisory Board in connection with the Bar Association and under the supervision of the Chancellor of Justice. I think it is good and it is important that all people who deal with the legal affairs of ordinary citizens should be subject to supervision in criminal matters, family matters, successions. I think it is a question of legal security and the rule of law. However, at the moment this licensing system, which we have created in Finland, has gone from ditch to allikko. This is one of the possibilities for debureaucratisation. The current situation is that, with limited opportunities for those who are allowed to appear in court and who are allowed to assist people in their legal problems, this has exacerbated the shortage, the shortage of qualified legal advisers, of which The Bar Association has also pointed out that we have places in the country where citizens no longer want to get a lawyer for themselves if they need help when their case is in court. I personally think it is important, Mr President, that, apart from having police services throughout the country, we should also have a network of well-informed legal advisers throughout the country. No one in Finland may be convicted until a final judgment has come. There must also be equal access to legal aid. One thing that has been overlooked somewhat in that report by the Chancellor of Justice is this so-called civil service case. This is a very problematic issue, and we all recognise and acknowledge that there is religious freedom in Finland and that there must of course be broad religious freedom, but I share the concern that Mr Zyskowicz has expressed many times in this Chamber. Although fundamental and human rights are extremely important and must not be compromised, basic and human rights must not be made so theoretical and so foreign to practical life and Finnish culture that our good, beautiful, fine ways cannot be carried out in our schools or other public services. I therefore encourage the highest law enforcement officers as well as us legislators and officials to consider how we can secure a beautiful Finnish tradition that sings a summer song in all schools in such a way that no one, not a Lutheran or a non-religious, is violated. I am quite sure that there are practical ways of doing this, and we will not waste our fundamental rights system because the Constitution is given interpretations that are not practical. The second time such interpretations of practical life have been presented, has taken place this spring, when the Assistant Ombudsman, the second big legal administrator, which we have in Finland, gave the solution that top athletes who represent us internationally, could no longer tailor their own solutions. I understand the issue of equality, but once again I encourage public authority to find a sensible solution to this too, to find a solution that allows top athletes to go to the army, NHL players to get in touch and show that they value Finland and the defence of their country, but it is done in such a way that Article 6 of the Constitution is done. the protection of non-discrimination is not jeopardised. Madam Speaker! Professor Kaarlo Tuori, who is also very much used by the Constitutional Committee as an expert, has spoken of the issue of the balance and voluntain of justice. These fine Latin words mean that when we legislate, even if the municipalities are subject to a trial law so that new practices can be launched, it is the volume of justice. But the rule of justice is that it is also limited to our exercise of power, that neither Parliament nor the decision-makers can do exactly what they want. And I still think it is important that we keep both sides on the table in our system. It is very valuable that we have the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman to complain to, and I think it is important that these extensive legal security opportunities are also maintained in difficult economic times. Although the debate is taking place, the traditions and principles of the Western rule of law and the Nordic rule of law must be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u107	Let us take the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u108	Mr President! In response to Mr Kurvise's speech, I would simply have said that these Western and Nordic legal principles are not in danger in Finland. On the other hand, however, it has to be said that it was refreshing to hear Mr Kurvise speak. I have felt that I have been a voice in the wilderness in this Parliament when I have tried to say that Parliament must hold on to its own legislative powers and that not all matters in Finland can be fundamental rights and human rights issues, and then, in practice, two or three professors of law decide on them. For example, in the last few days we have been able to read that almost every aspect of the government programme is unconstitutional: not to try the basic income, not to try anything else, not to limit the right of appeal, not to mention to make legitimate and necessary savings in our social security system. How wonderful it is that Mr Kurvinen rightly paid attention to these matters and to the need for common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u109	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u110	Madam President! There has been a good debate here about last year's report by the Chancellor of Justice, and I myself have written a few things down. I welcomed the fact that a sensible solution has been found in recent years to respect the Finnish tradition. I myself count the summer stream and the Christmas tableau in comprehensive school into this kind of Finnish tradition, which must be continued. Although Finland internationalises and comes to different religions, including non-religious schools, the Finnish tradition includes the summer song, as well as the Christmas gospel and so forth. Sometimes I wonder, for example, that I do not believe in the god Thor, but I have not told the chancellor that on Thursday I have to come to work and use that name on Thursday according to the god Thor. It is an old tradition that tells of the time when a god like this was believed in in Finland, and I think that tradition can also be cherished through the name Thursday. Or I have not heard any nonreligious or atheist complain that he is not allowed to go to work on church holidays but has to spend them on holidays when we celebrate them, such as Midsummer, Easter and Christmas. Those holidays seem to be good enough, however, and I think they too are an important part of the Finnish tradition, and I hope that they too will be preserved, even though there will be more different religions and non-religiousness in Finnish society. The Chancellor of Justice has been accused of restricting the use of mobile phones during school days. In fact, as a teacher, I was able to work, and then, in fact, these phones came into everyday life also for children, even the smallest children had access to phones. In my opinion, it has been quite justified that these telephones should be kept off-line during the school day. Parents have also had the opportunity to communicate with their children in different situations through the teacher and school. I welcome the fact that this decision by the Chancellor of Justice has also stated that the radiation risk is not sufficient to request the closure of telephones, but that every schoolboy must have the right to a peaceful learning environment in order to ensure that the right to education is properly achieved. Those who take part in education must have a peace of work, stated, and this is justified, and then mobile phones should be kept at least silent and certainly closed for smaller children, for example. Then the second, bigger thing that I have been thinking about is the use of these devices also in teaching. The right to free and equal basic education is also highlighted in this report, and this is quite a legitimate, well-founded approach: not everyone currently has a mobile phone, a smartphone, not to mention laptops or tablets, and in this regard the Chancellor of Justice has stated that, in accordance with established practice, pupils are using their own equipment for sports hours, but has given guidance to the Ministry of Education and Culture to consider and determine how the right to basic education is fulfilled. This is something that, in my opinion, needs to be clarified in such a way that we can make use of the equipment that children and families have, but in such a way that they do not cause bullying or, on the other hand, do not make it possible for everyone to use the same equipment — they need to be provided by the school. I am sure we will encounter this question more than once, for example, in the case of matriculation books, where the solution now seems to be that our own portable computers are being used, which may also not be able to guarantee the level of security required for matriculation examination. I am sure that we will have to return to this matter already during this term of government. Mr President! This debate has brought up a number of deadlines on various issues, and I welcome the fact that the government programme has included a number of different deadlines for processing, and this is the kind of thing that is needed. This is the representative. The sea pointed out that often resources are not sufficient to do so, but as we move in this direction, that we set processing times and processing guarantees for different decisions by the authorities, then the resources follow them. e-services have also sparked debate today, and I myself have tabled a written question and a proposal to the government of our country on network accessibility, which is an important part of this when, to an increasing extent, we want or do not want, the services are going online and are going online. It will then be important to ensure that they can also be achieved for the visually impaired, for example, but network accessibility legislation would also guarantee that those who do not have the skills to use IT equipment will be able to make use of these services. We have good examples, but we also have a lot of public services that do not meet these accessibility requirements, and I hope that they will proceed with determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u111	Madam President! Thank you to the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office for their annual report and their presentation. Of course, it takes its own contribution to get to grips with this. Now, in general terms, the number of complaints has increased annually over the years. Similarly, it should be noted that the number of "no action" solutions has also increased proportionately. This is the subject of what you hear in that field as you go around and also in the run-up to the elections there are debates with the citizens. Well, I think that the reasons for the increase in the number of complaints should be more detailed, because the handling of cases leading to all complaints, litigation and complaints will increase the costs of all parties involved and will take a great deal of time not only from legal controllers but also from economic activity. Although court proceedings have been shortened, cost increases still occur, and a substantial reduction in the number of district courts is a threat to legal certainty. If complaints lead to changes and punitive action, they contribute to the reliability of the administration and create uncertainty and caution in the economy as well. The question might be whether the increase in the number of complaints is due to greater regulation of society’s activities, or whether the public’s sense of justice may have evolved. Of course, it can be asked whether it is possible that, among other things, the pressure on the courts raised by Mrs Mere will also result in a certain degree of indifference on the part of the authorities. That is what I am asking, not deliberate indifference, but working under pressure. With reference to the previous point, however, the impact must not be reflected in the quality of the solutions to the complaints and in the number of comments, as the public and the lawyers have the general phrase 'no cause' about the outcome of the complaints. I therefore take a direct quote here under the title of the report, Painful stories and law enforcement ex post. From this direct report: 'The complaints of their own group, in particular now, are based on the mentally and economically burdensome trials of redundant workers, small businesses in their honest business, or people who have fallen into difficulties, in which they feel that they have been deprived of justice or have been mistreated. In response to such complaints, I have tried to obtain, although writing myself, some kind of handicraft stamp which would allow the complainant to feel that he was being heard as a human being, not even the macros or the standard phrases added to a complex case-handling system. " This is well written, but the idea of ‘perhaps having been heard’ may, however, include the essential reason why the people do not always trust in judicial review and, on the other hand, that the accused official may continue along the path he has chosen, provided that the complainant has only the feeling of being heard. Should we Finns, who frasera we live in a state of justice and well-being, not be sure that our rights are not violated, and, on the other hand, if we are offended that judicial control works in such a way that we can be sure that our legal protection will be achieved? The number of complaints concerning the activities of the police continues to be highest, and the second will be the Court of Justice. From the Court of Justice, I would like to remind you of the answers to the questionnaire addressed to Yle 2 lawyers and courts last year. They may even draw the direct conclusion that even the judges do not dispute the so-called bad decisions, but blame them on the poor professionalism of lawyers and prosecutors. Then there's the story. In practice, we Members of Parliament do not have access to the documents of the complaints, but we have a prepared report on their activities, so the situation can be compared to the fact that auditors issue an audit report in favour of discharge without seeing the supporting documents or any other document on their activities. Nor do we see the documents relating to court decisions or the evidence which the President of the Court has not taken into the file. Well, as I said, this is also something that has been heard on the ground in the election debates or that has been spoken in the squares and squares on the basis of discussions with the citizens. People stopped by to say hello and talk about bad things and their hopes. Amazingly, many still feel that they have fallen into an unjust state, and they made requests for help. As a result of the cases in the Annual Report that have not led to any action, I will take up an article published in the Helsingin Sanomat by the former President of the Vaasa Court of Appeal, Erkki Rintala, on the inadequacy of judges and the quality of legal training and the lack of independent judicial administration. On the basis of an article, Mr Jacob Söderman, MP, left a written question on the subject in 2010. Although these ideas are not directly part of the report, I feel it is my duty, as a Member of Parliament, to raise these issues not only for the sake of legal certainty but also because every decision taken by the authorities, which has been appealed and received, shows that we have a lot of complaints and complaints. These persons have also taken a position because, according to a member of the Supreme Court, the permanence of judgments is a measure of judicial administration and the reliability of the courts. In other words, in the absence of any change in the decisions of the lower court or authority, the authority and reliability of the liquidator appear to remain. Finally, Mr President, although we are dealing with the activities of the Chancellor of Justice, I cannot fail to mention that a new Finnish record was reached last year in complaints to the Parliamentary Ombudsman. The figure was astounded — this 5,500 that was left — so that I remembered this. The feedback from the field continues to explain why there are so few complaints that have caused action in the decisions of the law enforcement officer.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u112	Madam President! When you read this report by the Chancellor of Justice last year, you listen to these speeches and mirror them in the debate that took place earlier in the day, there are, in my opinion, a great deal of these similarities. In my opinion, both the crackdown on standards and the many things that have happened here in the last year is very much about the use of common sense and, of course, how we want to interpret our law and what it affects us every human being. We have heard speeches here, too, on how teachers are, for example, babbling about certain things: whether or not the summer can sing. This causes awkward situations in the schools for teachers themselves but, above all, I think moral decay in this society. We have certain things that belong to Finnish traditions, Finnish culture, and we must be able to hold on to them despite the fact that one of these might be upset. You can always opt out of your own free will if, for example, you can’t listen to the summer. This annual report deals with two issues, namely processing times and time limits for complaints. These, though, cause very many problematic situations, where practical examples can be found, among other things. I think that the right of people to complain is a good thing in itself, but we have so many so-called professional chaplains or complainers, or those who really just want to make a nuisance of either municipal decision-making or neighbours or the like. It would be very interesting to know how many complaints the Chancellor of Justice receives from the same parties over and over again. Personally, I would be prepared — even when these experiments are raised and this red tape is dismantled — to intervene, among other things, in these complaints processes in such a way that we should have some sort of threshold money for the appellant as to the basis on which the complaint can be made. If there are observed such complainers, which these processes do not lead to, in a way, anything, then yes, these must be able to be addressed. They only slow down decisions and slow down the development of business activity and, in other words, make a nuisance, as I said earlier. There are very many examples of these processing times, and we must get to this society the guarantee of processing time, which has been mentioned today in this Chamber last time, that when you apply for a building permit, an environmental permit and so on, it can also be dealt with within a certain period of time. There has been a lot of talk here about human rights issues, about personal issues, when there have been permit issues, but also about business activities in the most difficult way. The way in which environmental regulations, for example, are interpreted at local level, in ely centres, in open spaces, is also a key issue in how we can develop economic activity in rural areas, for example. We have many flaws. One is that when a building permit, an environmental permit, for example, is applied for for for agricultural production buildings, their processing times may be so long that when investment aid applications are launched, they will not be available on time, in the framework of its application period, in the framework of its processing, and then these investments will be transferred to the following year or so that we will have decisions against the winter. This is, of course, our legislation as a result of EU bureaucracy, but these decisions will only come against the winter, which are bad times to build in the first place. But in any case, the sum sumrum: I believe that we need to make changes to these times of complaint, to the times of processing during this parliamentary term. In another matter, this general interpretation of laws, that of our own culture, we must also have the flair and interpretation that our society does not become odourless and tasteless and uncultural. I believe that we can do this if we want to do so, but I am sure that we will always have to do that with the interpretation of the Chancellor of Justice in our own legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u113	Madam President! The best interests of the child, the rights of the child in Finnish legislation are unfortunately still a line drawn in water, and basic rights in services are not realised, for example. Long waiting times have already been mentioned, for example, in psychiatric treatment. In my opinion, the tragic lack of access to services is particularly in the lives and in the case of children and young people who are placed outside the home. This has been pointed out years ago in previous reports. Access to services for children and young people often depends on the municipality in which they live, and so this also applies to those children who are placed, whose foster parents have the disproportionate task of fighting for the services they need, such as therapy and other support. The foster parents do not even have a legal position in the lives of children, but yet to them in this society there is somehow only a duty to provide these children with services, very necessary services. We all know that children taken into care have a variety of problems and traumas. They are desperately in need of these services. Very unequally in this society there is also mediation of custody disputes, and the issue is very different in different parts of the country. They place an excessive burden on the judiciary. Now this matter of mediation has been promised an improvement in the Government Programme, and I think it is extremely important, apart from these adults, so particularly important for the well-being of children, of course. Many children, if they can, are subjected to years of therapy when they have years of conflict in these custody disputes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u114	Madam President! On the basis of this report by the Chancellor of Justice, Mr Kurvinen and a few other representatives have touched on this one solution regarding the practice of religion or its manifestation in our educational institutions. It is important to bear in mind that, even if Deputy Chancellor of Justice Mikko Pumalainen gave the kind of solution to such a complaint, it recommended, as it were, that schools or the Education Government be given new guidance on this matter, so that these types of opportunities to practise religion be removed from schools, so that when the report of the Chancellor of Justice was discussed in 2013, the Constitutional Committee took a different and very positive position on this point, that, nevertheless, taking into account the long cultural historical traditions of this country, which are largely based on, for example, Christianity, the singing, singing, singing, yes, the practice of a single hymn, and there is no problem with this type of practice, such as stencils, in schools and educational institutions, as long as they are communicated to the guardians in advance, then there is an opportunity for the guardians and children who do not want to participate in these for any religious reason, and then there will be any other activity for that time. This is really important to underline that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a different line on this issue, and it is also, as it were, so that it is even recommended that these continue to be organised, that our cultural historical traditions be maintained, and I think that it is also in the interests of minorities to get to know what kind of Finnish society is in essence.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u115	Madam President! I would particularly like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for his encouraging words to the new Member of Parliament. Mr Pirkko Mattila also made an excellent long speech. I share Mr Mattila's concern that these decisions, which the Chancellor of Justice is actually making and the Parliamentary Ombudsman, would also be felt — if there has been a comment or a request to pay attention to a provision of the law — that the complainant genuinely feels that he has been given justice and that there is certainly greater efficiency in this. I also agree with Mr Mattila that we should set up such an independent judicial office, something that the Legal Union, among other things, has raised. It is precisely this concern, I believe, that has also been expressed by this former President of the Court of Appeal. I think it is very important that we should also be here in Parliament and have a wider debate on the Internet and on the press about the role of politicians, legislators and the role of courts, constitutional experts, because if we confuse these two issues, we will lose a lot. We will lose a genuinely credible monitoring system of constitutional compliance, which is good for us, a traditional one, by the Constitutional Committee. The Constitutional Committee was a real vertebrate one during the last parliamentary term, and I appreciate it. But I also think it goes beyond the credibility of politics if certain legal scholars can say that the government programme must not make such savings and such savings and, as it were, legitimise political issues. Let us look at political issues in elections and then at legal issues in independent courts, and the Constitutional Committee is also trying to keep the spine tight during this parliamentary term. I should also like to point out that such a single important legislative project during this parliamentary term is the reform of the legislation on parental responsibility and rights of access to children, because the Chancellor of Justice was particularly concerned about these cases. It's hard stuff, and I'm sure it'll take a new system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u116	Madam President! It is a good thing that this recent settlement by the Deputy Chancellor of Justice has also come to the debate in this context. It turned out that the Deputy Chancellor of Justice was of the opinion that at least the second verse should not be sung when it refers to God for the second time, that perhaps the first verse, at most, when it refers to God only once. Fortunately, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, as has been said here, thanks mainly to the representatives of Sasi and Outi Mäkelä, took this matter on its own agenda and stated very clearly that the summer virta can sing in schools very well at the spring celebrations and those whose religious beliefs it violates, of course, have the right, as has been the case to date, not to participate in these events. There is such a retrospect as to the fact that the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, in his introductory statement in the last Chancellor's report, drew attention to the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs went into his position and he considered it to be a somewhat incorrect procedure because he felt that if the Chancellor of Justice or the Deputy Chancellor of Justice were guilty of some kind of misconduct, it would then have been regulated by its own procedure and its own national courts. In my opinion, the interpretation of the Deputy Chancellor of Justice was incorrect. No one suspected him of any misconduct, but there is a difference of opinion about legal interpretations. For example, the fact that the Court of Appeal changes the decision of the District Court does not mean that there has been some misconduct in the District Court, and at least for the time being, the Constitutional Committee is the supreme authority in the interpretation of the Constitution. Finally, having read some of these positions of constitutional scholars, among other things, that savings are not to be made, because taxes can also be raised, the question does come to mind that this is how far it has come, that things like this are constitutional issues and not normal political considerations.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u117	Madam President! To this summer affair, however, this decision by the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, the confusion in the school field and also in early childhood education. We have had a lot of educational institutions here in the past, at least in Southern Finland, where there are no actual Christmas parties in the sense that we understand, at least in Ostrobothnia, for a long time, and they are ad hoc, vary from place to place. But I have also heard that such practices have now spread in Ostrobothnia, and I have wondered whether the legislator should now react in any way that the basic education law, on the one hand, can also be amended and strengthened in such a way that it is precisely those national traditions that we have and that the majority have the right to enjoy them, despite the fact that the minority does not necessarily like it. In other words, this type of follow-up may still be necessary in this respect. Hopefully, in the future, we will not have to read the kind of solutions that if a foreigner is actually applying for health care, for example, we should provide such an illegal resident with all the same healthcare as a Finnish citizen. I believe that only these essential services, the acute services for them, will continue to do nothing more. But having listened to our constitutional experts, they have a very different position on many of this issue, and it is quite frightening that as things stand in the future. But since we have the tripartite doctrine of power, I am not going here to anticipate any more, but I think that there should be some sense in this job, otherwise the money will not be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u118	Mr President! I would also like to say that it was very good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took this up. Much has already been said about the legal side of this issue, and I have nothing to add to it, but, let me say, the political or social aspect of it is also significant. When this solution came that this summer must not be played, it was easy for the people to interpret it so that it was somehow from immigrants that this idea would go this way, and then, as it were, there would be an entirely unnecessary confrontation between the native population and the immigrants, when I understand that this was not the case. The collapse of such things in this society makes sense to the whole. Mr President! Secondly, this recent debate on how individual savings would be found unconstitutional: I certainly regard that as an unfortunate debate and also as a key issue for the fate of the nation as a whole. I do not believe that there are any groups in this Chamber who, on ideological grounds, drive such savings — those who come to this debate — but it is more about being between wood and bark and then having to make savings that nobody would even suggest under normal circumstances. And if they start to be condemned as non-constitutional, so that they are not available, then the scope of the political decision-maker will be considerably restricted, and at its worst it may then lead to really significant problems for the nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u119	Madam President! Now that there has been quite a stir here about Deputy Chancellor of Justice Puumalainen, I remember, sitting in the Constitutional Committee last season, that this latest solution, the solution to a complaint about religious events organised by the school, such as morning comments and such, did not in any way concern the singing of summer virre at school. When Mr Pumalainen was before the committee and this was discussed, it was said that this was not the issue at the time of this solution, this possibility of singing the suvivirre at school, but the organisation of these occasions, such as the opening of the morning, in such a way that they were clearly religious. And as for the first verse of the summer stream, it does not mention God; it does not mention God until the second verse.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u120	Mr President! I agree with those speakers who are concerned about whether some of these legal interpretations go too far, that there is going to be a very restrictive interpretation and a healthy peasant mind. Of course, this issue has been discussed many times and, fortunately, a sensible interpretation has prevailed that, indeed, Finnish culture includes singing the summer stream at school graduations and, as has been said here, it should not offend anyone. Then it must be that those who live here in certain matters, who have developed their own culture, must have the right to do so in their own culture and practice it. Those who come here must take it into account, as we then give opportunities to believers in various ways to engage in their own culture. But when we talk about this, I will remind you of just one example, which, though, was an excellent shock in this area. It concerned not the Chancellor but the Parliamentary Assistant Ombudsman’s decision, which at one time came to the conclusion that the Vantaa Congregation could not distribute to each household its own newspaper containing information from the congregation because the reception of this magazine could violate the rights of those who did not belong to the church, and this was already denied once. Having had the necessary debate in Parliament on many occasions, I would like the senior law enforcement officers to take into account the point that I believe Parliament has made many times that this reasoning should also be used in this consideration. But do we not have the old judge’s instruction that what is not right and fair cannot be a law?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u121	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kantola for clarifying what is said in the various verses of the summer stream. Understandably, he is an excellent expert in this matter and I am extremely bad at knowing what is actually being said there. But the fact remains that the first verse does not violate freedom of religion, but when you go into another verse and then you obviously mention our Lord at least the first, perhaps several times, then it has become a problem. That's it. That's it. Second thing. I am very pleased that Mr Heinäluoma, the former President, has raised this issue of the limits of politics and law, and that this legal situation can be put in a situation where it has been interpreted as an overstatement. We certainly cannot agree with Mr Heinäluoma on all the border crossings, but it is already a good thing that Parliament is being raised to a wider extent to reflect on the extent to which the power of the two or three constitutional scholars here is actually settling when it comes to what Parliament is allowed to do and what Parliament — that is, the highest state body that enjoys the confidence of the Finnish people — must not do, and it is good that this has begun to be considered. After following the public debate, I noticed that a constitutional scholar — or, in fact, two of them — wrote that when the word 'economy' occurs so many times in the new government programme but the words 'human rights' and 'fundamental rights' do not appear, that too is a problem. Has it occurred to these gentlemen that if the economy is not in order, then there are not many rights at stake?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u122	Mr President! Our school establishment was born in the bosom of the church. The goals of international education are not realised by giving up their own identity, but by appreciating it. When we sing the summer song and if the word "God" is mentioned, no one will be reluctantly puffed up in faith. It is our culture and our tradition. It is also important to maintain one’s own culture and to ensure that the level of education of all pupils at school is good enough. Well, as a teacher, I can't just talk about bunnies when it comes to Easter. We need to know about our holidays, which is why we are celebrating them, and make sure that everyone knows our great culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u123	A debate on this subject is necessary, and indeed Mrs Zyskowicz has done an excellent job in this regard. I believe that this would be taken forward if Mrs Zyskowicz were prepared to make her own abilities available in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would therefore like him to think about this idea, and I am sure that if there is no room in the quota of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, then sos.dem. The parliamentary group is ready
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u124	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Mr Zyskowicz will present us with this, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The report of the Banking Council for the year 2014 is now under discussion. As last year, the risks of the Bank of Finland are dealt with in a separate sub-chapter. Similarly, the matters dealt with by the Banking Council and its assessments of the activities of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority can be found in their own sub-chapter. The report will normally focus on the events of the reporting year and its data will be based on the data available during the preparation phase in spring 2015. This year's report takes account of the proposal made in the report by the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs to distinguish between the roles of the European Central Bank as an actor in monetary policy on the one hand and those of the financial sector on the other. This has led to changes in sub-chapter 2.2 and 7.3 of the report. Compared with developments in previous years, the euro area’s economic outlook seemed rather favourable in early 2014. At that time it was estimated that the euro area economy would recover, although growth was still slow and uncertain. However, the outlook per autumn deteriorated again. Russia's ongoing and ongoing crisis in Ukraine was one of the sources of uncertainty. In line with its forward-looking communication launched in 2013, the Governing Council conducted a light monetary policy during the reporting year 2014. During June and September of the year, the Governing Council decided on the streamlining of monetary policy, liquidity-providing measures and measures to enhance the transmission of monetary policy to the real economy. These activities were driven by weak economic developments in the euro area and a slowdown in inflation. They further eased monetary policy and supported forward-looking communication. They were designed to ensure that the easing of financial conditions was passed on to the real economy. In the euro area, a significant part of the funding goes through banks, so it is important that the easing of monetary policy is ultimately reflected in bank lending rates. In December of the reporting year, the Governing Council decided to assess the need for further action in early 2015. Subsequently, at the end of the reporting year, the ECB announced that it would expand the purchases of assets. Madam Speaker! The composition of the Banking Union continued during the reporting year. As part of this, the ECB carried out a so-called comprehensive assessment of banks in cooperation with national authorities during the reporting year. The comprehensive assessment consisted of a harmonised assessment of the quality of bank claims and a stress test to assess the development of bank solvency under adverse economic conditions. The stress test will enable the banks to assess their ability to cope with exceptional situations. The comprehensive assessment focused on the 130 largest banks in the euro area. Its aim was to obtain a shared picture of the situation of euro area banks, the quality of the balance sheets and the resilience to losses before the ECB was given supervisory responsibilities. The results of the comprehensive evaluation were completed at the end of October 2014. According to the results, a large number of banks well explained the comprehensive assessment. The solvency of the Finnish banks involved in the comprehensive assessment — Nordea Bank Finland Group, OP-Pohjola Group and Danske Bank Group — clearly exceeded the required minimum levels. In November 2014, the supervision of banks under assessment following the comprehensive assessment of banks and after the stress tests was transferred to the Joint Supervisory Mechanism. The direct supervision of less significant banks within the Banking Union will continue to be carried out by national supervisors. However, the ECB shall ensure that supervision is based on uniform practices throughout the Banking Union. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the EU on a common banking crisis resolution mechanism entered into force in August 14. The Single Resolution Mechanism will be fully operational at the beginning of next year. In the future, the Single Resolution Mechanism will be responsible for the resolution of all banks in the countries of the Banking Union. The primary objective of the resolution mechanism is to enable banks with serious problems to be restructured in a controlled and rapid manner. The aim is to minimise the costs to taxpayers and the disadvantages to the real economy. Bank problems would be primarily borne by their owners, creditors and large-scale financiers, as is right. The aim is to put an end to the intolerable situation that banks' profits are private but their losses are shared. Madam President! I do not think that we can use this introduction today without mentioning Greece. No comprehensive summary of this is possible or appropriate. I would just like to say that the situation in Greece is extremely acute, that is, at this very moment, apparently quite literally, the finance ministers of the euro countries have come together on this issue. The over-indebtedness of Greece has been supported, lent and financed through several channels. The key to solving the crisis is ultimately the Greeks themselves. As I have said many times, the starting point cannot be that a country can constantly impose liability on others for its own debts. Let me be frank, it is difficult for me personally to understand the thinking of the Greeks on this matter. A couple of days ago, I watched a conversation on an English television channel where a Greek participant said that his retired, hard-working and tax-paying teacher mother was innocent of Greece’s current financial problems. I'm sure that's the case. But on the other hand: is not a Finnish or German or Dutch pensioner, or a taxpayer in general, even less responsible for the current problems in Greece? With what logic would it be for them to pay off Greece’s debts? I don't think so. Greece is now a concrete example of why it is important to take care of the solvency and risk buffers of the Bank of Finland. As part of the European System of Central Banks, the Bank of Finland has imputed financial contributions to Greek debt. The Bank shall have access to collateral and shall also have access to the own buffers of the Bank of Greece and the European Central Bank. However, if the worst possible option, the extreme option, is to be presented in a simplified way, it can be said that the calculated share of the Bank of Finland's Eurosystem capital key in Greece is currently well over EUR 2 billion. On the other hand, it has to be said immediately that if such a theoretical arrival were to take place in Europe, there would then be far greater sorrows than the insolvency of Greece. The Bank’s Board of Directors has regularly monitored the development of the Bank’s risk profile and balance sheet. The Bank’s Board of Directors is of the opinion that the solvency of the Bank of Finland was sufficient at the end of the reporting year to cover and continue to cover the risks arising from the performance of the Bank’s tasks. Madam President! Finally, the Bank of Finland’s profit for the reporting year 2014 was just over EUR 150 million. In the spring, the Board of Governors decided that EUR 12.6 million of the profits would be spent on building up the Bank of Finland's reserve fund. The remainder, i.e. approximately EUR 137.5 million, was transferred to the endless needs of the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u126	Madam President! This is where Mr Zyskowicz, the former President of the Banking Council, the current member, spoke well. I myself was chairman of the Banking Council in the early 2000s, when Mr Heinäluoma was vice-president. I remember when the Minister for Finance and Minister Wideroos
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u129	Madam President! As was said in the background, a good speech was made. I think it is important that, overall, Parliament always has this opportunity to look at the activities of the Bank of Finland. I am sure that today, as previous speakers have mentioned, the most acute issue is the situation in Greece. And, of course, from the point of view of Parliament and from the point of view of Parliament's budgetary authority, it is extremely important that we be able to grasp the overall risk, then it came through our own lending arrangements, then it came through the ECB, through the IMF and so on. That is why this is a very important debate which is taking place here today and in all these hours. I also believe that this role of the ECB — not only that price stability is always at the forefront there — but also as an opportunity to support general economic policy and employment considerations is very important today. President! As far as this Greece is concerned, it is also very important today to see what has happened over the years as a continuum. When all this started and in 2010 we discussed these possible support arrangements for the first time here too, we Social Democrats saw very strongly that, unfortunately, it may be that, at some point in the future, Greece will not be able to cope with this situation. That is why we wanted to safeguard taxpayers' risks and limit our responsibilities and we felt that there could be a need for guarantees in the future. We therefore required that, before lending, Finland should require access to securities and that investors should also take part in this arrangement. Well, this didn't happen. A bilateral loan was granted, for which Finland really does have responsibilities without collateral. But the policy of the SDP remains very consistent: when the next government came and once again we dealt with these issues, it was good that the Finnish line changed uniformly and that these following loans through EFSF were secured by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Jutta Urpilainen, and that was also when the investor's responsibility was carried out. And this was — today, if ever, we see — more than necessary. Now, thanks to this, we have around EUR 1 billion in the account to secure the claims of Finnish taxpayers in a situation where things would not go well. Of course, every one of us wishes,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u130	I want you to finish talking about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u131	Madam President! It is good that once a year the Bank of Finland is being discussed in Parliament, and you can speak here. Personally, from a lay point of view, I would like to point out that, in my own opinion, the international financial markets are always in crisis, they are always at the brink of a gap. In my view, there is no clear period of time, as it were, when everything would be easy to plan and take decisions on the basis of it. Some interesting figures in this well-made report are, for example, on page 12, Figure 13, where there is a surplus of the Finnish current account, which has been a deficit in the last four years. In my opinion, it is worth using a few words about this pattern because, when we do not have the euro area as a federal state, then it means that if a country makes a deficit, someone has to make a surplus, as I understand it, and if I do not remember quite correctly, then Germany has a cumulative surplus of over 1000 billion. And when Germany is the world's largest exporter of capital, it finances its own export industry, I believe that the euro has been particularly good for Germany — it may not be if Germany had its own mark — and since we are not a federal state, it means that we are on a permanent path to always having a deficit. If I myself were to assess this whole Eurosystem and its future, especially now that the European Central Bank, wrapped in various mechanisms and papers, has started to put more than 1000 billion again on the market, and it is uncertain that these countries will be able to correct their competitiveness in relation to Germany in particular, then we will continue to have these deficits and debt crises. And that is why I do not necessarily believe in a banking union. Although there are very good mechanisms now and here on page 38 there is also a general control mechanism in a number of different boxes and it gives us the impression that we can get through the European Central Bank, as it were, because supervision is concentrated there and has gone as if a small step in the federal direction, I am afraid that it would not give us the assurance that money markets are in good control. That is why we have to assess once a year from the perspective of the Bank of Finland and Finland, which is the future of the euro, and what will be Finland's possible response to this in the Eurosystem, because we are no longer able to devaluate, and that is why we will have difficulties because, for historical reasons, we do not have very large price and wage elasticities. And if this social pact now takes things in that direction without trampling on anyone's rights, it is perhaps the only way Finland can then improve its own competitiveness. That is why I feel that the plans of the current government, together with the social partners, to enter into negotiations on a social pact, are in line. If we are thinking about this situation at the moment, I am not an expert on Greece, but this may be the case, as Mr Ala-Nissila has said here, that there are problems with the Greek administration, but there may also be problems with the euro and the currency. Greece operates in an environment with a completely different wage and price structure in its neighbourhood. Turkey's taking the tourists away from it. In my memory, the Turkish lira has devalued quite a bit in seven to eight years: in time, the euro received 1.5 lira; now it gets 3. It is very difficult for Greece to operate in this context. And therefore it may be that Greece is permanently condemned to deficits and problems, and if Greece had its own money, its own currency, its devaluing rate would be between 50 and 70%. This is the way of Finland now, and we only have to discuss in this Chamber sometimes whether we are in that intermediate state: when we are not a very independent state, but when we are not a federal state, we are in an intermediate state, which may be the most difficult. History has shown that, if we have a monetary union, in practice it should probably have more of a federal state, because then these surpluses would be spread out to the countries that need them, and probably the destination where the surpluses should be put, would be the social side and unemployment benefits. Madam President! Here are some of my own views.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u132	Mr President! This situation in Greece is, of course, acute once again. Yes, it is absolutely necessary, as has been done so far, that the lenders have been very strict about the need for Greece to reform its own economy. Of course, it may not seem unusual or surprising to some extent, but of course the situation is interesting in such a way that it is now on this very lime line that the Greek Government is about to agree to the things that have been discussed for a long time. Time will tell if there's a solution. Mr President! However, I am much more concerned about the Finnish economy than about the Greek economy, and perhaps this House can do more about it. Of course, referring to the report of the Banking Council, the fact is that even during this light monetary policy, Finland has not been able to participate in the growth that has taken place almost everywhere else in the euro area. Yes, the obvious reason for this is that our competitiveness and the competitiveness of Finnish work are simply too weak. It will inevitably lead to a social pact being achieved in this country in such a way that it can improve competitiveness, improve employment in Finland, promote exports. I hope that all possible forces will support that solution, and that too will be discussed again today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u133	Mr President! There has been an excellent and necessary debate here today, particularly on the changed and changing role of the European Central Bank and, on the other hand, on its implications for us Finns. In fact, Mr Ala-Nissilä, the representative of the Bank, summed up this major change, which has taken place in two stages in the role of the ECB over the past few years. Interestingly, however, the mandate of the ECB has remained unchanged during this period. The only thing that's changed is the name of the CEO. In practice, since Draghi became President of Italy, the ECB's policy has become much more dynamic and stronger, and it has become not only this factor of price stability but also then aspects of supporting growth and hence employment. The change has taken place in two stages. First of all, the President-in-Office’s public statement alone was enough to halt financial instability and bring down the interest rates on southern European sovereign bonds. So there was no need to spend any money, there was only one speech, and there was actually one sentence. It is an indication of the enormous power of the central bank when it uses it in a thought-based and coordinated way. However, we know that this decision was not easy either and has been strongly protested by some of the German decision-makers. And now, of course, this second stage, the purchase programme, has reduced the financial markets and brought more money. After all, it was at the root of this deflation risk, which was also creeping into the euro area and which threatened to create new serious problems for the growth of the euro area as a whole. This purchase programme seems to have worked, and inflation is now moving closer to this target set by the ECB, close to 2% but still below. From Finland’s point of view, it must be noted that to some extent it is confusing — when we are such a legalistic society, which thinks that tasks are given to different authorities and they act according to these tasks — that if we want to change the role of an institution, then we change tasks and do not change practices. This has been confusing. The question remains that it would also be justified to reflect on the formal redefinition of the ECB's tasks, i.e. to take this growth and support for employment into official tasks in addition to the demand for price stability, as is the case with many other world central banks, including the United States of Fed. And since the activities of the United States of America, in many respects, have also served as a model for what we have seen now in the new President of the ECB, this debate on tasks should be reopened from this point of view. After all, Britain is currently conducting negotiations, at least in the direction of larger EU Member States, on how to restore some rights to national decision-making. Conservative Prime Minister Cameron has said that this should happen by amending EU agreements. If we are to enter into this debate and if it opens up, then we should think about this role of the ECB. The demands for this common currency for domestic economic policy and for domestic operators have been highlighted here. It is undisputed that the value of the euro was towed too high against the average needs of the euro area as a whole and then, in particular, against the needs and competitiveness of southern Europe, but also Finland. As a result of the changed activities of the central bank, the value of the euro has apparently come closer to the real performance of the euro area economies, and of course it will also contribute to strengthening Finland's competitiveness. It has quite rightly been pointed out here that our own adjustment to the single currency is clearly incomplete, and this applies both to the state and to the key players in the labour market as well. In the 1990s, when the changeover to the single currency was being prepared and discussed, several contributions and also various studies indicated that flexibility elements should be built up in conditions where the euro exchange rate does not meet the needs of the Finnish economy. It was stated, among other things, that there should be more flexible wage formation elements in the labour market, should be invested in the use of profit bonuses, performance bonuses, various bonuses and also in the use of human resources funds. There seemed to be considerable consensus on this. Then, when you look at what has happened, nothing has really happened, all the reports and performances in this regard have been put on the shelf. The same applies in the spiritual sense to the bulldozers that were then agreed to be built for precisely this type of problem we have seen in recent years. These were done both in the earnings-related pension scheme and in the unemployment insurance scheme. There is no consensus on the use of these bulldozers either, so it is certainly a matter of reflection on this domestic side and it is quite clear that the social agreement we are debating will not solve these problems and, in its present form, will not be sufficient to deal with these problems. Mr Ala-Nissila raised this issue of ECB supervision. The problem is not a crying problem, but it has clearly evolved and requires reflection. When the ECB’s activities have clearly changed as it takes more risk, while at the same time supporting the growth prospects of the euro area better, supervision should develop with these changing activities. It is obvious that the internal control of the bank is not sufficient, but that stronger hands and greater transparency are needed here, at least in the direction of the Member States and their parliaments. I think it is justified that this debate should come back to us on the basis of a separate reflection and preparation. Finally, we have to come to this question, to which Mr Zyskowicz, the esteemed President of the Bank Council, concluded his speech in Greece. This is also a worrying situation in relation to the speeches that have been made this week. We are always dealing with the big question of whether the euro area and its systems are going to be resolved on the basis of debt solidarity. On this issue, our earlier positions have been rather monolithic, and one can even say, almost without prejudice to the party position, that the euro area's activities must be built not on the basis of debt solidarity, but on the basis that each is responsible for his or her own debts. Those who are in difficulty can be helped, but it must be clear that the loan that leaves in the form of aid will then come back in the form of a loan once paid out. However, attention is now drawn to the fact that, at this current stage of the crisis, these speeches have been strangely silenced also in relation to Parliament. Nor have I seen, in the case of the leading governmental parties, any statements that insisted on this principle that there should be no solidarity of debts. I therefore hope that Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Ala-Nissilä and the representatives of the Finns living here will be able to relieve my fears to some extent by saying that Mr Heinäluoma can sleep at night in peace, that the current government will adhere to the premise that each country itself will not accept cuts in public debt that have come to deal with this crisis, not to earn money, and that these agreed guarantee arrangements which will contribute to safeguarding our claims will also be maintained in this context. I will therefore look forward to future contributions. It is now known that at the end of this week, tomorrow and Friday, the Heads will meet. According to press reports, there is the idea that the debt will be cut off and that it will be part of this solution, which Greece, of course, has consistently called for. To date, there has been a debt reduction for the original creditors of the private sector, the biggest cut in economic history seen, the removal of debt capital of more than EUR 100 billion, but they were creditors who had originally earned this. I do not think that the public money that has come to save Greece should be made to suffer from the desire to help the Greeks. There must be a clear line here for Finland and Finns, and that line must be guarded for the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u134	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma, sleep in peace at night, the government program takes a negative view of increasing responsibilities. Representative Viitanen, we have no guarantees, we have a revenue exchange agreement with the Finnish State and four Greek banks. Greece’s debt is 170 % of GDP. No country has ever been able to pay such a debt before. Mr Viitanen, Greece is insolvent. It would be interesting to know how much money, time and fuel has gone to emergency meetings in Greece and the euro. Why is it not possible to make the most economically sensible decision in the EU? Why cannot Greece be put out of the euro? According to Vesa Puttonen, Professor of Financing at Aalto University, at best, Finland will suffer only some EUR 6 billion in financial losses. The money will never come back. Money can handle money problems, but Finland has no money. Finns have suffered from membership of the euro area. Finland lost its economic independence and the ability to influence the external value of its currency when it joined the euro itself. After joining the euro, the Bank of Finland became a branch office of the ECB. No wonder no other Nordic country has wanted to join the euro. My personal opinion is that Finland should return to its own currency. The Bank of Finland has responsibilities related to the Eurosystem as a result of the implementation of the single monetary policy. Intra-Eurosystem claims held by the Bank of Finland at the end of February 2015 amounted to EUR 18.3 billion. I wonder what the risk is that the Bank of Finland's claims will not settle down.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u135	Mr President! Living in the conditions of the single currency is quite demanding. As far as Greece is concerned, the problem has now become that there is more just liturgy and less showcoat management, and that is how we cannot manage under the conditions of the single currency. After all, the centre was not in favour of rapid membership of the euro. It was a little like the one we had in Sweden that we were not ready yet. Today, Sweden is better at living in common currency conditions than Finland. Perhaps we could also take the example of the Baltic countries, where there has been a virtual internal devaluation. When Finland is the weakest country in the euro area exports, the Baltic countries are the best, and there the economy is growing rapidly when strong reforms were made — not entirely without problems, of course. The single currency can be a success, but it must live as the conditions of the single currency require in the context of global economic restructuring. When it is a single currency drawn by Germany, as was said, then you have to live like the Germans, if you want to simplify it a little bit. I don't think these buffer funds alone... They may be necessary, but basically it is a question of Finnish work and production having to be competitive and that we have the capacity to reform the Finnish economy so that it is sufficiently agile and competitive, as the Germans have done. This would be the road to what should be done in Finland when we are in the single currency. Greece, let me return to that: Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, the President of France, said that there is no euro without Greece, and Greece was taken there. I should never have taken it — we will probably agree on it today. But Finland is there, and now we have to live under these conditions. Like I said, it's demanding, you can manage it too, but you have to do a lot more than you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u136	Madam President! Of course, it is easy to criticise the decisions taken in due course. They have been made in that time and knowledge, and they say we have to live. But that certainly does not prevent us from taking a little look at this current situation. If we are thinking of a banking union and centralised supervision, we should not create for ourselves the impression that we are safe, for there is a clear risk that supervisors and supervisors will form a similar image. Those mistakes are very difficult to see: after all, when there are many of these organisations, it may take a long time to find out that everything is not quite right. And now, in a positive tone, it is mentioned that bank owners and investors, i.e. creditors, are primarily held responsible, that principle is quite correct. However, given that the countries and these large banking systems and the large banks are increasingly intertwined — and these volumes are so high in these amounts and cash flows, especially when the crisis comes — this resolution fund, which will begin to be collected from the beginning of next year and which will last eight years to collect, will probably not suffice. That is the main problem here: while this investor responsibility is a priority here, it may happen that once again the famous solidarity is being imposed: if we are going to save the monetary system, then we will have to go back to the taxpayers' pockets in different countries, and the multinational banks will cause many countries to become that solidarity. I believe that we must be aware of the risk. Not so much that it should be critically judged that wrong decisions have been taken, but this must be recognised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u137	Mr President! When Mr Huhtasaari said that I could sleep at night in peace, I have to say that next night will be quite restless because... — Well, it seems that Mr Huhtasaari has left, as have the other Finns. At last, there has been such a Greek debate, in which no one in Finland wants to be involved anymore. When Mr Huhtasaari said that responsibilities do not increase, what does that mean? I believe that this means that the theoretical maximum amount of money that can be provided under the European Stability Facility will not be increased, but that the present money can therefore be increased, and then these responsibilities will not increase. It seems that, or at least there will be the fear that it will mean that we can cut these amounts of ours so that not all the money will come back from there. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I did not hear a reply from Mr Ala-Nissilä or Mr Zyskowicz, whom I very much appreciate, on this question of debt relief. It would now be possible to tell Parliament and the Finnish people whether you accept the Greek debt reduction and the fact that Finland will lose money in this debt arrangement. We need an answer to this question. This is not clear from the article in the government program that responsibilities do not increase, because that does not mean anything at all. If this interpretation were really this, that you are preparing to accept the debt cut, then we will all be able to see that this is a pretty bad government for any of Finland's claims. After all, the Finnish government has considerable debts both in relation to companies, loans granted, and in relation to households. Are you going to be as silly for everyone as to accept these debt cuts by saying that responsibilities do not increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u138	Madam President! I am just as confused about this situation as the previous speaker. Indeed, there are no Finns here, and some of the people who were present walked out of the hall now that there was a chance to discuss this, and I do not see Secretary of State Timo Soini here now telling us the line of the Finns who are based on this situation in Greece at the moment. But the situation is serious, and that is why these questions, which we have now asked, are very important, and we do expect the government parties to provide us with an answer to these very fundamental questions raised above by Mr Heinäluoma: are you in government or in another form to accept the possibility of debt cuts in the next few days? This is an important question and one that needs to be answered once and for all. To Mr Huhtasaari, who is no longer here in the Chamber, I would say, however, that we can now at the latest put an end to these puns when the situation is so serious. Finland has a EUR 1 billion bank account, thanks to the Minister of Finance Jutta Urplainen, to secure Finnish taxpayers' claims. I'm glad it is. I do not understand whether the basic Finns, using these puns, are going to make the billion that the Social Democrats fought for the Finnish taxpayer invisible. I find it incredible that this same record is still being run, that Finland is supposed to have no guarantees. Finland has guarantees, and it is now very important that the Finns of Finland do not ruin this situation and act in such a way that these guarantees will no longer matter in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u139	Madam President! To Mr Huhtasaari, I would first like to point out that Greece's drift outside the euro or its departure from or departure from the euro is not a patent solution, contrary to what he said. Does Mr Huhtasaari or other Finns believe that our billions would then be safer if Greece remained outside the euro? I suppose we can be quite sure that if we did, it would be much more uncertain and, if possible, even longer. As far as Mr Heinäluoma's speech is concerned, I think that the starting point is quite clear. Greece, like other countries, is responsible for its own debts. And the reason why Finland, for example, has been borrowing Greece has been that we have seen that if this had not been done, first and foremost then in 2010, with the first Greek package, the Greek problem would have spread very violently across the euro area and thereby damaged the economy of the euro area as a whole and very significantly the Finnish economy. So, Mr Heinäluoma, the starting point is quite clear: Greece must pay its own debts and Greece must also carry out the reforms it is committed to. The negotiating situation is, of course, that Greece in these negotiations, as part of the negotiations, has brought to the table a reduction in its own debt or even a promise of it, and that is how it is, I understand, at the negotiating table, but the starting point for Finland is quite clear: let each country itself answer its own debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u140	Mr President! The situation has not changed much since we lived in the time of the socialist finance minister: what these Greek claims were worth at the time and what it is today. If we were to have a question about the company’s accounting — it says that the claims are to be entered at most in the likely value — then what should these claims in Greece have been recorded a few months ago and where should they have been recorded today? There has been quite a lot of bad pants in this area for a long time now, which is not, as Mr Zyskowicz said, any more pompous pomps for all Greek claims, if realistically considered. It would be absolutely necessary for Greece to return to the path of these reforms, to get its administration in order, but we are still in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u141	Mr President! Of course, this debate on Greece is also essential for the future functioning of the ECB system and also for the risks that the ECB system poses in relation to Greece and indeed also in relation to certain other euro area countries. Now attention is drawn to the fact that the Finns of Peru do not answer this question and leave the scene further so that there is no need to discuss it. This is an historic opportunity that the Greek debate is not good enough, although it has been brought into every single debate since 2010, whether or not it was part of it. It genuinely raises concerns as to why people do not want to talk, and the impression is that they do not want to talk because the line is changing. The spike is not about to be closed, and it's not closed, it's about to be opened on its back. I mean, it doesn't look so good. I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for his clear answer, or for his reasonably clear answer, when he said that the Greeks themselves must bear their debts. This is a very important principle, not only in the context of dealing with this crisis, but also as a follow-up principle. We have to see that, if we now accept that the European Union will have access to it in whatever form it may be, or that the Member States will have access to Greek debts, then there will be other customers at the door, because Greece is not the only country that has been helped in this crisis, but there will be other countries: Portugal, Ireland, for example, Spain, in an unlimited form. And then there comes this old question, which we have been talking about many times since the financial crisis in 2008, this moral hazard problem, the problem of moral hazard, that if those who have handled their affairs badly are rewarded with taxpayers' money, then of course there is a great risk that it is worth doing badly because someone else is coming and paying. And that is why what is now being decided in Greece is not just about Greece now, but about all the debtor countries and the future development of this whole euro area. If the parliaments do not take their line here and represent a healthy economic line, then I will ask who will then represent it. Indeed, governments tend to take care of things, especially if they can do it half-heartedly, in a way that everyone has good things to do, and then let us be fools about opening this wallet. The liability that Mr Zyskowicz referred to through the ECB system is estimated at more than EUR 2 billion for Greece. I'm sure there's other numbers you can put on. It is therefore one part of these Finland’s overall responsibilities in Greece. Then we have this one-on-one loan, which was given in the spring of 2010, and in addition to this, we have this one that left the EFSF. And of these, we are in a situation where it has traditionally been thought that central bank financing should be such as to be paid back in all circumstances, and I believe that the ECB does want to insist that credit from the ECB is not forgiven. Indeed, if it were to be forgiven, you might then ask how the ECB will be able to deal with such crises and manage the marginal lending facility for banks in difficulty in countries in difficulty. In other words, I believe and hope that the ECB will be as firm as possible on this issue, and I dare hope that the members of the Bank of Finland's banking council will represent this firm line, that there must be certainty that the ECB's lending will be properly repaid. And then to this one-on-one loan: there is no protection for it, it is risk finance if this is transferred to this debt solidarity and debt forgiveness is done. But then we have this EFSF credit, which Finland has guaranteed and in which we have invested capital, which has then been applied for on the market. That is where we have a guarantee facility — in the form of a return and exchange agreement, but a guarantee arrangement — of around EUR 1 billion, which will safeguard our claims. This is what the current Prime Minister, while in opposition, said in a highly valued, manly way to me, said that they are guarantees and that they will safeguard Finland's claims if Greece is insolvent. But here too, the situation is that if the Finnish government approves the debt arrangement and accepts that loans are being cut off, then, of course, these guarantees are of no use. If we accept that Greece will be forgiven for these loans, then we will no longer be able to say that for a moment, we had guarantees, because they are only valid under the circumstances that our position will not be asked for this insolvency. So we are talking about quite a lot of things if we talk — as it now seems — about extra billions of dollars when we have a guarantee arrangement in relation to the risks that this matter in Greece can end up in an unfortunate way. If, under these circumstances, the government reverses Finland's multi-year line and adopts a solidarity and debt regime, we will be faced with quite big issues, and the consequences of this will then be borne by taxpayers for a long time and, at best, will lead to reckless economic activity in the euro area in the future. So there is a need to find out about this. I welcome Mr Zyskowicz's reply, and I would also like to hope that Mr Ala-Nissila will encourage himself to say that he too is of the opinion that Greece should take care of its own debts and that we will not accept any debt forgiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u142	Mr President! I hope that quite a few others will agree that, in principle, everyone will try to take care of their own affairs, but when this debate on Greece has been going on for years and has had different stages, it is perhaps worth mentioning, however, that different views have also been expressed among the Socialist Group. Let me quote here: 'It makes sense to seek the right level of protection for Greeks through the forgiveness of loans and to apply for a programme to help Greek society improve its own economic growth and employment. It may be the best way to achieve the best result." This is an interview with Yle on 27 February 2014, and this interview was given by Antti Rinne, who therefore held this opinion before becoming Minister of Finance. Maybe this just describes the difficulty of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u143	Mr President! I dare hope that Mr Satonen cannot agree with that quote.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u146	Madam President! Let us also say to this in a fair and honest manner in the Minutes of Parliament's plenary session that it is the case that the Social Democrats are in fact the only party whose line has remained the same all along. At that time in 2010, we opposed these arrangements because Finland did not receive collateral and the investor liability did not materialise. After that, we came to the government's responsibility and handled it in such a way that we got the guarantees and the investor's responsibility came true, and the whole Finnish line changed uniformly. And now, again in the next term of government, this time with the opposition, we are still exactly in agreement. Now we are concerned, as we have heard before, whether the government parties are still in this tight line or whether there is a really big leap in the process of changing the Finnish line, which is a very serious matter and a truly extremely unhappy situation for the Finnish taxpayer. It is good that Ben Zyskowicz has made his point here. I hope that Mr Satone will also confirm, as requested, his agreement and the position of Mr Ala-Nissila in the centre. You could, in fact, send a text message or some e-mail now to the Finns, your government partners, so that they can also come here and give their opinion on this matter, because I am likewise a little sceptical: if there is talk of Greece and the Finns are not here, but actually left the hall at that very moment, it is already so historic that I hope there are no signs in the air.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u147	Mr President! However, it should be noted from this guarantee scheme that this was the common line of the entire government, the government of the previous parliamentary term, that guarantees were sought. And I understood that when they were applied for, there was plenty of support for it from the parliament. And that is what many times in the past was called for, including in May 2010, when this bilateral loan from Greece, the first aid package, was discussed. But this is now reduced to the question of whether the Finnish line will really change in the big issue of the mega-group of economic policy so that Finland goes towards debt solidarity — something almost all speakers have so far opposed in various ways in the public debate and have seen its truly disastrous impact on the future economic performance of the euro area — and whether this will be implemented as a reduction in public debt. Otherwise, it should be said that this has no acute impact on the economic situation in Greece, since, in relation to both bilateral and Stability Mechanism credits, there are no payment schedules in place, that there is an acute crisis, but that this payment period has been extended, so it is a matter of principle, not a matter of direct impact on the economic situation in Greece. And I agree with the view that the Greeks must work hard to get their own finances on a sound footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u148	Mr President! We are not in favour of solidarity, I am not in favour of solidarity, but let me say that the essential thing is to be able to live under the conditions of the single currency. We Finns do not know how at the moment. We have allowed costs to run away, we have lost competitiveness, the industrial base has collapsed. We are exhausted, and that is not how we can continue in Finland. Indeed, this government programme comes at the very last stage and the social pact is needed to enable Finland to live under conditions which require a common currency. The Greeks cannot live at all at the moment, this modern government, and that is a big problem. I watched the very last news, so we stretch and stock up and there are no solutions. We have a major problem with it in the euro area, and it should be very strict that the consequences are no longer increasing. But the fact that Greece has been introduced into the euro already makes this situation difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u149	Mr President! I agree with Mr Ala-Nissilä that we too have a lot of learning to do here, and there is a lot of work to do in order to be able to cope, and also in terms of taking care of our own competitiveness. Then, however, it is worth saying that we have two industrial changes at hand at the same time, which are the main explaining factor for our difficulties. The second is this change in the Nokia sector and that: Nokia did not invest in a smartphone in time or see what the creation of an iPad means in relation to the consumer and also in changing business thinking. The same phenomenon also affects the forest industry, which for too long built this newspaper paper on constant growth and then made wrong strategic decisions and even sold its pulp production at the end. Among other things, Kemijärvi’s pulp mill was closed under conditions, since it was later established that the pulp business was actually a profitable business and it would have been worth keeping. But then, in relation to this current situation, I think it is quite clear that if Finland is wasting billions of euros on this Greek debt arrangement, it will not do anything to help us to cope with our domestic situation when we know what situation we are in when we build the budget. This kind of billions of euros spent on the debt arrangement is then directly visible in the balance sheet of the Finnish state and in our own operating opportunities that are important to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u150	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u151	Madam President! The operating environment of the public radio is changing rapidly. Digitalisation of information and all kinds of information opens up new tools for the processing and distribution of information, which are made possible by the ever-changing IC technology. The change is seen not only as a great opportunity but also as a particularly great challenge on the commercial media side. Traditional print media loses their positions. Industry operators have frantically considered ways to obtain customer and advertising revenue from their online publications. At the same time, when the situation in the advertising market as a result of the economic downturn is low, the consequences have been seen in large-scale redundancies in commercial companies, both on the print side and on the electronic side. In the battle for the survival of electronic media, the arrival of international entertainment giants is also available to Finnish consumers. From the point of view of Finnish culture and Finnish journalism, the trend does not look bright. Time will tell whether online publications will succeed in finding a combination of paid content and advertising that maintains the special position of domestic culture and journalism under the pressure of overshadowing international supply. The Board of Directors believes that Finns need a diverse and pluralistic commercial media, along with Yle. A diverse media field is the best guarantee of freedom of expression. In this difficult setting of commercial media, the importance of YLE is emphasised. With its stable funding, Yle will be able to invest in content without any consideration of economic profitability. Yle has a special position in the Finnish media field. It does not compete with subscribers and must not seek income from the advertising market. The Management Board's view is that the absence of competition must not mean that YLE does not reform or develop its activities at all. In Yle, 2014 was a strong year of development and changes in operations. The media use of the public is changing at an accelerated rate. Yle aims to respond to this by strengthening its network expertise in content, services and distribution. The role of Yle Arena has still been strengthened as a distribution channel for content. The audience will find content in the arena when they want and be able to track it from different terminal devices. Traditional broadcast TV and radio are still the main distribution route for Yle's content, but the fastest growth is on the Internet. The focus of the strategy on the development of online distribution was reflected in a wide range of negotiations in Yle during the reporting year. Almost one third of the personnel, more than 1,000 persons, were involved in the Yt negotiations. The activities were reorganised and many tasks changed. On the technology side, there were also redundancies when it was necessary to improve the efficiency of operations. In the end, the number of redundancies was lower than initially estimated. Regular employment relationships had to be terminated instead of 67 of the 180 feared. This was in line with the Governing Board's wish that the change should carefully examine the possibilities for retraining staff. Yle's increased presence on the Internet will implement the company's strategic goal of serving all Finns. Although Yle does not have to look for large audiences because of its economy, the legitimacy of the Yle tax is required, the justification that every payer of the Yle tax can find something relevant to himself in Yle's supply and distribution channels used by Yle. The development of Yle is important with public feedback. New technologies will make it easier for the public to participate in and develop programmes. Yle's mandate online is based on the law of a broadcasting company that defines the role of Yle. Article 7 of the Act states: "The purpose of the company is to provide a versatile and comprehensive public service television and radio software with related ancillary and additional services to everyone on equal terms. These and other public service content services can be provided on public communications networks at national and regional level." Mr President! A survey of the Finnish relationship with Yle revealed that 87 per cent of Finns rely very much or quite much on YLE. The majority believe that YLE has performed its public service tasks well or very well. More and more people feel that Yle is important to society and that it is also important in the use of the media. The reporting year included major sporting events. The Winter Olympic Games and the World Cup put a strain on the company's finances so that last year's profit is close to EUR 5 million loss-making. In line with the agreed economic guidelines, the economy is rebalanced in years when major sporting events with high performance rights are not included in the software. As part of the public service mission, new openings have been on the side of social content projects. These include the Hoivakoti health programme series, which has focused on care for the elderly, and the problem of the archipelago, which has been dealt with by Fixa Skärgården. The way in which the programmes are drawn up has made it possible for the public to participate more strongly in the implementation of the programmes. An important investment in social production was the election gallery of European candidates in spring 2014, where each candidate was interviewed for online distribution. The same concept was successfully applied in the last spring parliamentary elections. The project can be considered important for democracy and equality: each candidate received four minutes free of charge on the main media website. During the reporting year, the public radio has implemented the strategy adopted by the Management Board. The company has increased its investments in services for minority languages and special groups. The Sámi programme offering has been increased: programmes are now being sent in all the Sámi languages. The subtitling of television programmes has increased and thus strengthened the implementation of the fundamental rights of the deaf language group. In line with its strategy, Yle has increased its purchases from independent domestic production companies. Through its procurements, Yle fulfils its role as a supporter of Finnish culture. Yle has an important role to play as a buyer of productions in the film, drama and culture area. The Management Board has seen this as an important means of strengthening domestic culture, which is hard to compete with international entertainment made with big money. Mr President! One of the most important annual decisions of the Board of Directors is the election of the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. We have tried to have one or two members of the Board of Directors change each year. This will ensure both renewal and continuity. At the end of the reporting period, the term of Chairman of the Board, Kari Neilimo, was over six years. According to the Board of Directors, Neilimo’s earnings in the development of Yle’s administration, organisation and management are significant. The new Chairman of the Board was elected Chancellor Thomas Wilhelmsson of the University of Helsinki. Mr President! The Management Board shall submit its report to Parliament for evaluation. The report is accompanied by the opinion of the Sámi Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u152	Madam President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Management Board for an excellent presentation. In the case of YLE, however, the most important thing is these public service tasks. The public has a lot of good content, is online, is on the radio, is on television, but I think that regional coverage and the various special groups, including language groups, are the most important ones. Yle's online services can in particular be praised, especially Yle Areena, as has already been mentioned in the presentation. Mr President! In the presentation of the Annual Report, there was a bit of the issue of corporate tax, and I have received a lot of feedback about the fact that companies are already finding it rather difficult for them to apply this bureaucratic approach. Many accountants and many auditors also criticise, and there is little doubt about how it should be recorded there. We must now think about the introduction of such a break-up of bureaucracy across the party borders, how this VAT could be adjusted in the case of these companies and communities. Mr President! I also welcome the fact that commercial media have also been taken into account in the Management Board. We still need live regional newspapers, live local newspapers, and we also need to keep the public word, which operates on the basis of the market economy, alive, and I think that this is the defence of all that has come to light, the defence of Finnish journalism. I personally would like and I am sure that every Member of Parliament would like to see more money invested in the quality of the news, in the quality of things, and not in the speed of things, so that there are even typographical errors there sometimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u153	Mr President! On my part, too, I would like to add my voice to the thanks that have been given to Mr Kantola, the chairman of the Board of Directors. The role of YLE is extremely important in our diverse, pluralistic communication, and it is important that the YLE Board performs its own role as Director and also as Supervisor of YLE's activities, and that work has been done by the Governing Board. As the chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Kantola's figures illustrate, the Finnish Broadcasting Company has done very well in this very hard media turmoil. It is a diverse content, it has been able to live also in this new time, it is strongly online present and is present where people need daily information. The programmes have strong audiences, listeners and readers, and the reliability of YLE has also been maintained at a high level. These are all extremely important issues. Then there is a certain amount of concern about the one aspect of the public debate that, when media turmoil is tough and these marginal conditions of the economy are also hard for all actors in the industry, there have been several speeches showing that under the operating conditions of newspapers or commercial television or radio, it would somehow make it easier if the public radio were to be mutilated as much as possible. I find this a very unpleasant way of thinking. The fact that misery is spread in every respect — and through the cutting of resources from all sides, poor journalism is becoming more widespread — cannot be a multi-paralleled communication of the interests of your Finnish society. The role of public service broadcasting as a public service body is very important and at the same time it maintains a positive bar for all operators. It is particularly important that YLE uses these resources to serve all population groups, but also to ensure that the programmes are at a high level and, for example, as regards news and current programmes, that their reliability is maintained at a high level. What is also important is that YLE is handled by the Parliament — the role of the Governing Board is important here — and that YLE is under no circumstances made a channel of communication or a horn of any government. We know from the world that there is often a temptation to governments that if this national radio company could somehow get a stick nose and then get the message from the government in question. It has been a good tradition in Finland that even though the governments change, the management of the affairs of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is here in Parliament. It is on the Governing Board and is on the Parliament's side, and parliamentary groups have played an important role when the legislation has been amended. It is well known that the government has now taken a decision in its Government Programme negotiations to review once again the legislation on the status, functions and apparently the Broadcasting Broadcasting Act. I do not know what needs lie behind this, because this Broadcasting Act is a very recent law and it has been done in very careful preparation. After all, preparations for it began in the previous parliamentary term of 2007, and then Minister Kiuru put it in the finish line during the government term that began in 2011. If there are needs, then they need to be assessed, and it is important that this assessment is carried out in a transparent and democratic manner without any specific prior decisions being made, for example, by the government. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this monitoring system of ours and the decision-making of the YLE are working properly. After all, the problem with radio is not the number of supervisors. There are so many overseers. We have a board of directors, of course we have a government as the body responsible for the operation of the YLE. Then we have the Finnish Communications Agency, then we have the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and then we have the Parliamentary Transport Committee and Parliament. I guess there came to this one more supervisor, such as, was there an agent-based one that was still made, so that there were times when it felt sorry for Yle's leadership, as it revolved around these different bodies to tell what Yle is doing. I do not believe that it would be good for our pluralistic information to be cut off from the wings of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, to be banned from operating in a region, because if this is done then, over time, it will mean that the public will be reduced and that the legitimacy of the company as a whole will be weakened. But when I talk about this good administration, I will take one example in connection with it, which really puzzled me a little. It was a series of programmes subcontracted to Yleisradio in connection with that SuomiAreena a year ago in the summer. It then became apparent that, when the content of this series of programmes was not satisfied, there had become a different complaint to the management of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and that, according to the information provided by the programme's authors, its content and the way in which the programme was implemented, the Government of the Finnish Broadcasting Company had also intervened in this programme. I find it totally inappropriate that people on the board of the Finnish Broadcasting Company should themselves make phone calls to the management of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and make demands on what programmes or in what way they should be doing. If you are on the Board of Directors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, you must ensure that you are not at the same time performing the communications tasks of a company in relation to the Finnish Broadcasting Company. Otherwise, the roles of a member of the board of directors and the company's information roles will go awry. I hope that these corporate governance issues will be taken seriously by the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, which will have a major impact on the fact that the credibility and reliability of the Finnish Broadcasting Company as an independent body can be preserved in every respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u154	Madam President! I was not able to take the floor for a short time because I too feel some kind of love for the public radio. In time, I worked for about ten years on the board of directors and saw the value of the fact that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is the Parliament’s radio. I also wanted to keep this principle firmly on the agenda when I had the pleasure and the honour of doing about a year's work as Minister of Communications, when I did give thanks to both my predecessor and my successor, Mrs Kiuru, in both cases, that she worked hard for this new Broadcasting Act. So I agree with the same assessment that there is certainly no such great need for legislative reform in this time frame, but if the government has now decided to set up such a working group — and precisely if Yle is to make decisions, it must always be done parliamentaryly — then hopefully it will now find great wisdom in the various parties that see its importance and value as a guarantor of such pluralistic information and also as a forwarder of all our fundamental values. Yle has many good tasks, important tasks in society, and that is why we must be clear in our minds that it is in the interests of the whole of society that we have a reasonably strong public service broadcaster here in Finland. All in all, I also want to underline and emphasise — and it can never be overemphasized — that it must always be remembered that the YLE must not be the handcuff of any sitting government. And that is precisely the principle behind this when, in due course, we decided on these new forms of funding. It would be disastrous if the YLE were dependent on the color or politics of every government. Certainly information must be independent, and these principles must, of course, continue to be respected in all respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u155	Mr President! I think it is very important that during this term of government, the Minister of Transport and Communications Anne Berner explores the possibilities of supporting the private media to survive this struggle that has emerged here and this media transformation that is taking place. My message to the Governing Board was also clarified: Keep Yle's regional operations up. Yle's regional radios are very important in those provinces, including our own Yle Ostrobothnia.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u156	Mr President! Indeed, the fact that we have a strong YLE does not contrast with the fact that other media do not have good conditions and opportunities. Indeed, for the media as a whole, this has been a very challenging time with changes in social environments. In time, when I was in the position of Minister of Communication, such an extensive report was produced on the future of the press, which has a lot of black clouds, threats, many times people are also involved in the negotiations there, and there has been bad news in this area. I decided then that something should be done about it, and I invited the liquidator, Thomas Harpf, to explain what could be done about it, so that the future of the press has been secured. The liquidator produced more than one presentation, and we were able to struggle in a tough struggle since last government term with 30 million more innovation support for the Finnish press in order to survive this period of transformation. This report by the liquidator is also very good and interesting to read to the future government, and I hope that the forthcoming government will also pay very strong attention to this whole media transition and the possibilities for action from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u157	Mr President! Indeed, a strong YLE, a functional YLE, and in addition to commercial media, well-managed commercial media, do not conflict with each other, we need both. In this regard, Mr Viitanen referred to this important work by Mr Harpf and his proposals. Of these, this innovation support came into force and is of great importance. After all, it was based on past Danish experience, which is precisely what gives us the chance to cope with this major change. In addition to that, there are a number of elements which remain to be implemented, the most important of which is this drop in VAT on digital instruments. This should be achieved quickly, and I dare to hope that the government will take this issue forward for its part, and I believe that the whole of Parliament can support this. It would make it easier for us to cope with this electronic transformation and then have a versatile communications field through the printed word, radio, television and this evolving digital network.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u158	Mr President! One last point has to be made about this relationship between commercial media and the YLE. Indeed, in public debate such a confrontation or a spirit of competition has been little tuned up and wanted to see the financial position and function of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, a strong position in legislation, somehow a problem for commercial media. In practice, however, the very central part of Yle's strategy is the building of new partnerships and cooperation with commercial media, such as the development of the radios.fi website, from which one website can be accessed into any radio, YLE or other commercial radios. This type of partnership and cooperation projects are with commercial media, and this will, of course, also provide a basis for the survival of commercial media for its part. But of course the government has some tax solutions and opportunities either to complicate or facilitate the position of commercial media in this changing media field.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u159	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u160	Värderade talman, ärade ledamoter! Det är är ett rutinärende som vi har behandlat i communicationutskottet. Jag vill dock lyfta upp en viktig sak som också betonas i utskottets betankande. Finland är försenat med Ratificeringen av internationalella convention Nairobi Convention on the Removal of Shipwrecks. Nairobikonventtionen bestammer internationale regler för att försäkra oss om snabb och effektiv localisering och bortförande av ett vrak då det är bedömt att vara en risk. Conventionen ger ett starkt ansvar för fartygsägare och inkluderar en obligatorisk försäkringsregim. Conventionen trädde i kraft 14 april tidigare i år. Bland gives Danmark, Tyskland och Storbritannien är bland de 16 länder som hits har raticerat convention, Vilket betyder att våra fartyg med finländsk flagg behöver försäkring om man navigerar i dessa länders vatten.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u161	Mr President! I agree with Mr Löfström's assessment of the importance of this agreement. Here we have an excellent and useful example of good, sensible and necessary regulation. In other words, there is also a need for rules to be followed, and of course this applies particularly to the maritime sector and other transport sectors. But I would just like to point out in this connection that we do play a major role at national level in maintaining our own commercial fleet. It is an important security of supply factor, and of course it also matters that we have Finnish seamen's expertise and that this whole cluster can succeed. It includes not only ships but also shipbuilding, maritime know-how, training and then the full potential of Arctic cooperation. From this point of view, I think it is a great failure that the government, in its own programme, has left behind the idea that, in the event of the collapse of this so-called social pact, the maritime sector would be penalised by a reduction in maritime subsidies. Its impact on the future of our own commercial fleet would be extremely critical. I hope that such gangs will not be made and completely innocent people will not be made to suffer and, furthermore, will cause unnecessary damage to the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-24-ps-24.u162	The seventh item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 June.
