ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 2/2015 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 6 October 2015. A detailed examination of the third draft amending budget is now under way. I would ask for amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u2	Mr Tanus's proposal 3 and Mr Viitanen's proposal 4 deal with the same issue, so we will vote against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u3	The idea was to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u4	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 2/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u6	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy highlights the role of Sitra today. In a very diverse and useful way, Sitra has been proactive in key issues related to the future of Finland. As is said here, Sitra's work is currently focused on three specific themes, entitled "Live human beings and supportive structures", "Resource-wise and carbon-neutral society" and "Sustainable well-being and work patterns". Sitra has been proactive in, for example, testing basic income, which the basic income experiment has now been included in the new government programme. I have said here before about this basic result that it will certainly not be the Great Pumpkin that comes and solves all the problems, such as poverty, the incentive traps, the social security of entrepreneurs and so on. But I myself am in favour of this experiment, as agreed in the Government Programme, and I believe that when you experiment, you will also see the very difficult challenges associated with this basic income thinking. I have to admit, in principle, I'm a bit of a reservation. After all, basic income thinking means that all healthy and workable people are paid home. Personally, I see that it is at least as important to promote inclusive social protection, which requires people who are capable of working but also offers them the opportunity to do meaningful work that is relevant both to themselves and to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u7	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz raised this basic income experiment. It's probably the case that basic income isn't the Great Pumpkin, but it's still worth a try. It has been in Finland for years, if not decades of discussion, whether it is a good idea or a bad idea. Of course, there are many ways to do this: is it to harmonise the lowest levels of social security and basic income there, or is a negative income tax the model, or is another model better? This is what the government is currently working on. And as far as I know, the experiment is still open whether it is a regional experiment or an experiment of a certain age class or what model, it is still in the search. However, I am quite open and positive about the experience of experimenting with the project. However, we have grounds for experimenting, such as the fact that our social security system is very complex, it is not controlled by anyone, and it also contains elements that are not encouraging. There are well - known income traps, and there are situations where accepting short contracts is not profitable. If these can be dismantled with basic income, at least it is worth experimenting with.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u8	Looks like there's a little bit of a debate about wanting to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u9	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz made quite a number of unfounded claims in his brief speech. He said that he does not believe that basic income would correct all the world’s problems, starting with poverty. Well, who ever said that? No one, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u12	Madam President! Congressman Alanko-Kahiluoto said that I made false claims. This is a false claim. I did not say that basic income solves all the problems in the world from poverty onwards, but I said that it has been presented as a solution to Finland's problems, such as poverty, just as it is that work does not always encourage, such as the social security problems of entrepreneurs and so on. But we agree that we should try it and see the good and the bad. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto's argument that it is not possible for a single parent to accept a job because of our current social security system is an interesting one. That means that people can afford to be unemployed and live on social security, but they cannot afford to go to work. This is, of course, a problem in our current social security system if Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, too, is able to recognise that it should be corrected regardless of any basic income experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u13	Madam President! I am concerned about the fact that the government has its own experiment here and now, if that is the case, that is to say, to cut people's social security. We have just had a great deal of concern, demonstrations for pensioners, cuts in the subsidies for the most low-income pensioners, cuts in unemployment benefit, cuts in people's purchasing power through it, cuts in wages by the people. This is now a government experiment of its own, that with less more. The purchasing power of people in this is being tackled quite heavily by the government's current policy here and now, and I am very concerned about that. I remember that Sitra had, and still has, these courses of economic policy management, and, of course, it should pay attention to these very doctrines of sustainable economic policy, that this social and ecological sustainability should also be included in the same context. I do think that attention should be paid to the wisdom of economic policy when, in this situation, people are reduced in their ability to consume and thus put a stop to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u14	Madam President! Like Mrs Zyskowicz, I admit that I am critical of basic income. I see that it is good that there is a basic connection between working, if possible, and what you get. On the other hand, I understand that when the world changes, new ideas must be able to see if they can be used differently in this time than they have been in the past. That is why I think that this experiment, which the government is proposing, is quite justified — despite my own criticism. On the other hand, it must be noted that there are, of course, very different basic income models. I would say to those who strongly support basic income that it would also be worth thinking a little about marketing, so to speak, how to present the model. It reminds me of the campaign for the Left Youths, which I think is "The Masses for Masses", which said it would be nice to get a ton in hand a month so you could live in a bigger apartment. I think that's kind of a strange idea. If you want a bigger apartment, you work more or go to work if possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u15	Madam President! I am very interested in these so-called duubies, and I think it is all right to ask questions. Old wisdom says you don't get lost in the way. And the representatives of Zyskowicz and Elo can say that the central idea of the foundation can be summed up in up to 15 seconds: The same money that's going around now — it's just going to be used smarter. The current minimum level of social security will be replaced by a single sum and the poverty traps, the incentive traps, will be eliminated. And with regard to the concern that money is being given, that people are loitering at home, as Mr Kahiluoto pointed out, the situation today is that money is being given there home, because there is really no way to get away with the job because the traps are so big.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u16	Mr President! The basic income must be based on its own strengths, but also on its disadvantages. The strong point is that we have an infinitely bureaucratic social security system which has been trying for years to improve even more smoothly, but with some failure. But as far as basic income is concerned, there is always the risk that it should not come like dinner to him, but that every hour of work should be profitable, and in that respect I support Mr Zyskowicz's idea that an inclusive element should be included in this situation. What worries me is that the purchasing power of EUR 100 in such a system is very different in Helsinki than if compared to Inari. In fact, EUR 100 is worth something quite different, you can say, the cost of living. It has more purchasing power in Inari. How can our system best take into account the differences in purchasing power in different regions of the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u17	Mr President! I share this amazement, too, in that, at the moment, when we are in a desperate shortage of money and the government is already presenting for approval in next year's budget, and after that, considerable cuts in social security are being made in the area which is the most necessary for people, the type of protection in the event of unemployment, unemployment security, they also concern the livelihood of pensioners, housing allowance, and the general housing allowance — and the list could continue: there will be a minus check on national pensions next year — so where should this enthusiasm now begin to say that, yes, let us talk about this basic income, as if it were to solve these problems that we have here and now? I suspect that there will be no more money, by whatever name, we will cross this social security system that is available. However, I am of the opinion that if you try it, Sitra would be a good experimenter. Indeed, it has an excellent amount of resources to carry out such an experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u18	Mr President! This debate now went only to basic income. Sitra does a lot of good work and, for example, the most recent studies have examined whether the transition from institutional care to home care has provided the savings that have been sought. But when we talk about basic income, I think it is a good thing that this report is being carried out, and it is certainly worth simplifying the system, and as a second alternative, then Minister Risiko's inclusive social security before that is being discussed. And we have also just been informed that the STM will find out whether the integration aid for immigrants could also be made highly funded. So this is certainly the more correct way that money has a parallel to what is being done about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u19	Mr President! Finnish social security really needs a renovation, it needs a red tape renovation, and it needs standard dismantling. But when we talk about basic income, we talk about very different things. What Mr Lepomäki has put forward, for example, is quite different from what the Greens have proposed or what the Left Alliance has proposed. But all the same, I think that we should combine the different levels of social security, because too often people have to speculate, as it were, on the status of social security in order to be able to operate in this jungle. Nevertheless, we will always need a need-tested share because people’s needs and situations in their lives are different, such as a disabled person or a young person who has graduated from school. We need this reason-based side. But as far as these resources are concerned, sometimes I would like some of Sitra's resources to be used in the ministries for development too, because it is becoming quite outrageous that we are even buying the law as a consulting job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u20	Mr President! Now I have to say, I'm feeling a little weird. This basic income is condemned from both the left and the right, and the grounds are both totally unsustainable. When Mr Viitanen said that it is better to receive basic daily allowance than to receive basic income, there is no such thing. It's not better for people, it's better for people to get that ton of money in their hands. If Mrs Zyskowicz says this again, it is strange that it is more profitable to be at home in this country than to go to work, that this is a strange thing: it is. You've been in the government for God knows how long and you're still in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u23	Mr President! In my own speech, I was concerned about the government's experiment here and now, which means, to put it in English, that the government is currently setting out decisions in which it will cut social security for pensioners, for the unemployed, for all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u26	Madam President! Work must always be worthwhile — it is the old principle of the coalition, and I myself have considered this principle to be very central for a long time, and Mr Tolppanen is right that it has not been easy to make this reality in our complex social security system. There has been an incentive trap working group already under Lipponen's governments and so on. Progress has been made, but there is still a problem. I merely drew attention to the way the chairman of the Green Group said that people can afford social security in certain situations, but they cannot afford to go to work. Is basic income the answer? If the basic income could solve this incentive problem, it would undoubtedly be one of its positive aspects. I am not yet convinced of that, but, as I said, it is appropriate to try it. This inclusive social security, the requirement and also the provision of meaningful contributions in return for social security, is very important, for example, for those who enter the new labour market, such as young people and immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u27	Madam President! Indeed, the Greens have put forward a basic income model that would replace all the current minimum benefits, such as basic unemployment benefits and parental allowances, unemployment benefit and so on. So the situation today is that if you receive unemployment benefit, you may find yourself in a situation where a casual short job, a few hours of work, is not worth accepting because it can, as it were, drop a person and his family out of social benefits. And it is, of course, a dangerous situation, for example, in a case where there is a single parent of three children who must take responsibility for being able to buy porridge for the table next week. And we Greens think that it is always better for people to be able to earn it on social security, as much as they can, and it is possible to work. This current system does not allow it. I wish that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u28	Mr President! I see that there seems to be one common point in this world of coalition and social democrats, and that is that work must always be profitable,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u35	Mr President! That is precisely how it should be, but unfortunately it is not at the moment. And I do not think that we were meant to be guilty either, but that these problems are precisely linked to our present system and to the incentive traps it contains. Personally, I am in favour of testing and testing the basic income and seeing if it could be the way, the opportunity with which we will correct this problem. Of course, it must be the case that it really also encourages the short-term acceptance of work, as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u36	Mr President! The problem with this current system is precisely that it is not worth taking up work if the work is in a piecemeal state, there is very little, because then this social security system will be cut and the financial situation of a person will then be reduced by the fact that he is not working at all, in relation to the fact that he will accept this work. Yes, the current system is a passive system and also enables it to be at home without working. That is, in fact, the purpose of social security that a person who does not have a job can survive in this country. And the fundamental problem, however, is that there is not enough work in Finland, which means that we should forget about the guilt of the unemployed. But social security must change when working life has changed and society has changed. The basic income would be a good solution, but I am a little concerned about what the current government understands with basic income and what kind of experiment it will initiate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u37	Mr President! Surely we all agree in this Chamber and elsewhere that working should always be worthwhile. That must be the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u40	Mr President! Sitra's findings should be addressed, as they are one of the few entities in this country that represent creative thinking in the organisation of services. In particular, this model of sustainable well-being and work deserves attention. This basic income is an image of which there is free money in the distribution, and somehow this should be changed. I welcome this basic income experiment, but not as a free experiment. Here our youngest daughter when she got married some year ago, she and her new spouse when they heard that this kind of basic income is coming, so said: "What, for goodness sakes, can we, Ville, in one 1500 euros a month? We'll never do anything again." I think that this image that they had told us about the problem with this basic income debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u41	Madam President! Today, it is perfectly possible for two young people 18 years of age to raise 1500 euros a month and much more to do nothing. We have an unemployment benefit of just over 700 euros a month. You will receive housing allowance on top of it, and if housing allowance is not enough, you will receive income support. But the problem with the current system is that these social benefits are, as it were, a runaway, from which it is very difficult for the unemployed poor to work out. So, in this model of our Greens, people would get the same level of social security as they do today, but all work would always be profitable and permissible. That's the key difference. In other words, the poor in the basic income system would have the opportunity to improve their own life situation, get out of that poverty crisis, and, for example, it would be possible for an adult unemployed person to be trained. It was just today that news was received that the government is about to abolish adult education or at least turn it into a loan-oriented one.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-09-ps-48.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
