ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u1	The 3rd issue of the daily order is the election of the Director-General of the National Audit Office. The Executive Director shall be elected for a period of six years from 1 January 2016 The representatives have been allocated an extract from the minutes of the Audit Committee, which includes the names of the persons who have applied for the office of Director-General and the assessment of the applicants by the Audit Committee. The applications for office have been visible at the central office of the Legislative Director's office. The election will take place like the election of the President. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony I would ask the following representatives: Olavi Ala-Nissilä, Outi Mäkelä, Ritva Elomaa and Antti Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u2	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u3	After voting Maitrise Culture et Communication, Master in Politics and Administration, Master in Public Administration M.P.A. Tytti Yli-Vikari has therefore received all the votes cast, he has been elected to the post of Director General of the National Audit Office for the term of office starting on 1 January 2016 and ending on 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2015 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u5	Mr President! Since 2009, public finances have been clearly in deficit and last year the deficit exceeded the 3% reference value. Of the subsectors of public finances, only employment pension institutions are in surplus. At the same time, GDP contracted for the third year in a row. Weak economic growth has increased unemployment, and the number of long-term unemployed and structural unemployed in particular has increased rapidly. At the same time, the ageing of the population will increase public expenditure, which is also reflected in the growth potential of the economy. The international economy also contains threats such as the weakened growth of the Chinese economy and geopolitical tensions in Russia and the Middle East, but also the strong growth of refugees is reflected in the economies of both Finland and many other countries. On the other hand, the committee draws attention to the fact that recent positive signals have also been received from Finland's economy. For example, the order book of the shipbuilding industry has increased and the order book of the industry has increased. The committee's expert consultation has shown that Finnish industry and national economy have even more growth potential than the report estimates. However, positive changes are limited. The Government of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä aims to raise the Finnish economy to a career of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure funding for public services and social security. The debt-to-GDP ratio is to be broken by the end of the parliamentary term and no further debt will be taken after 21. The Government’s objective is to strengthen public finances on a net basis by around EUR 4 billion at the 2019 level, and the sustainability gap is estimated to fall to around 3.5%. At the same time, the Government will launch a change programme to achieve the strategic objectives of the Government term. Funding of EUR 1 billion will be allocated to these so-called key projects over the next three years, and EUR 600 million will be allocated to the maintenance of transport routes, which will also be spread over three years. The expert consultation has supported the government’s fiscal policies and considered them to be in the right direction. On the other hand, they have also been criticised because decisions on savings and cuts have been considered to further undermine economic opportunities. The Committee believes that, in order to balance public finances, it is justified to make short-term cuts in expenditure and in the medium term structural reforms that will increase public sector productivity and slow down expenditure growth. The committee also considers it justified that the economic adjustment measures should be implemented in the first place, as there is no significant economic growth in sight. The Committee also stresses in particular that the dependency ratio in Finland is deteriorating exceptionally strongly as a result of the ageing of the population and increases the pressure on public finances. Moreover, the potential for a revitalising fiscal policy is rather limited due to EU legislation. According to the EU Treaty, the general government deficit as a percentage of GDP must not exceed the 3% reference value and the government debt should not exceed the 60% threshold. In order to safeguard economic growth, the Committee considers it important to target cuts and austerity measures so that they do not over-depress economic growth and economic activity, but contribute to supporting and promoting it and create stronger confidence in the recovery of the economy. Budgetary cuts may slow short-term economic growth. However, the real objective is to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances and to move forward with structural reforms that generate permanent cost savings. The Committee also feels that it would be useful to assess alternative developments and their impact on public finances. It would add value to the economic policy debate. The economy and economic policy must therefore be discussed in greater depth. This is a good opportunity for the start of the non-Governmental Economic Policy Evaluation Council last year and for the establishment of an economic accounting unit in connection with Parliament during the last parliamentary term. Mr President! It is estimated that around 30,000 to 35,000 asylum seekers will arrive in Finland this year, and the number is expected to remain high until, hopefully, common European solutions can be found. The committee therefore considers it justified for the government to examine at EU level whether the costs of immigration could be taken into account in country-specific deficit reviews on the basis of the existing economic policy provisions. The cost of waiting for one asylum at the reception centre is EUR 15000 per year. If your stay in the reception area is extended to 30,000 applicants a year, this means an annual cost of EUR 450 million. The Committee therefore stresses that in order to curb cost growth and also from a human point of view, asylum decision-making must be of high quality and smooth. Mr President! The committee supports the government's fiscal policy approach, which aims to strengthen growth, entrepreneurship and employment. Finland’s overall tax rate is among the highest in the EU countries, so it is justified that it should not be raised as it would undermine the growth prospects of Finland’s economy. The committee supports the transfer of tax focus from taxation on employment and entrepreneurship, in particular to harmful taxes. In order to improve competitiveness, the Committee stresses the importance of measures to improve the performance of companies in international competition, since poor export performance is a key cause of weak economic development. The committee believes that it is justified to reform the structures of education and research and also to reduce duplication. However, the committee feels that cuts to education and research are threatening to undermine their quality and quality. The committee emphasises the importance of competence: the growth of Finland's well-being and success depends on education, skills and education. It is therefore necessary to ensure that changes do not undermine the quality of education or lead to exclusion in the long term. Mr President! According to the local government balance objective, local government finances should not be in deficit by more than 0,5 % in relation to total output in 2019. In order to achieve this objective, the Government imposes a binding euro-denominated expenditure limit on local government finances to limit the pressure imposed by state measures on the operating costs of municipalities. The Government has decided that the net impact of its measures in 2019 will be at least EUR 540 million lower in total operating expenditure of local government finances compared to the so-called technical budgetary plan decided in spring 2015. Mr President! Parliament has no objections to the report, but Parliament requires the government to take the measures required by the Parliament in five different statements. The committee's report also contains the positions and objections of the opposition parties, which will probably be heard later in this debate. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u6	Mr President! Our country's economy as a whole is in terrible shape. That is why Finland must be put in good shape. We need to get employment up and debt down. We must now make reforms that have not been achieved in this country in recent years. The correction of the fiscal base is supported by all key actors, such as the National Audit Office, the Bank of Finland and, for example, the EU Commission. The public also understands the need for reforms and is prepared to accept even difficult decisions, provided that they are taken in the most fair way possible. The labour market is now exceptionally heavily guarded. Patience would be an asset. Finland cannot afford a political strike, nor must individual industrial battles be allowed to jeopardise negotiations on improving competitiveness and hence employment. Mr President! We will also have to save money, because otherwise the money will simply not be enough. Everyone understands what debt means in their own economy. Sooner or later, there will be a retriever on that road. The Centre considers that decisions on the future of Finland must be held in our own hands in all situations. Outi Ojala, former MP of the Left Alliance, once said that strong state finances are the best protection for the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u9	Mr President! We have a responsible budgetary plan in hand for a long time. That's good. Employment will be supported, public expenditure will be put under control and many reforms will be undertaken. Everything is designed to balance public finances. However, the current immigration policy threatens to nullify the overall cost discipline of central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u12	Mr President! This budgetary plan will be examined in a context where there are very few, if any, easy solutions. We are close to the borders of the EU's fiscal rules and, in some respects, we are already on the wrong side of them. The general government deficit threshold of 3 per cent is just below the threshold next year. Compared to many EU countries, the level of public debt is not yet catastrophic, but the rate of debt is alarming. Finland’s economy is in the most difficult performance in the EU countries with different indicators. Europe’s debt crisis countries have been driven by economic developments similar to those we have witnessed in Finland in recent years: the long-standing current account deficit and the external indebtedness of the economy, which has financed public consumption and low productivity investments. The years to come will see a cautious turn for the better, but in recent years they have become accustomed to disappointment. Billions of deficits have been allowed to accumulate in order to protect the so-called fragile sprouts of growth, but this growth has remained with the father. Since our problems are structural, we cannot rely on the global economy. Mr President! In the budgetary plan, the assessment of the development of tax revenue over the coming four-year period is positive for all tax types. The increase in tax revenues depends on how employment in particular develops. It calls for rigorous implementation of the Government Programme's guidelines and for the reforms to be carried out. Economic growth will not start with a single one-tenth of the size of fiscal policies. It calls for radical reforms in the organisation of public services and in the rules of the labour market. The Assembly's parliamentary group calls for clear responsibility for results in these matters, responsibility for results from the social partners, and if the results do not come soon, then from the government. Clock's ticking. According to simulations by the State Economic Research Centre, government strategy measures will curb wage inflation in the coming years. It has a positive impact on cost competitiveness, which can lead to a recovery in the export sector and an increase in GDP. This possibility will only be realised if all actions are taken at least at the level of ambition agreed upon. It's a rough job, and it's gonna take a steel spine to get through it. In carrying out this four-year project, it will be measured who are able to save Finland. Mr President! Increasing the employment rate is the only way to make the financing of public services sustainable. It calls for a rapid reduction in unit labour costs. It requires a significant increase in local reconciliation. The restrictions on business must be lifted. In spite of opposition from the conservative service and from the interest groups that are looking after their acquired interests, a comprehensive stripping policy must be promoted. For example, the motion to repeal the Business Time Act is a policy-based solution that has long been called for by the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. We need to hold on to the arrangement. The Government Programme's tax policy is one of the cornerstones of the credibility of economic policy. This is also the case with savings. Public expenditure is unsustainable in relation to economic performance. Adjustments must be made in order to allow for a welfare state in the future. A billion has been calculated for the reduction of municipal tasks. Last season it was seen that it was difficult to get proposals for this from the sectoral ministries. There is a need to learn from these experiences and to promote this through clear political leadership.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u15	Mr President! The government's proposal for a budgetary plan gives a good picture of the government's broad economic policy stance. The Government has defined the maximum expenditure for the parliamentary term and adopted a decision on substantial expenditure cuts. The board is less interested in the income side. Regrettably, the government's economic line neglects growth and employment. I quote an important and well-informed economic policy actor: 'It is unfortunate if we try to cover the gap in the funding of welfare expenditure only in public debate with the austerity lists that have been ambushed. In this decade, fiscal policy will become so tense every year that growth will be halted." Every year, it's so tight that the growth stops. That's a lot to say. Does that ring a bell? Yes. This is what the current Finance Minister, Alexander Stubb, said before the parliamentary elections in March 2015 when he was still Prime Minister. A majority of experts also seem to be in favour of this. Hardly has experts ever heard so much criticism of the government's spending limits as they did this autumn. The last group of critics was the IMF. It is not known much about radical left-wing opinions. The IMF criticised the savings in education and warned against cutting the budget for active labour market policies. The same message was sent by experts consulted by the committee. Savings related to universities and education are digging up land for the future’s success. The University of Helsinki is currently negotiating to reduce 1200 people. The same pace is found in the universities of the provinces that are important to us all. Jukka Kola, President of the University of Helsinki, argued yesterday in his statement that Parliament would consider these cuts to universities. Mr President! The real economic, employment and growth measures are shining out of this spending limits line. This is the biggest weakness of this paper. The government's so-called top projects are not enough to reverse the trend of inactivity. These projects have also received a great deal of doubt. Ratingr Standard & Poor’s said in September: “We do not believe that the package will significantly increase growth in the medium term. We believe that the broader reduction in public finances planned by the government will overshadow these initiatives." The sad thing is that the spending limits turn their backs on the world. Halving Finland's development cooperation resources will be visible in our presence in the world. It is clear that in this area we are cutting back on the very resources needed to alleviate and prevent the refugee crisis. Mr President! Savings are needed, but a healthy economy is balanced by growth, a combination of savings and additional income. Today, the Social Democrats have announced an alternative proposal to the government's line aimed at boosting growth and supporting employment, Reforms are needed. We want the amount of EUR 6 billion that is now going into passive unemployment to be converted into active employment support. We want a reform of unemployment security. That is why President Rinne has suggested that unemployment benefit could be used as an employment voucher to help people return to work. We do not believe in cheap work in Finland, but in competence in Finland. Like experts, we want to cancel cuts in universities, research and education. Similarly, we want the unemployed not to be left to their own devices. We want a tax reform that rewards work and shifts tax focus to the undertaxed area in our country: financial markets. We support the start-up of investment in transport, housing and home schools,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u16	Mr President! Government decisions on savings and cuts undermine economic growth and fuel the vicious circle of misery. This was also the opinion of the economic professors heard by the Committee on Finance. The Group of the Greens agrees with this view. There is a common concern about the level of government debt, but the government’s line is only threatening to increase the public deficit and the debt ratio. In addition, the government's cut-off line focuses heavily on low incomes, deepens inequality and thus increases income inequality. Pensioners, students and families with children will pay for the government’s financial escapades. According to a recent OECD report, growth in income differentials has also slowed down economic growth in Finland. Mr President! Like experts, we express serious concern about the harmful effects of cuts in education on human equality and the growth potential of the economy. Matti Pohjola, a professor of economics at Aalto University School of Economics, says aptly in his opinion to the Committee on Finance: "Weak price competitiveness is not the biggest problem in Finland. The collapse of growth competitiveness as a result of a halt in productivity growth is the most serious problem. The underlying assumption of the budgetary plan is that this problem will be resolved on its own, even if investment in education, research and development is cut." So the government is proposing a self - feeding recession and preventing future growth by means of cuts in education. The Greens are proposing a two-term economic balancing programme which focuses on employment and reforms to strengthen the future. This is in the interests of both public finances and ordinary Finns. Mr President! Alexander Stubb, Minister of Finance, has also admitted in this Chamber on 3 November that there is a risk of a negative spiral of government economic policy. On several occasions, Mr Stubb has also rightly admitted that we are facing a crisis of both economic and structural policy. Not only does the Minister of Finance recognise the danger of a negative spiral and also want to carry out structural reforms supported by the Greens, but it would be good for him and the whole government to recognise the famous third point. Fiscal policy, which is exacerbating and exacerbating the economic cycle, undermines future growth. When the conditions for economic growth are withdrawn from the carpet, the productivity benefits of structural reforms are not expected in the future to be sufficient to correct Finland’s economy on a sustainable basis. The human decrease resulting from the increase in long-term unemployment will continue to be paid for a long time. In other words, fiscal policies to support new growth and jobs must create a bridge to the moment when structural reforms are beginning to take effect. On this same point, Professor Sixten Korkman also points out in his opinion to the Committee on Finance: "The aim is inappropriate, because it is very cyclical and is likely to lead to a very pro-cyclical fiscal policy." And it is this pro-cyclical fast policy that leads to another major concern expressed by Mr Korkman: 'Employment rates have fallen and are too low, unemployment rates are high and, in particular, long-term unemployment will soon be on record. In terms of growth and employment, JTS does not appear to contain any significant new provisions." I hope that the government will take Professor Korkman and the Greens' warning seriously. Above all, the objective of balancing the economy is threatened by ever-increasing unemployment. Increased and prolonged unemployment are likely to reduce the growth potential of the economy. Mr President! Finally, I would like to propose that the House approve the motion for objection No 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u17	Mr President! Is it possible that at the same time Finnish companies are competitive and uncompetitive?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u22	Värderade Herr Talman! Det är viktigt att regeringen i sin plan för de offentliga finanserna 2016—2019 utgår från en ärlig och realisticsk lägesbeskrivning. Anpassningsåtgärder på cirka 4 milarder kan beskrivas som ett svettigt project, men svenska riksdagsgruppen delar uppfattningen om att det krävs åtgärder i den storleksklassen för att få den finländska offentliga economisen på fötter. För att få en bättre kurs för economist gäller det att ha vision och förmåga att läja rätt åtgärdsarsenal. Låt mig inleda med att än en gång lyfta fram rannan: vår ekonomi är mest av allt beroende av exporten. Export, hög förädlingsgrad och arbetskraft som lever på ett högt kunnande öjliggör vår framgång. I synnerhet företag som exporterar till växande marknader är livsviktiga för ett litet land som Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u23	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the Government, Prime Minister Sipilä, for the fact that, in my opinion, with a very sensitive ear, you have listened to these echoes in the Chamber and the pension cuts have been abandoned, the cuts in Sunday allowances have been changed and this additional time has been allocated to the social partners in order to find a constructive solution to Finland's rise. The Christian Democrats appreciate this. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament Group shares the government's objectives to halt indebtedness and to restore public finances. At the same time, we want to create hope for better. However, the economic outlook for the coming years is not very encouraging. The challenges facing the international economy are still there and in many places are getting worse. China's economic problems are also reflected in the West, and the root causes of the euro crisis remain unresolved. The Syrian crisis and the resulting refugee crisis are also visible in the economy. We need effective measures to break the negative cycle and create new conditions for growth. In this context, we stress the importance of social justice and the prevention of long-term increases in society's spending on the low-income economy. We want to change the government's proposals on savings that increase social inequality. We would change the emphasis on savings and, in particular, we would correct the weakening of education, research, the management of unemployment and basic security, as well as cuts to low incomes and families. Instead, our savings proposals would focus on dismantling the overlaps between the state administration and rationalising the ict activities. The focus of taxation is on raising harmful taxes in areas that lead public health in a healthier direction and reduce social and health spending. Mr President! At the heart of Christian democracy is the idea of a social market economy. In the government's proposal for a budgetary plan, there are few elements on which to build a sustainable society. The social market economy includes free entrepreneurship, market economy, support for growth, but also the good that emerges from economic activity is fairly distributed, and that is what we want to emphasise. That is why our proposals for change will increase business activity and employment, but we will also take care of all low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u26	I now give the floor to the Minister for Finance, for five minutes, and then, if there is any need, we will start the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u27	Mr President! I would like to raise two points: our situation and our economic policy stance. But before that, if I may, I would like to ask the gym six questions. And if the President will allow me, I would be happy to take the small calls. The first question is: is Finland today a competitive country? The second question is: is Finland currently an attractive export industry? The third question: does Finland have enough growth? The fourth question: are there enough jobs in Finland? The fifth question: is there enough tax revenue in Finland? And the sixth question: is there enough well-being in Finland? I thought I could see that... [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : This kind of interactivity may be good in another situation, but this The Minister's speech must now continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u30	I would now like to ask those Members who would like to have an answer, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u31	Mr President! The great weakness of this government's line is that it does not take up the issues of growth and employment, but it takes up these cuts and stares at them as pains. And here one can only agree with the statement made by the greatest critic in this policy, namely Mr Stubb, before the elections. Now you are freezing this Finnish economy, but also competitiveness, not only this year but next year. I am not in favour of these mandatory laws, but you have also designed them to come into force in 2017. You are not really doing anything here and now in favour of employment, and then this circle will continue to go down and be faced with new cutting clothes. The government should now review its policy and believe what experts in Finland and abroad recommend: invest in growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u32	Mr President! Despite the good questions raised by the Minister of Finance and the interpretation of the answer, this picture is very missing, and so it was during the last parliamentary term, when the Social Democracies were also in the government. Apparently, the four- limb braking functioned then too, and if I don't recall quite correctly, the SDP's election programme did have an adjustment of EUR 3 billion right to the start of the parliamentary term, and there were 1 billion tax increases, possibly even more. Mr President! In fact, in the Finnish economy, these same laws are circulating around the circle. It may be that they are seen a little differently from the government and opposition parties, but, Mr Uotila, the idea stated in your group statement that the government is, as it were, branding and painting a worse image of Finland is not true. We've got 450,000 unemployed, isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u34	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma's statement that the government has done nothing for employment: I am very surprised at this comment, too, from the point of view that there has not been much negotiation here about the fact that there are no major strikes here because the government is trying to create new avenues for job creation. All of us in this Chamber understand that if we do not create more jobs and improve Finland's competitiveness, we will not be able to make this economy better with cuts or other, additional budgets. We need to find a common line on how we can create these new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u37	Representative Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u38	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, both the government's tight and the green's more moderate fiscal policies will lead to an increase in both the budget deficit and debt in the short term. However, unlike the government's line, the green option offers a way out of the negative economic cycle. As far as these key government projects are concerned, the Greens feel that the key projects have a lot of positive effects. However, their importance remains one-off and limited in comparison with the savings decisions taken. According to the Greens' view, the key projects should contribute more to the development of a new and more employment-friendly industrial policy and to the environmental sustainability of the economic system. Mr Stubb, Minister of Finance, let me ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u39	Now it would be Mr. Uotila's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u40	Mr President! Our national competitiveness will only come through productivity gains, and there are two sides to measuring productivity: output and input. The government is always staring at that contribution, unit labour costs, lower wages. It is much more important — and all experts believe that our future is the most important thing — that its output increases in value. We have better quality, more value-added products that we export to the world, and it has a key coherent, long-term education, knowledge and research policy. This is the base where you shoot by cutting from Tekes, universities and other levels of education. This is the darkest view of all, and it will not solve Finland’s debt sustainability in the longer term once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u42	Mr President! Looking at this situation in Finland’s economy in a slightly longer perspective, after the recession that began in 2008, there have been seven to eight billion additional debts taken into account each year. Our government debt has doubled. And now here the message of the opposition is that more should be taken in order to revive, as it were. We have so far revived by about 50 billion already, and this direction has not changed. At the same time, we have lost 100,000 industrial jobs. None of this is reversed except by improving the competitiveness of Finnish work. This is the first time I've really realized it. For the first time, attempts are being made to make solutions that bring the unit labour costs to a competitive level and increase work in Finland and turn the flow of jobs. It's all a and o. Otherwise, this is all just spinning with these readings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u43	Mr President! It was good that Mr Satonen took the floor. First of all, if we take this debt, then when the government here for six months has covered the fact that Finland is now in too much debt, that the debt is going to be paid to the children, I was really surprised when I read the budget book and found that it is there that the government will take more debt next year than this year. The SDP is of the opinion that debt must be brought to an end, and that is why our alternative budget takes more than EUR 300 million less debt than the government did.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u44	Mr President! Indeed, the SDP has published this alternative program, which needs to be looked at. Well, this does seem like cabinet tinkering to me. Here we visit the Suomen Pankki, Sitra and Finnfund for disposable income and so on. Indeed, show me a country in the world that, in this situation, increases debt, increasing public spending. There's no such thing. Greece is an example of the debt recovery, So what we need, Mr President: Finnish production and work must have competitiveness in the world and in Finland. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u45	Mr President! Representative Ala-Nissila continues this fine talk about the dangers of debt and gives the impression that he is, as it were, reducing debt. But, Mr President, this budget proposal of yours for next year is gloomy. It is gloomy because you are by no means reducing borrowing in relation to this year. You imagine that debt is reduced when you always mention the word 'debt' and say that it is dangerous. You will be taking up half a billion more debts next year than the previous government this year — half a billion. And why are you here? It is precisely because you are cutting employment and doing nothing there. On the contrary, you are endangering our future base by cutting out universities and education and putting professors in a kilometre factory. This is your line.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u46	Mr President! Parliamentary debates are often criticised as a theatre. When I listened to Mr. Satose’s speech, it was directly from the stage of the Group Theatre from Parliament III. You, Mr Satonen, have been claiming for years that Finland has revived with tens of billions, but that is not true. We have high unemployment and we have automatic stabilisers, i.e. when unemployment increases, we have to pay unemployment benefits and we receive less tax revenue. And now it is a question of the only sustainable way to stop debt, to boost employment and to boost the economy is to invest in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u47	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, we must now return to this cutting and indebtedness. First of all, you mentioned that we cannot control the debt and take on more debt — and that is true. Was it an additional 5.4 billion next year, and that too is only a preliminary estimate. We do not know how this economy develops. Then, at the same time, you complained about cutting out universities and cutting out education and from here and there. But you will understand that, in this situation, we have to take debt. We do not want this welfare society to crumble, but we will have to take it less in the future than the previous government did, because, during the previous government, our trade balance was negative throughout the government' s term, and now we are trying to make this trade balance positive and we will therefore have to make the structural reforms that you Social Democrats did not achieve during the last term of government. And with regard to Mr Lindtman's EUR 300 million less debt-taking, it does not improve or save the state economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u48	Mr President! I would be happy to have a cup of coffee with Mr Satos and have a little discussion on economics. In particular, we are going through what is meant by revitalization and automatic stabilisers. As Mr Arhinmäki said earlier, it is the costs of unemployment that increase the need for debt, but that is quite different from the additional recovery through debt. They're two different things. I also recommend that Professor Sixten Korkman's statement be heard again: "The aim is inappropriate, because it is very cyclical and is likely to lead to a very pro-cyclical fiscal policy." The government's cut-off line leads to an increase in debt only and only. We need to get that negative spiral cut off so we can get some new growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u49	Mr President! I believe that perhaps the greatest contribution to this debate is that we can say that the Greens are going to miss the left-wing coalition. Looking at the alternative budget, there will be an increase in spending of half a billion dollars and taxes will be raised by 300 million dollars. Of course, we are talking about good education, but we are not allowed to enjoy it, because in practice, by raising the highest income tax rates and adding the third paragraph to capital income taxation in Finland, it is simply not worth it in the future to do more than do the work of high-skilled people — I find extremely worrying. Representative to Heinäluoma: When you invited the IMF to help with the training agenda, all right, then let us also listen to the IMF's lessons on how to make the labour market more flexible,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u52	Värderade Herr Talman! From the point of view of economic growth, it is in the interests of our whole country that our various regions should be developed from their own strengths.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u55	Mr President! With reference to these previous speeches, the single currency has made it possible for us to peel cream off the top. The public sector is in debt. If we do not make these cuts proposed by the government, we will not achieve this 3% target. As a result, Finland will be subjected to guardianship, the Commission's guardianship. It is therefore necessary to adjust at least this scale. It's come to this. For three years we have a negative development, and this development must be made different. This is why we need key projects of this kind that can improve employment and growth. But of course we have neglected structural measures and believed that debt can be obtained and interest is very cheap.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u56	Mr President! It is only so that what we need is work here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u59	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Stubb the following questions. There are some contradictions that do not open without an explanation. The government predicts an economic growth rate of 1.4 per cent next year, although at the same time purchasing power is being cut very significantly. Secondly, the government believes that the unemployment rate will be reduced as early as next year. At the same time, however, employment appropriations, start-ups, apprenticeships and so on are being cut sharply. I'm asking how these equations can work. It is not going to open up to me how all growth and employment can improve and Finland will rise if we cut out the elements by which that rise and growth could take place. I would like a serious answer to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u60	Mr President! In that group speech, I said something was wrong. Now it's 2015, and next year is 2016. According to forecasts, next spring the largest dividends of this millennium will be distributed, and next spring, unfortunately, we will have the highest unemployment of this millennium. We know that companies prefer to distribute dividends to shareholders rather than see the future dark, do not see investment targets, do not trust the future, but there is a lot of work to be done by the government. Why is there such a climate in the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u63	Mr President! I will not go into this, but, as has been said here, during the last period, the social democrats were unable to resolve unemployment, quite the contrary. Unemployment increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u66	Mr President! This surprised me just now when both Mr Stubb and Mr Lepomäki referred to the IMF in their recent speeches. After all, last week the IMF's country report came from Finland, and the IMF sees a high risk that cuts will cause more damage to economic growth than anticipated, and calls for a loosening of the pace of spending cuts. In fact, the IMF is on the same page with a large number of economic experts, so that I urge you to look at these. You talk a lot about responsible economic policy. It is not a responsible economic policy to cut an absurd amount, cut off from the wrong places, cut off from our future. Mr Tolppanen referred to the need for innovation. Yes, we do. And the government is doing the wrong thing, for example in its tax policy, management registers and others. So we must now make a genuinely responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u67	Mr President! And now that Congressman Tolppanen is gone. He said that the opposition was going to be squealing around here. These training and research cuts have now been mentioned. A week ago, 350 researchers and professors from different universities took on these insolent cuts in education and research. It was not a fuss, it was a genuine concern that in the Nordic countries there would be more funding for education and research, in Germany, in all the countries with which we compete in the market and in knowledge. These savings mean that you make 3300 employees walk from universities. I can say that the previous government cut EUR 13 million from the University of Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u70	Mr President! The message of the citizens is clear: make decisions, because this rate of debt cannot continue. The government has a very good whole: moderate adjustment of expenditure, an encouraging tax policy that does not increase the overall tax rate, and structural reforms that can reform Finland, as well as key projects. The weakness of the opposition is that you lack this large entity, which could increase confidence among Finns and among experts in the Finnish economy. You also give the wrong impression that all the experts in the Committee on Budgets would disagree. This is a completely false claim. Then, President, this SDP tax policy line. You have now revealed the detail that you are doing tax policy at the expense of municipal services.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u73	President! On the basis of economics, it has been suggested that a more expansive Keynesian economic policy should be pursued. I know something about it, too, because in the '90s I was bringing Keynesian criticism to Finland. This is an economic policy which is now primarily restricted by two factors. The second is the need, the absolutely necessary need, for this adjustment of our relative cost level, and every time we try to do so we are forced to pursue a reasonably tight fiscal policy, otherwise we will not succeed. Another limiting factor is the structural deficit and the sustainability gap, that is, the deterioration of public finances every year as a result of ageing, and this prospect of ageing can no longer be seen in the same way as in previous decades, that growth itself manages the debt that arises as a result of such a recovery. That's why it's the most scientifically justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u74	Mr President! Indeed, there seems to be difficulties within the government in believing the opposition's legitimate warnings about the harmfulness of these cuts, and when you find it difficult to believe us, at least believe the experts who have been there in our committee before us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u75	Mr President! There is a way in the Committee on Finance to consult a wide range of experts. The opposition presented a large number of experts for consultation. Mr. Speaker! If Finland had a temporary cyclical development now, it would probably be worth increasing its debt and investing in investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u78	Reply, Mr Arhinmäki, followed by three minutes at the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u79	Mr President! It seems now that in the speeches of many members of the government, structural reforms and cuts are going to go awry. These are not structural reforms; they are precisely the ones that undermine our ability to improve employment, which undermines the long-term ability to create growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u84	Let us let Mr Lindtman in the middle of this, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u85	Mr President! Thank you to the President for having to correct Mr Rantakangas' false argument. Admittedly, the SDP does not finance quite a large amount of purchasing power improvement — in relation to the government’s alternative — for pensioners and employees by means of municipal services. Under the SDP option, local government finances are more balanced than the government option. But, Mr President, an important point has been raised here, namely education. Since the government has been defending these cuts throughout the year, a significant new information was received this month. By the way, Minister Stubb, you apologized for your training cuts. If you're looking at the size of the surgeries, you're looking in the right direction. But, Minister, rather than just apologizing, do you not think that now that you have apologized, you should also do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u88	Mr President! I am trying to summarise a good and varied debate on the six answers to which the government is seeking in its economic policy. The first relates to competitiveness and the promotion of competitiveness. That is where we have two things: 5% improving the competitiveness of unit labour costs and 5% the wage moderation that we want from the social partners. That's the first step. The second relates to exports, and here we may have a slightly different view. In other words, exports do not start to run unless services and products are produced in Finland that sell in that world. After all, the former Minister of Finance talked a lot about export-driven growth, and that is what we are looking for, and that is not really what we can really do, either in the public sector or as political decision-makers, but rather more private sector. The third is growth. What can we do on the government side? Number 1 is, of course, the key projects we are investing in, but number 2 is to create a climate in Finland that is worth investing in, and that is where we actually have one of our biggest genes at the moment. Number 4: Employment. What can we do about it? Actually, two things: One is to promote local reconciliation. We believe that this is the key to improving the employment situation in Finland. And the second is, of course, to dismantle the incentive traps that we currently have on the labour market. Number five, taxes. What can we do? We can bring down the taxation of employment, in one way or another, to promote all those measures that increase hard work, and we can also help those measures that promote the productivity of our businesses. Then the number 6, and this is the main question: If all these things are realised, that is, competitiveness, exports, growth, work and taxation, then we can maintain a Finnish welfare society, which means education, which means our pension system, which means equal opportunities and study. And here we come to the last question raised by Mr Lindtman. The fact is that if we do not get these first five to work, then unfortunately this country will continue to operate and we will have this ping-pong from here to eternity. If these first five do not work, the Finnish welfare society will fail, and I hope that no one wants to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u89	Madam President! Finland will not only be able to move forward by concentrating on negative issues, but we should concentrate as a nation and as decision-makers on positive opportunities and do everything we can to bring about a positive turn. The Minister said that exports will not take place unless products are produced in Finland that go to trade. We must therefore also invest more in the internationalisation of SMEs. Over the past few years, a growing share of TEM's budget resources has been channelled into Team Finland's operations. Although it is good in itself, it is not only responsible for what growth-oriented SMEs need in their export promotion projects. We should now consider how best to secure the conditions for Finnish business and market access. I ask the Minister for Finance: are you going to secure the export promotion of SMEs by other means than through Team Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u90	Madam President! We must repeat: this current government will take on more debt next year than the previous government will do for this year. This has to be repeated, for now it is all the time from the left side of me to the left side of the argument.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u93	Madam President! Mr Stubb's speech was quoted here that savings alone are not going to make it out of this. Why not quote it, it's a very good quote and it's good enough for today. The government doesn't think it's just the savings that's gonna get us out of this. That is why the government is making reforms, such as pension reform, social reform is being promoted, deregulation is being promoted and, above all, efforts are being made to make reforms that support growth. It is absolutely central to local agreement, which is a very daily issue, and even more specific is the fact that it is possible to promote the cost-competitiveness of Finnish companies. Once again, I appeal to the organisations to be able to agree on these matters. But it does make you sad when the President of the SAK says in the news that the questions of principle are now at hand with regard to the Post that the strike has to be taken. I would like to see saving Finland as such a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u94	Mr President! First of all, the government has all the keys to solving this situation. Prime Minister Sipilä is the Minister of Corporate Governance. If Mr Zyskowicz is concerned about this situation, I urge you to turn to the Prime Minister. But, Mr Zyskowicz, when you listed these ways in which the government, in your opinion, is trying to achieve growth, one feature is a symbol of all these means: none of them will come into force this year, one of them will not enter into force next year — at the earliest if you get these compulsory wage reductions into force, 2017 from the beginning, and even then it will be questionable. Our options offer work here and now. We do not have time to wait and allow unemployment to increase. Mr President! Minister Stubb, you apologize, but you do nothing — how do you think that feels about these university teachers and students? If you're going to take that candy and apologize, I suppose the assumption is that you're going to do something about it. What are you going to do if you are?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u95	Madam President! The Government’s objectives, which aim at strengthening the competitiveness of Finnish work and thus promoting exports, creating new jobs in Finland, will be well achieved if the social partners are able to agree on adequate reforms. That is the primary objective of the government. It is not the aim of bringing so-called forced laws into Parliament. The aim is for the social partners to be able to agree. If we can now agree on these things that are on the tables there, then the certainty that would arise from the wage developments in 2017 and the outlook for 2018 would bring stability and predictability that would have a positive impact. These coercive laws will not bring it, and the government will not pursue them. As far as this apology is concerned, I can say that, of course, we find these cuts, such as training cuts, very unpleasant, and surely the government is considering cancelling them when you table the alternative savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u96	Mr President! I still find it surprising that the government is underestimating this cyclical situation and the cyclical problems that Finland has. The government is now saying that it is seeking growth through structural reforms, but the government representatives and the finance minister are not responding to why, in addition to them, you have chosen to continue with a tight fiscal policy with a prioritized major cut in public spending. In my view, the current situation in Finland is the best indication of how this tight fiscal policy has been ineffective from the point of view of both debt and unemployment reduction, and also, according to the government's own speeches, it will be detrimental to growth and will therefore also increase unemployment. Why is this the right fiscal line in this cyclical situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u97	Madam President! Many people say that you, in the Chamber of Parliament, do not agree with all things, and this debate today demonstrates this very well. The only thing we agree on is that we have too many unemployed people, some 450,000 unemployed, and there is a risk that if this expenditure continues, this number of unemployed people will increase. That is why changes are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u98	Mr President! Yes, there is a future and a gloom for those who assume that today we will be able to reflect on the future of children and young people. After 15 years, according to the latest information, the level of education in Finland will stop. Its rise has been an essential factor in us that there is also a future. In other words, the fact is that the rise in education levels and technological developments have guaranteed us competitiveness. Now the head is about to get fucked up, because these very massive training cuts will lead to this pattern becoming even more difficult. If the decline in educational attainment and the combined structural change in the number of young people who are no longer trained as masters at all are the austerity measures — and massive unfair cuts are socially targeted, the decline in purchasing power and the increase in unemployment — they will lead to a further decline in purchasing power and even further decline in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u99	Värderade fru talman! Mr Ala-Nissila asked where examples of those countries that would have started to rise in this situation by revitalising them. Actually, there are. On the other hand, there are not those who, in this situation, are going to cut off training and research and that will enable the ship to change course — unless the course downwards is the change that is desired. But it wasn't actually the point: Minister Stubb spoke about exports, the private sector, companies and the importance of good export products. In the light of that, it is extremely confusing that we are now cutting off the bottom and that the government, apparently with an infinite sense of self-esteem, thinks that it is able to choose from it the gold grains to which then the few funds are distributed. This is a very special strategy in the market economy, and I am surprised that the centre and the coalition have thought it was the way to a new rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u100	Honorable Speaker! It must be said in this debate that unfortunately the situation picture of the opposition is missing. We have a good report on the budgetary plan, which takes account of the state of the economy, the government's fiscal policy line, the balance of public finances, the targeting of the adjustment of central government finances and the impact, also in the case of immigration, the fiscal responsibilities of central government and the finances of local government. We must now take into account the fact that we should have this common picture of the state of the economy. Since 2009, we have had a deficit, economic growth is slow, it is also slow in the long term, unemployment, above all long-term unemployment, has increased. However, the government’s fiscal policy line is one that leads us to sustainable growth on the road to improving employment. We are adapting public finances and, among other things, these road transport investments, which will amount to 600 million, are a good opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u101	Mr President! In fact, if you start with the government's economic guidelines, then the government is in an alley when you talk about, for example, wanting to have exports, but then you cut off education, research, or our future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u104	Mr President! Here Mr Touko Aalto promised to give me free education in economic policy, and I am happy to accept it. Generally speaking, I have been on the other side of the counter because I am a teacher of economics by profession, but I am glad that this kind of activity is coming. Then, Mr Heinäluoma mentioned the figure of half a billion, and that was also very much the case, because it is precisely this half a billion that is on the frivolous side of your alternative budget that we are talking about tomorrow. They're one of those one-off funds you take money out of and split up. I would like — when we talk about these experts, when the Bank of Finland's policies are quite far behind the line that the government has chosen — that when the Bank of Finland organises these evenings also for the opposition's representatives, make a very long time and go through these things thoroughly, because you do have quite a need for support education.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u105	Mr President! Unemployment has been increasing all the time, and that is why the management of employment should be the top priority, but many experts say that government action will continue to increase unemployment. This immediate situation will not be helped by major projects, especially when the employment budget is being cut hard at the same time. Youth unemployment is also on the rise. We have nearly 45,000 unemployed young people under the age of 25, and now the government is also going to reduce the budget for youth employment and the prevention of exclusion. In the longer term, this will cost society a great deal of money, because the euro that has been invested in the prevention of exclusion will bring itself back to a great extent. We know that one excluded young person will pay well over EUR 1 million in his lifetime, and it seems that the government has not at all reduced the alternative costs that rising unemployment and exclusion of young people will cost society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u106	Madam President! There's a bit of a contradiction in Demarie's line. On the one hand, there is a demand for short-term effectiveness, but on the other hand, it is offered to replace it with trick job creation, employment appropriations, I am particularly surprised that you do not seem to recognise this need for structural reform in the labour market. There is a great deal of talk about how knowledge is crucial and good products are decisive, but it is true that if the price of cheese falls, the demand for it will increase. There is no difference between the labour market
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u107	Mr President! This is perhaps the most extraordinary thing I have heard in a long time that the unemployed person is, in the opinion of Mr Lepomäki, cheese.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u110	Mr President! Quoting President Niinistö as a younger representative, we will pay either your debt or your pension, but not both. The debt must be stopped, and the government has understood this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u111	Madam President! In fact, this issue of debt-taking by the SDP is quite interesting. You told me you'd take less debt. It's a good goal as such, but how do you finance this? You take away from the municipalities because you do not make compensation for municipalities in municipal taxation, EUR 150 million, EUR 20 million for the informal economy, and you think that immediately ten times it will be 200 million. You, too, are going to rob the Bank of Finland, 60 million are going from there, 350 million from Sitra's workshop, so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u112	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about expert statements. I hope that if the government does not listen to the opinions of the experts and does not want to follow them, you will at least use reason, because unemployment is the biggest social poison. Today, unemployment is rising, youth unemployment is rising, and unemployment is what divides the people in the worst ways. Investments, training, investments in construction, renovation. We could quickly find jobs in the whole country if the government used 10% carrot money. With EUR 100 million, we could make a billion dollars worth of projects and employ people. These would be used as safe school environments for young schoolchildren, hospitals and nursing homes could be renovated, doing the good in general throughout the country. This would be good for the city center, for the assembly and for the Finns. Why aren't you doing this? Unemployment is not something that can be postponed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u113	Madam President! Representative Haatainen here has just quoted well that if you do not take an expert, you will at least put your senses into use. I personally consider all expert opinions to be reasonable. In fact, the government has taken its share of them and has paid attention to entrepreneurship, because the SME sector has been the most important employment sector in the last five years. The Government invests in employment and especially in small entrepreneurs. I believe that this is the right line for creating new jobs in Finland and achieving this deficit, which was also pointed out in this statement by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance that this 3% deficit is the threshold issue that we are now going to pursue here, and that is why investment in small businesses and the SME sector is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u114	Madam President! It seems that the government has set itself a target of 5+5 and so on, thinking that one can jump 15 meters — without feeling, without realizing that it is completely impossible. Now, according to the line of the Left Alliance, we should definitely jump in the first step already 7 metres and with a longer time target to achieve it 5+5+5, because that is exactly what is needed now: revitalization, as is the case with the Left Alliance's alternative budget. That is what all economic experts say. Listen to the sound of reason. And now I hope that in the center you will dig it out of you of the common sense that is now lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u115	Mr President! We need to remember which world we live in. This is a continuous global restructuring. We live in a single currency run by Germany. Digitalisation and robotics also eat jobs, as we see today. Circumstances are much more demanding. We need structural reforms that favour employment and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u118	Mr President! It is clear that Mr Ala-Nissilä has not had a proper look at this statement by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli's work in the Committee on Finance, when it was called for an alternative debate to be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u121	Mr President! We must now remind you that we are discussing a budgetary plan aimed at that year 19. Of course, there must be a clear view of how to stop further debt over the next few years. Velathan pays only the employee and the entrepreneur. It is this additional debt that is being managed by tax revenue, and that is why we need to have this alternative debate, which is the economic policy line in which this additional debt can be stopped. The problem is that we have not been able to carry out structural reforms that would make work more profitable and create products that can be exported, while at the same time making more products in Finland that do not need to be imported from outside. Here we need to find the means by which wages do not need to be reduced, but we need to find work productivity, and we need to find ways to reduce these side costs and other burdens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u123	Mr President! During the last term, the socialist finance ministers did not achieve anything other than 25 billion more debts for us to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u124	Madam President! Mr Myllykoski pointed out the alternative budget, which proposes an additional EUR 300 million for development aid and a 2% reduction in VAT, an additional EUR 1.5 billion for the state. In turn, the Demars will present EUR 740 million in additional taxes next year. Here is such an illusion that it is imagined that welfare will automatically increase by tightening taxation and increasing the loan. To a certain extent, this may be the case. If the cyclical pit is short-lived, it may be possible to leap over it by debt recovery, but now it has been done since 2008, and the results no longer speak for themselves. That's enough. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u125	Mr President! I'd like to see a representative. This is an option we'd really like to explore. He would notice that what he was saying here was not true. Mr President! This statement by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli, that wages should not be cut — as he said — is news. I ask you, Mr Stubb, if you agree that you are prepared to give up the 5% wage reduction target. And when you answer it, could you at the same time answer the question of this education? Today the OECD has warned Finland about this. As Mr Kiuru said here, Finland's level of competence is halting. And you apologize, but you don't do anything. No response to these, the fall in skills, the cuts in education, has come from here on the right side of the hall, not from the assembly, not from the centre, not from the Finns-based. Mr. Stubb, could you answer that, please? You're apologizing, but are you going to do something about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u126	Madam President! I would like to ask, Mr Stubb, Finance Minister: here just now, Ben Zyskowicz said that if the opposition is able to put forward an alternative to these cuts in education, it will be welcomed with pleasure and the cuts in education will be cancelled. The playback is the mother of the studies. Throughout the autumn, the Greens have put forward one-to-one options for these cuts. For next year, only the overcompensation rate and the minimum reduction in commuting expenses will be sufficient to compensate for all next year's training cuts. Are you, Mr Stubb, prepared to take the name of this alternative proposal, which replaces the Greens?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u127	Mr President! Mr Kiuru: You have rightly said that this proposal by our alternative budget for a fixed-term reduction in VAT of 2 percentage points is, unfortunately, a gap of 1.5 billion in our tax revenues. But remember that other side of the medal: would you perhaps like and would the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, also like an estimated 0.8% increase in the national economy over the next year? In other words, in addition to 0.7% of the Commission, 0.8%, a total of 1.5%. In that light, that tax loss is going to be quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u128	Mr President! The Government’s aim is to have a social contract in Finland, and the Government has had a very long-standing attitude towards it. Time and again the social partners have been called upon to conclude such an agreement, and it may now be close. If this comes about, surely it will lead to an even better result than these so - called coercive laws, which the government will have to resort to if it is not born. That's why I'm appealing to the key people in the SDP: You have tremendous contacts with the ay movement and trust. Use them now in the interests of Finland, in the interests of Finland as a whole and of Finland as a whole. Your support will certainly rise even further when you demonstrate that you are concerned about the country and not about party politics. Do it in the background, do it in public and make sure that the social pact of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government is fulfilled, because it can restore Finland's competitiveness, create new jobs and increase tax revenues and preserve the foundations of this welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u129	Mr President! Perhaps this patriotic privilege is our goal, we see only a little differently how that patriotic privilege is achieved. In the view of the Social Democrats, the way to make the economy work is to increase growth and employment. It's the only way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u132	Madam President! Yes, much was true about what Mrs Myller said, but why has this country been driven into such a situation that yesterday, among other things, the listed company Wärtsilä gave 98 people leave Vaasa, the whole country to a little more than 100 people? Why? Because jobs have been taken to cheaper labour countries. Who gave you permission? Who allows us to be able to import foreign labour, for example, from Estonia to construction sites? We can set anything up here, but we hire people from Estonia to do it because they are cheaper workers than our own.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u133	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen, the best way to do this is to combat the shadow economy, that no one should be brought here to trample wages, pay social security contributions and pay taxes. In the EU, for example, we cannot prevent Estonians from coming here, and if they are paid in accordance with collective agreements, social contributions and taxes, then we have nothing against it. Mr President! In this debate, it is essential that, when it is said that Finland's indebtedness should be broken, everyone agrees with it, and the only way to break it is for us to increase employment and for us to have an economy for growth. So, what's the government doing? Cut out education, which weakens our future prospects; cut down on purchasing power, pensioners, unemployed people, students, which takes up jobs, especially for small entrepreneurs; drive forced laws to cut holiday money, sick pay, which reduces purchasing power and consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u134	Madam President! The opposition strongly criticises the government for not only cutting the economy, but, on the other hand, every time the government has presented structural reforms, the opposition has resisted with just as cruel and strict opposition even then. In other words, I do not really believe that any government drugs are good enough for the opposition. In particular, I wonder that when the opposition is very much appealing to different economic wisdom to support its own economic policy, they seem to choose first of all economists who support their own view and then quote them very seminally. In particular, Sixten Korkman has been quoted, but he says, for example, that 'we could have a higher-quality and less cost-intensive higher education system if it could be reformed without prejudice' — as the government does. In addition, "Korkman believes that the success of structural reforms is crucial to achieving a sustainable growth path for Finland's economy. Finland’s subdued economic outlook and annual rising expenditure on population ageing
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u135	Madam President! The truth is that I have never heard such a critical group of economists in recent history in the Committee on Finance, at least when I have been there, assessing the economic policy of this government. It was so critical that, exceptionally, we even had to vote in committee on whether the experts were critical or not, because there is a sentence in the committee's report which makes little reference to the fact that there was no criticism here, but we could not, once and for all, take this position on our own names in the opposition. That is why we voted on whether the experts were critical. This is extraordinary. I've never come across anything like this before. But, Mr President, when we talk about this criticality, it is precisely because when the government believes that in the future we are going to cut wages, solve jobs here and now, this equation is impossible and, if I may say so, crazy. This is what all the experts are criticising right now. As for what I wonder, this is the line of the Coalition Party, good, but why do the Finns, for example, seem to rejoice at the fact that wages are being lowered?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u136	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about experts consulted by the committee. Well, it is a good practice for the opposition to have the opportunity to appear before the committee for consultation — if, for example, the experts you have presented made up 80% of the total mass, then it is not necessarily appropriate to summarise it now and to produce the picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u142	Madam President! The Government has taken the line of increasing inequality, disciplining the most low-income, sick, families with children, students and pensioners. The government also cuts the employment budget, the well-being of employees, and increases the uncertainty of working life. The government also drastically cuts our expertise, which has enabled our small nation to rise to the world map. As you yourself have said, Mr Finance Minister, the government's approach has been to improve employment by cutting. This has, however, led the government to turn employment developments into a negative spiral. Give me, now that I do not quite understand, a wire version of why you are not investing in employment right now, but you are waiting for the five different sectors to improve and wait for the future, 2017 if after that, even if it happens,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u143	Mr President! I now find it a little funny that it is said here that we have chosen the line of humiliation for families with children and others. At least I cannot find such a record in the government programme so that we do not now add one. Then I would have liked to discuss the grey economy. It was brought here, for example, that it was a good thing, and the government listened to the committees here, including the Bureau in which I am, and it was returned because it provides us with tax resources. That was a good thing. We then talked about this education here, we talked about the fact that the OECD has said that the level of education is stagnating. We have a very good level of education, and we often think about what we are talking about with young people. They even feel that everyone should have a master’s degree in order to do some lower education work. I myself remember that when I was young, I could very easily accept a variety of jobs. Today we have all kinds of driving licences and other conditions. I'm not saying that people don't have to know the job they do, but it's not just how.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u144	Madam President! Our most important task in getting our economy in order is to make the wheels of companies spin and improve the employment of Finns. That is probably what we are all agreed on today in this Chamber, the means seem to be very different for the government and the opposition. It is very good that the SDP is now concerned about major unemployment. How was last season? In the last parliamentary term, however, unemployment continued to grow. In Finland, structural reforms and improved competitiveness are needed to drive exports. If the labour force does not have that genuine demand, then it will probably not be helped by any kind of labour policy — it really needs those jobs. Indeed, it is possible to improve employment through the government's key projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u146	Mr President! Minister Stubb was concerned about Finland's export industry and its success. I come from a place where the world's largest pulp mill is currently being produced in Indonesia, the world's largest bio- boiler, a bio-power plant in South Korea. It invests in the forest industry, it innovates with LED lights certain measures for medicine, which can disinfect these hospital bacteria away. All that has been done there leads to good education and good product development in Finland. Now the government is taking the money out of product development and training — is this the intention then to go to the Finnish industry to drive down this way when this money is not available?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u147	Madam President! Lindtman of the SDP and Mr Kiljunen strongly criticised the government's policy of job creation. I would now like to ask how many new jobs were created by the Social Democrats during the last term of government. You don't have to answer that. We all know this answer. All the Social Democrats in their speeches also criticised the cuts in education, even though in the previous period your portfolio cut EUR 1.7 billion in training. We ourselves know that in this economic situation we are in the same situation as last season and there are no simple answers to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u151	I will give the floor to Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Rossi and Mr Heinäluoma, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u152	Madam President! I share Mr Myller's view that everyone here is thinking for the good of the country. We have different medicines and views about what to do. I really hope that this same thinking will also be in that field of interest, even though I understand that interest groups are already in the interests of a particular narrow lobby in terms of their nature and history and purpose. I am surprised that in this country the strike and strike are expanding in a situation where we need anything but strike. As far as the savings of the opposition are concerned, we have just heard that EUR 3 billion will be cut from education, then all other savings, development cooperation, social security, day care, employment money and so on have already been shot down. Then, here, Mr Yanar and Mr Touko Aalto are offering civil servants a kilometer allowance to compensate for all these savings. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I said that if you were to bring in really serious new billion-dollar savings to replace them, they would certainly be ready to be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u153	Madam President! This debate has also shown that the government has a clear line, that the opposition is trying to destabilise it, but it will not succeed with this. The government is currently investing unprecedentedly in very concrete issues, key projects, such as infrastructure projects, through next year's budget. Representative Lindtman, there is nothing to laugh about when work is done for Finns. That's really what we're gonna need here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u154	Mr President! In fact, it is true that, in the interests of honesty, both the Centre Centre and the Finns who support the tough cut-off line proposed by the Assembly before the elections, have changed their own speeches before the elections to the speeches of the Coalition Party. The spirit seems to be good again when this one pit, where for a while there were goals of its own, has been passed. But there is concern here that these employment issues have all been outsourced to others. You yourself only make cuts in unemployment security — that is your big thing — and cuts in the employment budget. Then our great concern, which has still not been answered by Minister Stubb, is whether you are prepared to reconsider these cuts in education, universities and research. When it was said here that the opposition's speeches do not have any effect, they have now, in the autumn, been influenced by almost a dozen things that the government has withdrawn. I live in the hope that now this reduction in education and training budgets will be
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u155	Then Minister Stubb, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u156	Madam President! I did not quite understand what Mr Heinäluoma said. He somehow spoke himself into a bag because he began by saying that the former Prime Minister was wedge-eyed against the operation, and now he ends by saying that the Coalition Party is the cutting party and the Finns of Peru and the Centre are supporting. Which are you talking about here? This was not quite the case in your speech. All the same, this government, Mr President, has three objectives beyond the others: one is the adjustment of central government finances in such a way that indebtedness will end by 2019 and debt will end in 2021, which in practice means that we will have to adjust state finances to some EUR 4 billion during this term of government, and this debate has largely been linked to it. The second objective, above all, is to improve the employment situation: the employment rate to 72% and 110000 new jobs. The third is major structural reforms, of which social and health services are one. And when you meet a tanner's stallion one day, it's definitely in 2019. That is to say, the efforts made by this government will be pursued and verified here as a whole. There's been a lot of talk about training cuts. Yes, I share this concern with everyone, and yes, we have also publicly apologized for them. The fact is, however, that if we do not get the Finnish economy in order, that is to say, to adapt the state economy, to improve the employment situation or to make these structural reforms, then, unfortunately, this cycle of cuts will continue. We hope that in 2019 we will be facing a new situation and Finland will feel much better. And I hope that the opposition also wishes the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u157	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u179	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u272	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u294	Madam President! The previous report debate discussed and covered the financing of development cooperation and cuts in it: next year, for example, Mr Uotila and I had a little discussion about this, you will be presenting an additional EUR 300 million in the alternative budget for development cooperation. I would like to point out here that, from the point of view of the whole, if we look at this kind of international solidarity, the responsibility for everything that is happening in the world, we are shouldering responsibility through development cooperation, even if it is cut. This supplementary proposal now proposes an increase of EUR 450 million in the budget for immigration and, in addition, EUR 130 million in Finnfund, which is also for good purposes and for the benefit of developing countries. It is worth looking at this, in my opinion, as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u295	Madam President! We have talked about the grey economy today, the grey economy and its eradication. In this country, we have, among other things, a law on the taxation of group subsidies, a law that is impenetrable, but it is, Mr President-in-Office, who is unfortunately not here today, before the free movement of capital in Europe, and that law dates back to 1986. If the elephant-refining loophole in one paragraph of this article of the law were dismantled and blocked, at least EUR 1 billion — a billion — would be made available to the Treasury. It's really so much money, you might want to use that card. I made a bill on that last season, it did not go through, from the opposition when it came. Now I have reformed and even improved that bill, and I really hope that it will go through now. But it'll come to the hearing later. Another point which we should now draw our government's attention to is the verification of the tax. Tax inspectors have been reduced and, at the same time, a large amount of tax revenue has been lost to the shadow economy. This should be put right, namely, according to the tax officials' own calculations, one tax inspector earns ten times his own salary a year. This is also quite a number that could be introduced together from a very grey economy. Thirdly, an immigration policy with a lot to do. At the moment, we have become an expensive, expensive baget. We are now giving EUR 0.5 billion of new money to deal with this problem and this crisis in some way. However, this EUR 0.5 billion will not be enough. Unfortunately, this will not be the case. Personally, I find it very strange that a person who comes in with his lips sewn, without papers and permissions at one of our border crossing points and says one word, 'asylum', 'ayl' or'safe haven', is getting a couple of years full ups in Finland, even if he is not granted asylum. Fortunately, on this matter, we are now getting through a situation where this long and difficult process is being speeded up and that instead of three judges, there are two judges who can ultimately make a decision to convert or refuse. It saves some money, but not enough. This is a difficult matter, but we still have to have the courage to talk about it. We must now also be able to make decisions on rapid conversions, when the visitor is obviously on his way with modified truths and when he comes from another safe country. We must introduce the common rules that we have in Europe. We must have the courage to do so. We only have a population of 5.5 million, and at the moment, before this crisis, we have been the fourth best country in Europe to meet the arrivals. We need to remember this. Unfortunately, our money is not enough; priorities must be made. Again, if we are to have converts or to make these expulsion decisions, is it really the case that three or four people are needed to escort one person away by plane? It's so expensive, it's not worth anyone's money. That together we should find a solution, what to do with it. And then this disgusting thing: Kempele, the rape of Kempelee. Do we really have to accept the arrival of such people? It's disgusting, it's vile, it's low. Should authors be granted international protection in Finland? I want an answer to this. In addition to that, the police are also in trouble. During the last term of government, police resources were already being cut, and now they have no people. They say that 56 police officers are now graduating, but they have been told that there are no jobs. And yet these policemen were trained for need. Now we have justification for the reception centres without informing the police. The police are at fault because they can't resource it, but it might be hard to resource even if they know when a reception center is set up. In addition to that, yesterday’s news: Wärtsilä terminates more than a hundred people in Finland. The stock exchange company Wärtsilä is doing well. It's got big orders for small engines, really big, billions. The problem is that engines are no longer made in Vaasa or in Finland as a whole. The creation of engines has been removed from the borders. And finally, What do you want me to do? That's the big thing. We need to be able to integrate
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u296	Mr President! I will take the floor here when I have already raised quite a few points. I think it is very good that this financial investigation has received additional money. We heard in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities an expert who told us that one person-year of work is producing itself back, I think, more than 50%, that is to say, a really good result and a rejection of the informal economy. Mr Kankaanniemi pointed out that, in spite of this, we certainly also need additional resources for courts and prosecutors, because when the police are able to investigate these well, of course they will also come to the prosecutors and then to the courts. The other day, I met a district judge from here in Uusimaa, who sits very much on these financial crimes cases, and he said that at the moment they do not come to the courts terribly, at least to his rook — he is there in Tuusula. So I suspect that either the police or the prosecutor are now carrying some kind of bag, so that no further progress can be made. That I'm really, really happy with this extra money. And although I know that people do not always want to discuss this immigration terribly, we have to admit this fact: for example, we now have the idea of making savings of EUR 3 billion on these expenditure increases, and if we spend a billion, a half, 2 billion a year on this matter, then we will eat it up. We have to sort this out somehow. When we talked today about different ways of employment and other things, we should solve how we help those people who need help, and then how we deal with the problem that people who do not really need help will not then be left to burden the cost structure. All people are important, but it must be noted that we do not have the opportunity to bring dozens, dozens, tens of thousands of people here. I want to help those people who need help, but we may have between 50% and 70% of those who are not. That is the problem now — here too we should be talking about different things. We are in a very difficult economic situation with this issue. And those quick turns wouldn't be a bad thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u297	Madam President! In fact, it is quite good that the government made such a move that it withdrew the law of active repentance and in this way did not let go of those who once hid tax money abroad, and then went on to make self-repentance exercises and penance decisions, as has been pointed out here. It is a very good thing that the reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners was cancelled and the cuts in the reimbursement of medicines were halved, the police budget for the grey economy was restored and, apparently, there has also been a real promise of a programme to combat the grey economy. Of course, it is absolutely scandalous if this withdrawal of the pensioner housing allowance is now found to be some kind of scam, that we should then get money out of their pockets in some other way. This really requires clarification very quickly. The situation of asylum seekers is one that will burden our public finances, and the better we manage integration, the less the total costs in the longer term will be, and the more positive opportunities and the economic, positive effects will be achieved if things are properly managed. In this debate on the report on the budgetary plan it was stated that there was also a point in the report of the Committee on Finance that, when these asylum seekers and this situation are particularly burdened by many Member States of the European Union, these EMU criteria, i.e. flexibility mechanisms, including the deficit criterion, should also take account of such an exceptional situation. Otherwise, I also believe that Finland should be more active influencing these criteria, which once came at a very random level, particularly this 60% of GDP, this criterion of government debt. There was no economic or other justification for it. This was by chance the average level of government debt when the euro area was formed. So this was also quite a criterion. These and their functioning must be called into question. And in the past I referred, for example, to this concept of net debt — gross debt. I believe that this Council of Budgetary Assessment, which is preparing its next report, will also address this issue, because from the perspective of Finland it would be a much more appropriate and fair way of dealing with the net debt ratio than the gross debt ratio, because we are, as I said earlier here, the seventh least indebted country and we actually have 50% less public debt in relation to GDP than in Germany, for example. In terms of net debt, the government debt is 25 per cent above gross domestic product. In other words, we must encourage the government to hold discussions at that EU level to improve these. But hopefully there will be more of these penances from the government. And when there was also talk of cuts to education and universities, it is now particularly urgent to have the next decision of repentance to cancel these university’s research and education surgery decisions, at least to the worst. For example, targeting pharmacy competition in the majority of cases only at the University of Helsinki and for a very small part, for 1 million, then elsewhere is quite unreasonable for the University of Helsinki, and I hope for a penance exercise in this regard as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u298	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out to the social demoks that this is where the running away from responsibility leads to the fact that one can only complain and pious in the Chamber when, for example, the representative Kankaanniemi and other basic Finns influence matters through their ministers. Those things are not decided in demonstrations or by opposition, not by any amount of mouthing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u303	Madam President! When a government document on the supplementary budget for next year is being examined, you cannot be serious. The situation in Finland's economy is serious. It is noted here that GDP growth is close to zero, that unemployment is rising and periods of unemployment are increasing and that even after the recession, growth seems to remain frivolous. The euro area has now grown by around 1.5%, mainly driven by household consumption. Next year, growth in the euro area is expected to spread to business investment, and this could be something of the order of 1.8%. However, our gross domestic product is stagnant in almost zero growth, although this government proposal estimates that slight growth could be expected next year. The fact is, too, that the economic recovery measures are now visible and have a delayed effect. But the most important thing now is to bring those difficult and painful decisions to the finish line and finally balance the economy and also to the growth path.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u308	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue this debate on asylum seekers in that it is mainly about those funds and things of this kind that we are talking about, and indeed more about economic issues, specifically about this money, but not so much about how it is being used. I would like to highlight precisely these new approaches, which we must do in every sector, that the same or, indeed, smaller money will be used differently in the future. Chairman! If I may cite an example, I am sure that you have heard a good example of this Kauhava activity, particularly among asylum seekers, and that it is precisely that people are not kept in these reception centres, but that they are given the opportunity to participate there immediately to maintain their own reception centre activities. There are restaurant activities, there are schools, there are primary and secondary schools, there are professional teachers already in use. In fact, what I would like to see in it is precisely that good management, and that is what I would like to see done with determination in every sector, where it is now being said that money is scarce and that there will be even less money available, how we could reform together and introduce new ways of working. In this integration, above all, when we are certainly all concerned about the costs of asylum seekers, hopefully there will also be asylum seekers who will be able to build our society in the future, who will be entrepreneurs, will be teachers, will hopefully also be doctors in the future, and we in Finland will also be able to make more effective use of the contribution they can make to Finland. But, of course, we must also ensure that citizens are genuinely concerned about what all this brings when this debate is about to take place, what kind of people will come into the country. We have to put resources into it, but above all we have to look at who the people there are running this system when they come to our country and start.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u309	Mr President! In my view, the increase in unemployment due to Microsoft's large redundancies in recent years, mainly those with higher education, is quite right in this supplementary budget proposal by adding EUR 10 million. I made it my responsibility to provide assistance to recruit for research, development and innovation tasks. This figure could have been a little bigger for the Kents, but under the circumstances of such a tight economy, it is certainly a good thing. This will make it easier to keep the high level of training and skills of workers who are being made redundant up to date, now that they have access to the labour market to update their skills. As is generally known, skills in the ict sector are ageing very quickly, but fortunately, for those who are hired with these appropriations it is not getting old. Mr President! I believe that, as many others have said here today, the most morally important decision of this supplementary motion is to cancel the cut in the housing allowance for pensioners. I shall now base this assessment on the official information to date. Well, in any case, in the big picture, this cancellation decision is absolutely correct, especially in view of the fact that pensioners find it extremely difficult to increase their own income. I therefore sincerely thank the government for withdrawing this proposal. Of course, perhaps this original proposal should have gone completely undone, admittedly.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u310	Mr President! I must say that I was, in a way, disappointed by what Mr Heinonen said. After all, he did not take a stand on this matter of the taxation of pensioners, and when it is mentioned here that incorrect decisions are being corrected, I find it unquestionably wrong that the government is proposing that pensioners be put in a different position in taxation from employees. It does not match the citizens' sense of justice, and I have not heard of any employee or worker demanding this. Yes, everyone accepts that the same income is paid in the same way, especially when it is known that this is quite a big thing for pensioners with low and middle incomes, also in terms of income. I hope that this decision will be corrected, but there is no doubt that there will be a hurry. When Mr Mäkelä said that the opposition cannot be influenced by the fact that there is no power, there has been a constitutional error in this speech by Mr Mäkelä. It is not the government that has the power; it is the parliament that has the power. Yes, all power is here, and what the government does depends on what the parliament gives consent to, that every government policy that is being discussed here also requires the approval of this house, and it is affected here by every Member of Parliament. Whether it's opposition or government, Helsinki or South-East Finland or Lapland, and the same rights are used here to vote and take a position and also to speak. Finally, I would like to say that this is a very confusing situation, that we still do not know what this decision to cancel the housing allowance for pensioners is: has it been taken, or is it that, once one operation has been cancelled, another, a little smaller, has been put in there to continue? I fear that it has now been done so that the whole truth has not been told to the Parliament, but this is a partiality of this kind, and it is now difficult to know, since there is no Minister Stubb here, who certainly knows this matter as Minister of Finance, nor does the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Mr Mäntylä, who is responsible for this matter. It's a very confusing situation. Have the thanks gone for nothing?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u311	Madam President! First of all, it must be said at least to some of the Finns who have spoken here today that perhaps the problem in the government line, when we are trying so hard to get it right here, is partly due to the fact that our citizens have also informed us that this line, which the Finns have now represented in the government, was not even known on the corner of commerce last spring. This is the problem that many people say has completely misunderstood what has been said at the corner of the store by you, and now this reality is something quite different. That is the problem, and that is what we have tried to call for, what this change in your position is based on. President! Finally, I would like to say from this debate which has been held here that it does indeed seem to be a good thing that the government withdraws these unfair decisions, for example with regard to housing aid for pensioners and the informal economy. However, my assessment in committee was that this does cause quite a lot of gray hair for the civil service as well. A much better way would be to prepare carefully and to decide at that stage what is actually going to be done, and then, in late autumn, not to start bringing a whole new item here, in which Parliament is also in a very special situation with regard to procedures. So now we have no information, President-in-Office, about the decision taken today on the government's proposal on housing allowance. I personally believe that I am not in a position to be in favour of sending this matter to committee if we do not have a report here, and if there are no ministers present, then we will not, and therefore, President, I would like to suggest that this matter remains on the table for the sitting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u312	Once Mr Huovinen has asked to be placed on the table, the matter remains on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u313	Mr President! Can we not leave this on the table for the next plenary session?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u314	President! This is where Mrs Huovinen made a proposal which I support.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u315	Mr President! I also support Mrs Huovinen's proposal, and as far as the time is concerned, these are the issues that should be dealt with in the light of day when the Minister is present. I understand that tomorrow, for example, there will be an alternative budget for the opposition on the table, and that is why this would be forced once again into that final phase of the sitting. That is why I think that Thursday after Question Time is a well-founded time.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u316	Mr President! I support Mr Heinonen's proposal. We will be able to resolve this matter by the next plenary session and we will be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u317	Ladies and gentlemen! Since there have been two proposals that have been supported, we would have to vote. Is there any chance of reconciliation? - I don't think there's much in common. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a little break, 10 minutes, figure out how to proceed, and then we'll go on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u318	The proposals that have been put to the vote shall be put In the debate, Susanna Huovinen, supported by Krista Kiuru, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session next Thursday, 26 November 2015. With the support of Kauko Juhantalo, Timo Heinonen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the next plenary session on 25 November 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u319	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u320	Mr President! Taxation is a key instrument for fair distribution of social income, and justice is a fundamental social value and objective for the Left Alliance. That is why I would like to make a proposal in accordance with the table on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u321	Mr President! I support Mr Andersson's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u322	Mr President! I would like to submit to Parliament for approval the statements of objection 1, the first of which concerns the limitation of interest rebates on real estate investment companies. This is a loophole that allows unlimited reduction in the interest rate of foreign or foreign real estate companies and thus aggressive tax planning. Some of the present governmental parties in their opposition have called for correction. The second statement concerns the tightening of the taxation of millions of inheritances. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the very great problem of principle in relation to the government's bill on donations from a natural person. The law of unquestionably good purpose itself seriously violates the principles of taxation and, at least indirectly, the equality of citizens. The principles of good taxation include clarity and transparency, which means that efforts have been made to reduce the number of non-income-related reductions in recent years. Why they want to restore the right to donate is not reflected in the government's proposal. It would therefore serve as a partial but modest compensation for government university cuts, so it is clear that the best solution for university funding is to cancel the cuts and not leave the funding to charity. The quantitative limits for these tax reductions have always been set at a very low level. Thus, special attention is drawn to the fact that the maximum amount of the donation reduction is set at EUR 500000 per year. This level is entirely different from other deductions and also from previous fixed-term laws or from the existing ceiling on the right to deduct. It is double without justification. The increase in the maximum amount is all the more strange when very few natural persons could take advantage of the maximum reduction. According to the Finnish Tax Administration’s statistics, in 2013, there were 4100 persons in Finland, or per cent of income recipients whose taxable income exceeded EUR 300000. The ceiling for the reduction — that is to say, the double ceiling — is likely to be valid for up to hundreds, perhaps tens, of top-rich people. In other words, if the ceiling on deductibility is strongly increased, this element can only be seen as geared towards the richest elite and thus even undermining the equality of citizens. I also draw attention to the fact that the bill is not limited to Finland, but can be done for any university in the Eta region. This opens up the opportunity for a Finnish millionaire to finance Oxford or Cambridge or other top university where his own offspring happens to study. Perhaps there is also an easier place to study for donations. At the same time, in Finnish higher education institutions, the negotiations continue and education is cut further. More than EUR 100000 are also the most likely beneficiaries of the donation reduction due to their educational status and the level of knowledge in tax planning. This 1.5% share of income earners pays 29% of earnings tax. For all taxpayers, large tax losses are quite theoretical, but even probable for the wealthiest, and even the theoretical possibility of directing their taxes to the body that they want to do so must be rejected. The estimated tax loss of the donation tax is only one thousandth of the tax losses it allows. If the taxpayer can direct all or a significant part of his taxable income to the benefit of an important purpose for himself, the principle of Finnish taxation is flagrantly violated. If this ethical change is accepted, then nothing will prevent an extension of the donation reduction to all other sectors. A permanent tax reduction for university donations as proposed is a step towards à la carte taxation, in which the large tax payers, in particular, determine what they finance. It drastically reduces the functioning of democratically elected decision-makers, social justice and the sound financing of public services. Mr President! Nor is there any justification for why the lower limit of the donation reduction could not be, for example, EUR 100, because we would like to extend the donation reduction to low and medium incomes. I have made these serious comments on the tax principle both in the Committee on Finance and in its tax section. I would now also like to record them in the Minutes of the plenary session. I hope that we will not have to return to this speech when the law turns out to be a complete failure and injustice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u323	Mr President! I support Mrs Haraka's motion of objection and also the second motion of objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u324	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u325	Mr President! This government proposal is very sad from the point of view of students and the student movement as a whole. Deletion of index-linked student support means that we in Finland return to a situation where students are the only population group whose primary income benefit does not follow a change in the cost of living. So let us return to a situation where the real value of student aid and purchasing power continue to fall, thus making the economic situation of already low-income Finns miserable. For these reasons, I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u326	Mr President! I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u327	Mr President! This government proposal to amend the Student Aid Act is, however, extremely regrettable. I myself, as a student, have been demanding student support for the index, and it has been achieved after a long struggle. Now this is being taken away, which is a very sad thing. This reflects the ignorance of the everyday lives of ordinary students that it really is to live on very small incomes. It is particularly problematic that these incomes have not been revised at all for a very long time and have certainly not followed the rise in housing costs and other cost of living. This is why many students are forced to work alongside studies, for example. We should improve the income of students, not weaken them, because the level of income is very low, and this government proposal will now lead to a quite opposite result, that is to say, we are about to take away this long-running, finally achieved indexation, which is really a terrible thing from the point of view of many students and also from the point of view of future generations. I really hope that the government will withdraw from this too. Now that we have seen these weeks of effective repentance from these government proposals, I hope that this will be the next subject of effective repentance. Well, I'd do it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u328	Mr President! I agree with this very important point made by the previous speakers. I can only be surprised to see the government proposing the abolition of student money from the National Pensions Index, which means that the government is already cutting people below the poverty line without the government being able to justify what this proposal means for equality in education, what this proposal means for the accessibility of education. For these reasons, I also support Mr Andersson's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u329	Chairman! Now that the issue of abolishing student support from this national pension index has obviously been discussed, it is certainly good to remember now how that index is developing next year — that is to say, becoming a minus sign — and that in concrete terms means a change in the real amount of student support, which means that the student would receive less money for his account next year if we kept this student support still tied to this index. So, in the short term, we are sticking to the current level of student support. What must then be discussed and discussed together at a later stage is precisely what is the correct index form for this study aid. If and when this current economic situation is so bad for a very long time before the government's proposals begin to address this economic situation and make the economy rise and the index a plus, then we must see whether the student aid will then be linked back to this index, and that can then be checked in each budget reading. But what debate must also take place as a result of this development of student support is a debate on this basic income. That is what the government is going to try out during this parliamentary term, and I see that student support should also be changed to this basic income model in order to encourage study, including employment, in which the student could better combine different life situations, its study and possible employment and family. I understand that almost all parties have strong support for this transition to basic income or at least for trying it out. But for the moment, this student support show.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u330	Mr President! For this previous speech, in the short term of the band, this index cut does not, in itself, directly worsen the situation of the students. Of course, in the same breath, it must be admitted that the financial situation of students is often very demanding, so that these student grants have not increased much in the last few decades — whether the increase over the last 20 years was roughly one percentage point per year, I am now not sure how many figures I can give. Well, in any case, during my own study period, I often found that working was not terribly encouraging during studies, because the income limits for student support were very strict. In practice, it was often the case that the additional income of around EUR 600 resulted in a reduction of some EUR 300 to 400 in student support and housing allowance. In other words, I think that, in the future, when this overall reform of student support is carried out, attention should be paid to these income limits of student support, which would provide incentives to work, thereby also providing students with work experience, which would be important in the future in the post-graduate transition to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u331	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u332	Mr President! The increase in court fees is a matter of great importance in principle. According to the Constitution, people are equal before the law. Equal legal protection is a fundamental right for everyone. As I pointed out in my speech last week, the increases in court fees are very significant and the impact of these increases on people's legal protection has not been properly clarified. Last week, the new President of the Supreme Court, Timo Esko, was also concerned about the legal protection of the poor. In an interview with Yle, he said: "The chances of a wealthy man going to court are better than the poor. There's no way out of it." This is easy to agree with. Thus, the situation is already unfair in terms of legal certainty, and increases in payments would only exacerbate the situation. Why does the government want to further undermine the legal protection of low incomes? Furthermore, the proposal does not improve the position of small entrepreneurs, since the EUR 2000 legal fee may be relatively high for them, particularly in the case of cases dealt with in market law. On the basis of the above, I shall make an objection to the rejection of the legislative proposals in accordance with No. 2 above.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u333	Mr President! I support Mr Hänninen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u334	Mr President! I, too, would like to support the proposal made by Mr Hänninen. This has been the case in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and these increases in payments are very high compared to this previous level, and we have then, together, made a counter-proposal on this issue, which was not successful, but now I support it. He's doing a show.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u335	The 10th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 9/2015 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u336	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u337	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u338	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u339	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u340	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u341	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u342	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on the TyVM 1/2015 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u343	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 8/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u344	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 4/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u345	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 5/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-11-24-ps-69.u346	The 21st item will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 6/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
