ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Silvia Modig requests exemption from the Board of Directors of Yleisradio Oy. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u2	The fourth item in the order of business is the election of the auditors of the Bank of Finland. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the following as the auditors of the Bank of Finland and their alternates:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u3	The fifth item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Commission of the Office. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u4	The 6th issue of the Order is the Government’s statement on the affiliations of the members of the Government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament does not take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u5	Madam President! The Government Programme praises prosperity and prosperity. Thus, wealthy people do not have to participate in the national economy. At the same time, those who, for one reason or another, do not support themselves with their own work will be punished — not yet with their own work or no longer with their own work. It is therefore surprising and surprising why Prime Minister Sipilä is not giving a fair indication of the value of his portfolio. Other ministers, such as Minister Ruhula, have scrupulously broken down their holdings of the share in the stock, Accuracy is commendable because we share savers must encourage other citizens to support Finnish companies and Finnish employment by investing potential savings in shares, funds and indices. Saving shares is important because a huge amount is expected in Finnish bank accounts that should be invested in Finnish business. The package to correct government cuts is only 2% of this. The impact of a completely different scale would be achieved if the Prime Minister's example led to this huge EUR 80 billion in company funding. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister acts as if he was ashamed of his wealth. He hides the information in such a summary announcement that wealth can only be guessed, let alone his investment principles, which could be a model of success for others. Prime Minister Sipilä has increased taxable capital income by EUR 75,000 last year. This means venture capital assets of several million euros. In particular, the investment in Nordea Capital Private income basket mentioned by the Prime Minister requires additional lighting. It is probably a capitalisation agreement, a tax envelope that allows for significant tax planning. When a transaction is made within the envelope, the investor avoids the proceeds of the transfer and the taxation of the dividend. The inheritance tax can be minimised. The desire of Finns to tap the tax bear is so great that the value of capitalization agreements has more than doubled in two years to a total of EUR 9 billion. This tax avoidance is important when taxation is thus transferred to the future, and the Prime Minister, if anyone has any influence on future taxation, in this case both capital and inheritance taxation. I would like to emphasise that this is my own conclusion on the vague, even evasive statement made by the Prime Minister. There is no point in saying that such theoretical ties should be able to be assessed precisely from the declarations of affiliation presented. Here again, the Prime Minister should supplement his declaration and preferably for his entire wealth. This example should suffice to prove that it is neither voyeurism nor jealousy. On the contrary, the Prime Minister should show by his own example that there is nothing to be ashamed of in wealth. My curious question is: what is the Prime Minister ashamed of? Mr President! I hear the Prime Minister's very vague announcement meets the minimum legal requirements. As it turned out, there are well-founded reasons to disagree. But transparency is not enough either to fill the letter of the law as sparsely as it should be. This manoeuvre reminds me of the Prime Minister's party colleague, Mr Kalli, who, in spring 2008, failed to announce his important electoral financiers when there had been no penalty for not doing so. Thanks to him, the law was changed so that transparency is understood even by those who must be individually threatened with punishment. At the same time, Finland and other actors in the developing provinces, who seek to create the very interests that should be reflected in the binding declaration, have emerged. Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which apparently also relates to links We need to be more specific. But it seems crazy in this situation, for the present government praises the rich and rich. You would think that the rich of the government’s own would be happy to offer up to all the people, for example, how to stop whiny and start saving securities.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u6	Mr President! It's a bond notice. What is the application for with this commitment notice? It seeks that both us representatives and society can assess the activities of the members of the Government in relation to these ties. In this respect, ministers' declarations contain the responsibilities they have. It doesn't ask about the value of a fortune. This is not an asset statement. This is a bond declaration. From our point of view, it is essential that — what it was, Nordea Capital, if something is advertised here — we know the instrument in which we are invested and we are able to assess the Prime Minister’s activities whether there will be situations where there may be a conflict of interest in relation to this. Similarly, I have noticed that there are investment homes, summer cottages, which have been announced by the ministers, which have not been valued either. It may be that even over the years they vary without:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u7	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u8	Madam President! Pursuant to Article 62(2) of the Constitution, the Minister, upon being appointed without delay, must provide Parliament with an account of his business activities, ownership in companies and other significant assets, as well as of his non-executive duties and other interests which may be relevant for the assessment of his activities as a member of the Government. Why, then, is this regulated? The aim of this provision is to prevent, as far as possible in advance, situations which may lead to a loss of confidence in the proper functioning of the members of the Government and to shift the focus from ex-post evaluation of the Minister's activities to measures to prevent possible abuses. The aim of this provision is therefore to enable the Minister to exercise control and to prevent the influence of external ties on the Minister's activities in advance. For example, the obligation to notify ties makes it possible to take into account the accessibility of the minister. More generally, it will also increase the transparency of the political system and at the same time strengthen its legitimacy. The regulation of the Constitution is largely in line with the general approach of Western Europe and is not directly affected by the need for change, especially if it is applied in a broader way, so that ministers also report changes in their assets and other interests in ministerial terms. In general, the system of notification of links has so far acted in accordance with its objectives and has been at least largely appropriate. The point that is raised in the declarations of links that are now being made is that the ministers' declarations are very inconsistent in their accuracy and cannot be considered to be of a common nature. Some ministers have recorded information on their assets in exemplary detail, such as the Home Secretary Orpo. On the other hand, the reports are rather vague. This is particularly the case for the Prime Minister, whose announcement refers, for example, to real estate by mentioning only examples and financial assets by defining them as significant without a more precise scale or specification. It can be said that there has been a change in the parts of the ministers, as the assumption is that the Prime Minister would tell more about his holdings than other ministers. The Prime Minister's headquarters have already been hastened to announce that the notification will not be completed, as it meets the requirements of the Attorney General's Office. Would it be appropriate for Prime Minister Sipilä to learn from his predecessors, Minister Katainen and Minister Stubb, whose binding declarations were more specific? As regards constitutional experts, for example, Mr Hidén and Mr Viljanen have considered the Prime Minister's declaration of assets to be too general in view of their role as Prime Minister, although it may not be considered directly inadequate from the constitutional point of view. In terms of transparency, would it be better to report more than less? This will at least require more detailed guidance within the Government on the content of ministerial engagement declarations so that Parliament receives, for each minister, the wealth data and other information required by the Constitution as clearly as possible. I would also like to stress that binding declarations are about making it possible to evaluate the Minister's activities and not to satisfy the curiosity.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u9	Madam President! I must say, when listening to the defence of former Prime Minister Vanhanen, the current representative — certainly a legitimate one — concerning the current Prime Minister, that is exactly what it is. The Prime Minister has just acted in accordance with the laws and regulations of the reporting obligation. On the other hand, Mr Hakkarainen brought the right things. — I am sorry, the Magpie has just brought up the correct arguments —
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u10	Madam President! I find this departure of Mr Haraka and the Social Democrats regrettable, and I am defending the Prime Minister here. The pig, who has made his declaration of commitment in compliance with the legal requirements, will also check its adequacy with the Chancellor of Justice. I would like to speak because, for my part, I wish to resign from this populist and personal opposition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u11	Mr President! This debate has been quite minor and negative, but I would like to make a positive point here: I very much welcome the fact that we have a Prime Minister in the country who is engaged in forestry. He knows for himself what the green economy is, what the bioeconomy is, what the left-wing opposition is always happy to tell us here. We now have a prime minister in the country who really knows the everyday life of rural livelihoods, and I would like a little light on the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u12	Madam President! Mr Räsänen put us all in the same basket, but I will resign from the criticism Mr Räsänen said. I would at least like to point out, for my part, that it is also positive to bring about its own conditions for success and how it has been able to exploit them, for the benefit of all the people. I don't want to be jealous of the rich, I want to live on their wing in a gross way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u13	Madam President! I would like to correct Mr Myllykoski's speech that Mr Räsänen did not condemn the left in general, but merely said that there were unpleasant shades in this speech by Timo Haraka, and he also assumed that this was obviously the Socialist line. Social Democrats, correct us if we are wrong about this. Instead, I would like to express my appreciation for Mrs Myllykoski's speech. He just reminded me that 80 billion people are lying there on the bank. It would be extremely important for us in Finland to have this kind of national capitalism in transport and for people to go looking for the funds that are in the bank accounts at an interest rate that is not there, better investment targets for their own future. As far as this capitalisation agreement is concerned, these are agreements in which the product's return is linked to an investment product. In actual fact, the investment product is not owned, but the value of its ownership will increase or decrease according to how it will rise or decrease. These are certainly not protected by deposit guarantee, i.e. they are, in that sense, perfectly normal risky investments in funds. Of course, it is only at that point that taxes will be paid when they are taken out. I must say that Mr Haraka had a rather peculiar idea of these capitalist agreements when he goes into some form of tax evasion. After all, there is quite a lot of marketing of these capitalisation stings for Finns at the moment. In fact, you might say that experts have suggested that they are expensive, that is, they are expensive for those who go there to invest. In that sense, of course, one can always wonder what other way to invest one’s own money even more productively. But I really think that this correction was a very good speech from the left, slightly surprising but very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u14	Thank you, representatives Räsänen and Essayah. I'm sorry if you've had a bad time. As an opposition party, the KD defends the government better than the government itself and in that sense makes the work of the government unnecessary. The only people in this Chamber who have mentioned tax evasion are representatives of Räsänen and Essayah. I am not even insinuating that there has been a violation of any law, just to say the fact that capitalisation agreements are an important subject of tax planning, both in terms of capital and inheritance taxes. That is why what matters more than who has a problem here is what the facts and facts are. To that end, these declarations of affiliation will be made so that we can know what is the truth, and I hope that Prime Minister Sipilä will complement this very limited declaration.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u15	Madam President! Representative Myllykoski there called for and wanted to know about the path of Prime Minister Sipilä's prosperity. I would recommend to Mrs Myllykoski: Risto Uimos has become an excellent book, "Juha Sipilä — The Director of the Centre", which explains these issues very carefully. Representative Harakan could also be in order to read this book. You can borrow it from me if you need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u16	Mr President! If any representative here succumbed to populism, it was Mr Räsänen. It was, in fact, a bottom line in the sense that all the motives were questioned by those asking questions about the ties and ownership of the ministers. I do not know whether the longing for a government is so severe that it will be difficult to break away from that role in the opposition. Let me remind you of what happened when Minister Lehtomäki announced his Winterfell holdings. Even then, the Minister's announcement met all the criteria of the law, but if it had not been backed up in Parliament's Chamber, what these significant holdings are, at least that time the whole Winterfell holding, possible ties, the flow of information and the ministerial role in relation to other shareholders, for example, would have been missed. And when I criticise the other KD representative here, I will thank him at the end of the day. Essayah for his part in paying tribute to Mrs Myllykoski. It is an extremely important matter today when we talk about the example of the good people where those who have that money invest their money: whether they invest in Finland, in Finnish companies, in Finnish investments, or whether they do so, as they do the unfortunate many money rich people who have quite a few Swedish-speaking surnames, that in the 1960s when they left Finland those who did not have the money leave today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u17	Mr President! I do not understand the purpose of this debate any longer. There has been no offence, there has been no reproach, and there is no accusation, as we have heard from the opposition. The opposition is arguing with each other and provoking each other. Maybe we could do this somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u18	Madam President! Certainly no one has claimed that the Prime Minister or anyone else has acted in a reprehensible way. It would, of course, be desirable to have this open debate on this issue, because it is the nature of the precedent in the direction that previous prime ministers have made more specific declarations than in this case. This is also an important question in that this ministerial activity can indeed affect a number of issues, such as the profitability of companies or many other factors, and it is important for society that there is also transparency in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u19	Mr President! I would also like to remind colleagues that this is not a matter of a declaration of property. As a minister, I myself have filled this out and I know — and so I am sure many others know through my own announcement here in Parliament — that there is a clear line here where you are trying to tell, and I have to tell you, the bonds that are relevant to your work. But that is not the point; this debate focuses far too much on who has what wealth and how each person has become rich or what investment advisers can be obtained — if investment advice is needed, it is indeed available at the School of Business, for example, if you feel you need it. As far as this tasteless comment by Mr Mustajärvi is concerned, it is clear that we can have a discussion about who will move where and who will invest where, but this kind of generalization, where a language group will be referred to, does not fit the authority of this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u20	Madam President! To Mr Terho and Mr Haglund: at least the speeches I have made in relation to this debate have shown that it is not a sin to be rich. And now that we are discussing these reporting obligations, it is good to broaden the scope of our wish, particularly here in the opposition – as I think Ojala-Niemelä rightly said – that the culture that the previous prime ministers have adopted should have continued. In that sense, the debate has been justified, and I do not know what is appropriate or not, but let us hope that the line itself on this transparency, which the Prime Minister, especially when he was in the Committee on Economic Affairs, followed, is the helicopter angle by which he always drew the impression that what is affecting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u21	Mr President! I do not in any way feel that I undermine the authority of this institution by exercising the right to speak which, according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure and, in fact, the Constitution, is guaranteed by Finnish democracy and the electoral system. But if today the Prime Minister talks above all about the strength of the example and the well-earned have told us how much income they are willing to calculate on their own — while the Finns are forced to take part in these so-called voluntary activities — then it is quite right to ask whether the Prime Minister has been sufficiently open when it comes to, for example, his investments and business investments: has he set an example by his own actions of how to support Finnish business life, invest in Finnish businesses, create new jobs? And if this is the case, why can it not be told to all the people by example?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u22	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u23	Mr President! The proposed amendment to the Constitution on the number of constituencies must be rejected. In the past, I have been opposed to the creation of excessive constituencies and I have been in favour of maintaining the current method of voting, whether my party has been in the government or in the opposition. The electoral method is so great in democracy that it should not be decided on the basis of the political forces involved, but only on the basis of a very broad consensus over several years. The original objective of the Katainen Government was to calculate the number of constituencies, the minimum number, to six. If such a change had been adopted, a simple majority in Parliament would then have been able to divide the whole country into six gigantic electoral districts. This objective was abandoned and it was decided to present the number of constituencies between 9 and 12, even without broad approval. Before last spring's elections on 9 March, John Koskinen, then President of the Constitutional Committee, admitted in his speech that the compromise model at borders 9-13 or 9-14 could have been more easily accepted than the government had proposed. After all, the ceiling proposed by the government at that time is the lower limit that is now in force. For example, sharing a large constituency in Uusimaa would mean that another constituency would at the same time have been forced to unite. I've told you before about the trips between my own constituency of Lapland. When on an election tour or between elections I want to meet people around my constituency, there will be a return trip from my home, for example, to Utsjoki Nuorgam 970 kilometers and a drive to Enontekio Kilpisjärvi 952 kilometers, and I do not even live on the southern border of my constituency. In the same way, very long journeys also come to Kemi, Simo, Pelloo, from different parts of Lapland. In both places and in all of these, I have, by the way, attended events as often as possible, at least once a year. I drive too much every year. I spend tens of thousands of kilometres on political work in Lapland. Indeed, I do not hope that more and more Members of Parliament will find themselves in the same situation and spend a significant part of their working time on the road. The most important thing would be to face the voters and to know the whole constituency properly. The regional representative must be aware of the conditions in his region. A well-functioning social order requires people to be able to rely on the expertise of their representatives on the situation and events in their region. Increasing the geographical size of the electoral districts will not contribute to this. By the way, there was a special situation for the conditions in the northernmost Lapland. By the way, they wanted to ensure that my native municipality Sodankylä and some of the northernmost municipalities in Finland formed their own constituency, from which only one representative was elected. This was not abandoned until the end of the 1930s, when it was considered that transport connections in Lapland had improved so well that one of Lapland's constituencies could be made. Knowledge and representativeness of the region were the most important. It should be important now. I can well understand the concern the Christian Democrats, for example, have had. If the small party has steady support across the country but not very high support anywhere, it is at risk of being very under-represented or even falling completely. The equalisation system could provide a solution to this problem. On the other hand, in our system, the idea of a MP who does not represent any particular constituency might seem rather foreign, so I do not support it. The rise of Finns in 12 years from one MP party to the second largest party in parliament also shows that even a small party can grow and pass if there is enough support. Compared to the international scene, our political system is stable and our electoral system has remained essentially the same throughout the history of Parliament. Let's keep going the way we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u24	Mr President! I was thinking about opening up some of my words in my coffin. Indeed, this proposal in many ways is very problematic. If we think that we are improving proportionality by losing regional representation, then we are at the edge of a fairly big problem — after we have improved the other problem. I personally believe that the electoral reform must also aim for regional representativeness, and while this proposal undoubtedly improves proportionality, it also significantly weakens regional representation when it is implemented as an instrument in practical policy decisions. However, I believe that, in the current electoral process, when relative electoral behaviour and regional representativeness have guaranteed a compromise in this constituency division, it is to be feared, in this new way, that voting turnout, especially in large future constituencies, may fall due to the significant risk of regional representation. Candidates may only be placed in large cities, and their sensibilities on other sides of the constituency are increasingly weak. Experience of people’s involvement and thus voting is also an important issue that needs to be taken into account. Yes, Parliament must be as representative as possible, and in that respect the proximity of citizens and political decision-makers is as important as the debate on proportionality. This question is undoubtedly also important from the point of view of Satakunta, which I represent here in Parliament. That is why I wanted to speak as a representative of the 100 people here: how big a constituency we can talk about so that the 100 people can still experience it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u25	Mr President! This is a constitutional amendment which would change the number of constituencies in the Constitution so that the current minimum number of constituencies would become the maximum threshold, i.e. the lower limit would be the upper limit. That's a pretty significant change. The background to this issue is in Jyrki Katainen's Government Programme, which, after several stages of negotiations, was written down in an unparalleled manner as follows: "The amendment of the Constitution will be made so that the maximum number of constituencies in continental Finland will be recorded between 6 and 12." This is a rather unusual record that it is stated unambiguously, without preparation, that there is a commitment to change the Constitution, to such a significant change. Well, on the basis of this entry, the Ministry of Justice then set up a parliamentary working party to prepare this bill. This work was quite interesting when, in principle, the task was to implement the record of the Government Programme. After all, it has already been said by the former Minister, who has become classical, that I am now making a decision, you have come up with the arguments. In other words, the task of the working group was to come up with a justification, and there was therefore little room for manoeuvre, but the working group concluded that the proposal was between 9 and 12, i.e. there was a slight relaxation. A change of constitution is always a big thing. It should not be done on the spur of the moment. For example, Professor Michael Hidén, a respected expert in constitutional law, said: "The system of parliamentary elections is so central to the democratic system as to make significant changes actually possible only on the basis of a broad and long-term consensus. Essential changes should not even in principle be regarded as matters that can be passed through Parliament on the basis of the individual Government coalition's own Government Programme." However, this has been attempted, but this is something that must be mirrored against many other things. After all, during the last parliamentary term, the number of constituencies was changed from 14 to 12 by combining Kyme constituency and Etelä-Savo constituency into a new constituency of South-East Finland and the constituencies of North Savo and North Karelia into a new constituency of Savo-Karjala. This reform was cut through without much consideration for the opinions of those affected by the reform. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated this about the amendment of the Constitution: 'Projects of constitutional change should not be undertaken on the basis of the political situation of the day, nor otherwise in such a way as to undermine the stability of constitutional solutions or the constitutional position as a basis for the constitutional and legal order. On the other hand, we must ensure that the Constitution gives a true picture of the system of state power and the basis for the individual's legal status. Any need for amendment of the Constitution must be carefully assessed and the necessary changes made on the basis of thorough preparation and a broad-based debate and consensus." This is not the way it has been prepared. The political evaluation carried out in the context of the Government Programme negotiations does not meet the requirements for a fundamental and careful assessment of the constitutional changes. Any interference with the criteria laid down in the constitution of the electoral system should be based on a broad political consensus and therefore this issue should be reconsidered in its entirety. Mr President! Our electoral system is based on two key principles: proportional representation and regional representation, which are secured by the division of constituencies. The reduction of electoral districts undoubtedly improves proportionality, but it weakens regional representativeness. Now that the perspective of regional representativeness has been ignored, the outcome is not sustainable. The definition of the current threshold as a new ceiling is not justified. That is why this proposal should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u26	Madam President! There are a number of problems which have already been raised in the debate with regard to the draft amendment that has been left to rest on the Constitution. I think it is very important that the size of the constituencies should not increase unduly. It is extremely important that regional representation in our Parliament remains as good as possible, because if the constituencies become very large, vague units, it is likely to alienate people from politics, it is likely to reduce voting turnout. Similarly, the problem with our electoral system at the moment is that the prices of election campaigns have grown quite high in places, and this in practice already raises the threshold for those who go into politics, who go to the Parliament. Similarly, as Mr Tölli, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, rightly pointed out, it is very unusual that attempts have been made to change such issues as the foundations of the democratic rule of law by a random majority government without going through a real debate on the whole political field. Mr President! It seems clear that when we deal with this matter in the Constitutional Committee, this draft amendment of the Constitution will be rejected. I understand the criticisms expressed about the proportionality of our electoral system and the problems that exist in the present system. I would like to throw out a proposal which has already been discussed that, for example, the equalisation system should come, or perhaps even a partial list election should be considered to improve this party-to-party proportionality.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u27	Madam Speaker! Indeed, it is a question of regional representativeness and all these issues, regional representativeness and equity. With a stick in the eye of the one who remembers the past, but these two things would have come true if the previous Parliament had adopted the change that the elected Parliament adopted at its final stage in 2007. It would have achieved both proportionality and regional representativeness. The equalisation system would have brought both of these things. It is indeed the case that the choice of voters is reduced. The opportunities for campaigning are limited when campaigning becomes more expensive. For example, in our constituency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u28	Mr President! Congressman Kivelä brought up the equalisation system. It is a good thing that it was abandoned during the last parliamentary term, because the system of places of compensation in the previous elections would have made Lapland more than four years ago a representative of Christian Democrats who received only 500 votes in Lapland. Is this really democracy? In reality, it is good that Lapland became elected representatives who represent a wider Lappish perspective and can act as representatives of this region.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u29	Madam Speaker! However, it should be borne in mind that the equalisation system would enable the new political movements, which are excluded from this proportionality in other decisions, to be represented, in their support, for the national parliaments and thus the will of the people for elections to be better realised. It is true, as Mrs Maijala said in her first speech, that this would be a new situation, that such a representative would not actually represent any constituency, but he would represent the cause of the candidate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u30	Madam President! Representative Majala raised one example there. I would like to draw another example which opens up this point of view. In the current electoral system, when we look at the last parliamentary elections, the central party received an average of 12,800 votes, 13700 for the Finns, 14600 for the assembly, 14400 for the SDP, 1,6800 for the Green Party, 17,600 for the Left, 21,000 for the Christian Democrats. Does this represent proportionality in this current electoral system, I ask only.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u31	Madam President! I was personally involved in that parliamentary task force, which, under the leadership of Lauri Tarast, was thinking about the electoral system between 2007 and 2009. That is where this equalisation system really came up and was brought here to Parliament. This would have been a system in which the representative would still have represented his constituency. Here, Mrs Maijala had the wrong idea that she did not represent the constituency. He would still have represented the constituency, and he would have given just the right number of MPs. How fair can we regard an electoral system that, in the last period, for example, brought six representatives to the Christian Democrats when we should have had eight representatives on the basis of our support? Of course, it is clear that there is no desire in the major parties to change this system, which will bring them extra extra extra extra extra extra extra seats, as it were, which do not even belong to them. In that sense, I must say that I acknowledge Mr Kivelä, who here has defended this and questioned it, which is why we have this kind of unfair electoral system in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u32	Madam President! It is precisely this that both things, proportionality and territoriality should be realised. Unfortunately, only one will come true. But in the same breath, it must be said that electoral alliances also distort the situation. Let's go back to history: in 1975 the Christian League received 10 MPs, received fewer votes than the SMP and the SMP received 2 MPs. Yes, these extremely difficult issues are, but we should have a system in which both proportionality and territoriality are genuinely and correctly realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u33	Mr President! When parties organize constituencies, there must always be the taste of planning, whoever did it. That is why I find it even more important than to perceive the way these constituencies sit in that area. In other words, in view of the future, the constituency should be as large as the other administrative districts are, and the provinces, in a certain way, represent it in the best way possible, when it is a province and is an constituency and the associated state administration as consistently as possible, sitting in that area. In this way, the interests that affect the regions are best realised, and it also motivates people to vote because they see that this has something to do with the development of its own province, its own region. In this sense, these electoral reforms should be viewed with extreme restraint and see precisely how they fit together in this overall context.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u34	Mr President! I think that we are now dealing with a really big issue, precisely as to how both proportionality and regional representativeness are to be achieved, and that is why this is an important issue. That is what I was talking about when I spoke, however, as a representative of the so-called great party. I also think that this is an important question for every representative of the province in this Chamber, how to achieve both proportionality and representativeness. Let me say again that it is not worth underestimating this importance of parliamentaryism. I did not raise it in my own speech just now, but I consider it reasonable that this parliamentary tradition should be continued. And it was not the previous government that violated this tradition, but was the party secretary, Jarmo Korhonen, who was involved in this work, in which the principle of parliamentary agreement was not respected. That is why I think it is important, while this whole issue is still being assessed in Parliament, to remember that these major reforms should be carried out on a parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u35	Madam President! Here we are talking about whether this is a question of proportionality or regionalism. I believe that this is a question of democracy. Finland is known as a country where there is a strong party system, where small parties also have the opportunity to act. It is precisely here that I hope that this country's tradition will be respected and that democracy in Finland will be better achieved. I personally believe that this law, which was being drafted in the previous period, should be brought forward during this period. Now it seems to me that this good work is falling apart this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u36	Mr President! I think we are all left in many ways to have this debate. Whether we were representatives of a small party or a large party, we will probably look at it from a different perspective, but also according to the region and region in which we come, whether we come from a large constituency or from a small constituency, our perspectives are very different. The central point here is that we all need and, above all, democracy needs so-called double representation, i.e. representativeness of both the party and the region, and above all it must be fostered, not just representativeness of the party. I do not think that this proposal should be adopted. In the case of Satakunta, for example, this would significantly undermine regional representativeness, and I believe that it is particularly important for democracy to be realised to have both,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u37	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u38	Madam President! As has already been said in this debate, The criticism of the fact that, unexpectedly and unexpectedly, electoral plans have appeared in the government programme four years ago is not true. These things have been taken away from my memory, at least since the 1970s, perhaps even before that, in different configurations, with different proposals, different outcomes. I think that the essential part of this debate should now be to remember that we are talking about a constituency fork, not individual constituencies. It is not the constituency of Lapland, it is not the constituency of Uusimaa or the constituency of Satakunta, but what maximum and minimum constituencies we can have under the Constitution. Well, then, what's the point? It is essential that the lower limit ensures regional representativeness. It is essential that the ceiling ensures ideological representativeness. It is also important that the fork is wide enough so that the Constitution does not need to be amended whenever it is necessary for individual electoral changes. What, then, are the other conditions? Well, it would be desirable for constituencies in general to be about the same size and that the differences between constituencies should not grow to an impossible size. On the other hand, there are no valid conditions for argument, for example, what is the job description of the MP or how expensive it is to campaign. Nor is there any realism to argue that the system has always been that way, it has always been that way and it should always be that way, in a situation where we know that in the last 100 years, when the system has remained quite unchanged, demographic changes have been enormous and our logistics, the way people live, has experienced a revolution in practice. Well, what would be a good fork in this situation? In my view, both the fork that is now in force and the new fork that has been presented will meet the basic conditions required for the constituency fork of the Constitution in general. We can both live with each other. I have no particular reason, either personally or on the basis of the arguments I have come to know, to support one over the other. It would be essential for us to be able to hold that debate separately from the debate on whether my place will now be in that particular constituency of mine if we make such a change and talk rationally about what the Constitution is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u39	Just now, we've had a pretty good debut. The idea is that we should now take a few speeches back and then look at the ingredients of the next debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u40	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Kontula. Indeed, this reform is being sought in order to make democracy more effective in the elections. In this context, it is not a question of whether it is necessarily the constituency of Lapland or the constituency of Satakunta or what constituency, but of principles. The aim is, therefore, to lower this latent threshold. The principle in Finland has generally been that a person’s voice must be equal regardless of where it is given. In this sense, I am somewhat surprised, for example, by Mrs Majala, who sees that in Lapland, which apparently has the highest threshold of sound in Finland, democracy would actually take place in the current model. This integration of constituencies in the future would balance these demographic differences in constituencies and bring more democracy. This proposal, which is now on the table, retains the essential features of the current electoral system, which is the difference between the performance that has previously been referred to here and the one in the middle. Twelve constituencies are the maximum, which is the same as the current number of constituencies. This is in view of the fact that Åland is a constituency of its own. Of course, I fully understand the point that has been made here, that electoral work is expensive and that these regional changes are difficult to make, and that regional representation is also important. As a neo-American in particular, I have also experienced this as a candidate that representation and electoral work in the region are indeed challenging, but without taking any further positions on it, I think it would be good to promote this issue in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u41	President! The constitutional amendment to the electoral reform on the change in the number of constituencies is to be welcomed. It could be said that any change in the constituency that changes the unfair situation before 2011 is absolutely to be welcomed. Concerns have been heard here, particularly from the mouth of the Centre but also from the socialists, who are already at this stage in the process of overturning this reform. Apparently, they want to have this former unfair method of election betonised. Mr Kontula, here, was at the heart of the matter when he made it very clear that we should not really think here, on a representative basis and from the point of view of our own constituency, or not to mention the fact that we are thinking about the miles driven or the euros spent on electoral work, but we must see that this is a major constitutional reform, so that this proportionality and then regional equality can be achieved. In the constituencies of the small population, this situation is most distorted, North Karelia as an example, where 16,5 % was that latent threshold, or what about the constituencies where there are six Members of Parliament? Basically, ideologically, parties are already being closed down and it is considered that not all parties even have the opportunity to be elected from that constituency. I therefore hope that, as this reform is now being brought to the finish line, we will really think a little further, not on our part, not on its own constituency, but on how important this is, so that equality between citizens can be achieved, in which every Finnish voice really has the same weight.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u42	Mr President! The electoral process has been a long process. Two parliamentary groups have been sitting in the 21st century to think about how it should be done and, even before that, there have been several calls for action. So it is not about any sudden issue that has risen in the last parliamentary term. Since the creation of constituencies, migration has led to major changes in the number of constituencies. This has led to excessive voting thresholds in small constituencies. For example, in the constituency of six representatives, the voting threshold has been as high as 15%. This has meant that the voters have had to engage in tactics. They have not been able to vote for whom they have wanted, if the threat has been that it has been wasted. I myself have campaigned in a small and larger constituency. The difference in the electoral field is very significant. The voter does not want to vote for a party whose chances of passing are non-existent, but in that case they will only choose the second or third best option, even if it is not in line with their own ideology. During the last parliamentary term, these elections were joined by constituencies. North Karelia and North Savo were merged, as were Etelä-Savo and Kymi. As a result, the sound threshold in Eastern Finland fell to a reasonable level, to just under 6 per cent in Savo-Karjala. There are general fears of unification, the same things that have now been heard in this Chamber: the fear that the number of representatives from smaller regions will decline, the representatives will only come from large cities in the future, and the cost of election campaigns will increase significantly. Now that the elections in the new constituencies have taken place, it can be said that these threats did not materialise. As in the past, there are representatives from both regions in a comprehensive way, the regional representativeness of the representatives is better within the constituency, and the costs of the election campaign did not get out of hand. For example, according to the advance announcements of campaign expenses passed through Savo-Karjala constituency, there are between EUR 13,000 and EUR 50,000, whereas four years ago the campaigns passed through North Karelia constituency were much larger. The lowest budget was EUR 15,000, and three of the campaign costs that went through were over 60,000, two of which were over 70,000 euros. In Satakunta, in particular, the threshold has increased more than is reasonable, and it certainly makes sense to merge there. The voting threshold in the constituency of Lapland is also disproportionate. However, in terms of the size of the region, it may not be the best way to combine it there. It is clear, however, that the electoral system still needs reform. Now the voice of the citizens is not as valuable in various parts of the country. It may be that, in reforming the electoral system, the integration of constituencies is not the best way to go, but it is one possible way and should not be ruled out, especially since the alternative model, the equalisation system, has not been here to promote it when it has been nominated. That is why the proposed constitutional amendment must be made. It gives us scope and opportunities to think about how to reform the electoral system without even forcing it to do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u43	Mr President! It must be said that if my hope rests somewhere now, then the vote of the People's Party and the Centre Party, the government parties, the MPs will be heard so that this will be taken seriously again. Democracy is not only a concept that can be achieved by combining regions, but must be seen as having a role to play in the interests of its own region. By the way, what could we resort to if not to the parliamentarians in our own province, who bring the province's own will to this Parliament for information? It must therefore be said that the bitter lime that the representative of the previous period Myllykoski had to swallow up the fact that this arrangement was brought to bear on your hope. The equalisation system would have been the solution, precisely the right solution in terms of democracy, to implement democracy for the whole country, not by starting to implement democracy in such a way that it takes place by combining regions and taking away the opportunity for the people of those regions to influence the way in which their voice is heard in the region and in the region from which the representative is elected. I very much hope that this issue will be dealt with on a sound basis, re-consideredly and with democracy at the forefront. It has been positive to read before the elections the will of the People’s Party and the People’s Party’s People’s Party that the matter should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u44	Mr President! This motion must be rejected. The present constituencies have a very strong identity. I represent the Satakunta. The vitality of a hundred people needs their own regional representation. The fundamental principle of the EU is also the fostering of close democracy. Close democracy is an important value. We should not reduce the number of constituencies.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u45	Mr President! The representatives of small parties here reproach us from the provinces and urge us to look at the reform from the perspective of the whole. In fact, I could also ask them to do the same. For example, Mr Kontula said that in Finland constituencies should be distributed evenly — unfortunately, in Finland the population does not live evenly throughout the country, and getting the same size of constituencies is idealistic but practically excluding people's everyday lives. The fact that we are raising examples of our own regions and telling them what the reform would mean in our own region is not a bad argument or, in some way, a minor argument. We have exactly the same arguments in support of our democracy and in our thoughts as, for example, the representatives of small parties here. In the case of Satakunta, for example, it is planned to divide the province and the constituency even in two, so that, for example, what happened in Eastern Finland during these elections could also take place for Satakunta. After all, there were messages from Eastern Finland that some of the voters had moved to a constituency where they no longer had the representatives they wanted to vote on. This can't happen. The identity of the region must not be broken by constituency division, and we, as representatives of the province, also have the right to raise those questions here, and I hope that you will not belittle those arguments when we consider the whole of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u46	Mr President! The threshold is something that is definitely a problem and must be said out loud. But even now, this proposal is leading to the idea that the only way to lower the threshold is to increase the constituency. The great constituency makes electoral work very time-consuming and very expensive in practice. The disparateness of its constituency makes it possible to have a number of magazines for everyone to put that advertisement on, and this will affect the fact that more and more large constituencies favour celebrities and those with a large electoral budget. I do not really believe that it is the deepest element of democracy and will then represent the whole spectrum of people in the future. The problem is rather that these voting thresholds are unequal, which leads us to the conclusion that one option would be to equalise the system in order to change the boundaries of the constituencies, and then, in a way, to think about the borders of the provinces so that they are more equal, so that we can overcome this problem of the threshold, the biggest problem, over and above this inequality. Then the limits will be the same for all. In a way, they are already, because we are only in one constituency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u47	Mr President! When the constituencies were created, they were of the same size across the country, not exactly the same size. But since then a lot of water has flowed in the Tornio River, in parts of the country people have been reduced, when they have gone after work to Sweden or moved to the villages of paint, while in parts of the country people have increased, quite literally. I represent the medium-sized party, and it has always been a little stingy since the elections when it compared the number of seats to that of the party’s national support. I have also been setting up a very small party and ending it five years later when the party fell from the parliament, even though national support would have given it two seats in the parliament. In an old democracy such as Finland, it is of absolute value that it is possible for new ideas, new parties, even easy to enter the parliament for citizens to judge, otherwise politics all too easily declines into old players' s snivelling games or old parties, as the Finns of Finland have well pointed out in their campaigns over the years. Of course, I understand why the great parties over the years have, as far as possible, kept the hidden threshold as high as possible. But, Mr President, what is said here today is not the will of the voters in the current Finnish electoral system, the will of the people is fully realised. That is why this proposal to amend the Constitution is not only justified but also necessary for democracy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u48	Mr President! This is an eternity of centuries, but it is a question of democracy when we talk about correcting the electoral system more proportionally. As several colleagues have said earlier, this should not be viewed as a 'own cow in a ditch' principle, i.e. from the tactical point of view of its own passing, its own party or its own constituency. It is not just a question of smaller parties and a hidden threshold for votes; it is a question of whether or not there will be proportionality in the elections and whether the votes of all citizens will be equal. There are many possible ways to resolve this problem. What is essential is that it is resolved, not time and again, to torpedo the very solution that has been reached in the last Parliament since the sweaty negotiations. The present Constitution gives greater importance to what is the greatest party as a result of the elections. What do we do when the party that received the most votes is not the largest party in Parliament? In this Parliament, too, the second largest party is only the third largest party in the number of votes, but the current constitution gives special status to the largest party, which was not the case during the previous constitutions, when the president played a much greater role in forming a government than at present. My guess is that if this proportionality of the electoral system cannot be corrected until we are in that situation — I do not know when — when the party that has received the most votes is not the largest party in Parliament, then this inadequate proportionality of our electoral system will rise in a whole new way. The second board of Lipponen was very close to finding a solution to this issue, but at that time it was rejected by the Party of the Party, and if I remember correctly, it was then the Party of the Party of the European People's Party. In the next elections, it suffered a little from this electoral system. Well, the Vanhanen-Kiviniemi government turned on a different solution that kept the former
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u51	Mr President! I could not help but ask for an answer when Mr Hassi used the word 'torpedo', 'torped' or 'torped' five times in his brief speech and went through and pointed his finger at almost everyone but the party he represented. I think it has been a huge value in Finnish society that we have parliamentaryly agreed, for example, on an electoral system, that regardless of the power relations in question, it has been possible to think together about what a system is that the entire nation can understand, in which the election result is transparent, reliable and resolved on election nights. Look, ladies and gentlemen, to the world, in which important countries this is not a matter of course. That is why it is more important than arguing that ‘to you—me’ would, in my opinion, return to the principle of parliamentaryism in the context of the reform of the electoral system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u52	Mr President! I very much hope that we will be able to turn a solution that will improve the proportionality of our electoral system as required by our current constitution, and that we will be able to do this in good cooperation with all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u53	Mr President! I have not yet been able to speak out today as Vice-President of the SDP, but I am doing so today because I do not think it is terribly sustainable and polite to each other to hold the fundamental debate as to whether electoral reforms should be carried out in parliamentary terms or in the name of every coalition. Today, I believe that this is the most important aspect of this debate. I am not going to argue that we too had nothing to do with it, because we were in the last government, but this long-term parliamentary principle was violated much earlier when, under the leadership of the centre, electoral reform had to be carried forward and the parliamentary outcome was not respected. That's how those eyes turned around around the time of Party Secretary Korhonen. Now it is quite pointless to discuss who, what, when and where, but should be discussing this whole issue, do we accept that each time it is up to Parliament to carry out the electoral reform itself, all of us together, or is it more important that every coalition of governments can make such big decisions on its own? I'll lean on the first one. I think it is important to hold on to parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u54	Mr President! I think there has been a lot of talk here about rationality, there has been talk of democracy, which would be the most democratic model, forgetting all the political groups. I believe that the most democratic model is the model that Mr Ross has already presented here: the constituency of the size of the province, which is linked to the state administration. Then there is a clear area for parliamentary and regional elections. I do not think that this debate is moving forward and that Finnish democracy, people's turnout, will not move forward if we accuse the Greens here — we accuse the Social Democrats, we accuse the former staff in the centre. Let us reject this draft amendment to the Constitution and consider together what is the best way to make Finnish politics open and interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u55	One last comment, Mr Mikkonen, and then we will go back to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u56	Mr President! It probably doesn't matter who has flogged these reforms, but that is what I wonder when these parliamentary working groups have been sitting around quite a few in the last few years and yet this reform has not moved forward. It has always happened that when one government has made a proposal, then the next government has rejected it in these cases, where it is required for two successive parliaments to approve it. It is a strange thing that, when we have tried to resolve this together in this Parliament, then there are no solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u57	Once upon a time. Reply, Mrs Feldt-Ranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Since I was a member of the last parliamentary committee in this country on electoral reform in 2008, it is necessary to point out to Mr Mikkos here that the next government did not flout the proposal of the parliamentary committee, but the next Parliament, after a very thorough discussion which took place not only in the Constitutional Committee but also in this Chamber, came to its senses and stated that, in that solution at the time, one-sidedly, without respecting this parliamentary tradition, a proposal was brought here from a rather narrow political angle. But when the whole parliament and the Constitutional Committee passed that committee report, the Parliament understood that it is not the way of Finland. That is why it is worth doing this in broad cooperation, and I hope, as I said earlier, that we will return to the path of parliamentary preparation. It's the only sustainable road.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u59	Mr President! As a member of this last parliamentary working group, it must now be borne in mind that the outcome of that group was not unanimous. That is why, at the very least, it was to be expected that, when political power changes in the elections, it will lead to some practical problems for the implementation of this reform. I'll answer Mr. Salonen if he's still out there. I do not underestimate the concern of the hundred people that the vote of the Satakunta is still in national politics. I was just saying that it is not the worry of the matter at hand. It is a different matter which is dealt with in different decisions in a different paragraph, as it were. What I said about the same size of the districts, I was talking about the general principles and ideals on which we should set the goals we are aiming for when we are doing some kind of reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u60	Mr President! It is clear that this constituency issue and system and its reform should be examined in each of the different parts of Finland. But we must also recognise that we have special areas, and Lapland is one of them. I asked for an answer when Essayah said understatedly that there was no discussion of driving kilometres. This is not the case, however, but it is clear that the unification of Lapland cannot be thought of in the west, the north or the east, because Sweden, Norway and Russia are coming against them. The only direction of unification is in the south, and if the Oulu district were to be merged, this area would represent 51 per cent of the country's surface area. The financial and mental resources and resources of each candidate are already included in that point, and it is also a matter of much more than those kilometres that have been driven. In my opinion, in the 2011 elections in Lapland, the Finns of Finland showed that this latent threshold was not an obstacle when there was sufficient support and they got one representative through.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u61	Mr President, in particular. We must agree with the speeches that have already been made on many occasions, both by Mr Kurvisen, Mr Hassi, Mr Jalose, Mr Kiuru, Mr Feldt-Ranna and Mr Ojala-Niemela; we are all very much in agreement when we have stressed the importance of democracy in this debate. Regionalism is part of it as a single party. As a citizen of the 100th century, I of course believe that the voters of the 100th century must also have the opportunity to influence the policy of the kingdom through their own representatives, but the most important thing is that we hope that further preparation in this Chamber will take place quickly and that this could now be concluded, so to speak, during this parliamentary term, so that it will not remain for the next government to be pushed forward and the next government negotiations to be considered. Now that together we are so moved by the consensus that this issue must be achieved, let us do the work and put this matter to the finish line and hope for and on the basis of parliamentary preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u62	Mr President! From a democratic point of view, it has been a travesty that we use the word 'democracy' in a situation in which we defend a reform which would be carried through with too narrow a view. It seems rather unusual that it would be a desire to support a process of electoral reform that is not of a parliamentary nature, and rightly considers it to be a democratic way of doing so. I think this is the biggest gem of this criticism here today in the debate. I myself am a member of the group — despite the fact that over the last few years we have had to content ourselves with attempts to bring electoral reforms before Parliament on a non-parliamentary basis, and I myself have had to be involved in the compromise — that is the central point — whether Parliament intends to support or not to support this type of development when this proposal is being supported here in Parliament. On that basis, I think it is important to bring back to the debate whether it is appropriate to go after a more comprehensive electoral reform that will rely on this longer parliamentary tradition. Of course, when we talk about a democratic electoral system, its biggest fruit is that the changes that are made should be prepared with a very broad, long-term consensus. We have abandoned this tradition and I think it is important to have a debate here on whether we should return to this parliamentary tradition. Then, Mr President, quite another question is that part of the group wants proportionality by reducing regional representativeness. And I think it is important that the representatives of the constituencies of the smaller regions in particular make their voices heard here in Parliament. No, we don't. There is no consensus in the Satakunta that we, as representatives of the province, are prepared to take the view that regional representativeness is not at all important. And that is why, President, I would like to say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u63	Mr President! That is right, Mr Kiuru, we must call for parliamentaryism and for a constitution. The Constitution is characterised by a deliberate and slow change. The Constitution should not be subordinate to political conjunctivities. It cannot be right that the range per seat is from around 2.5 to less than 3% in the constituency of Uusimaa, somewhere between 12% and 13%. This leads to unequal votes. In many small constituencies, the electorate has had to tactics with its voice: when there has been the impression that his first-favorite party is not in a position to get a MP through, a second-favorite is being voted, which is not exactly in the opinion of the electorate. However, it is equally necessary to allow the emergence of different and new political ideals. True Finns are a striking example of how indeed a small seed has become a major political force, but this has been a long road, and here too it has been a very difficult start. If the electoral system had been proportionate in the past,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u64	Mr President! The question is that proportionality is always out of regional representativeness and vice versa, or at least in most cases, and it is not in any way clear which of these would be more valuable and must therefore be balanced between them. Personally, I would like to be a voter in Pirkanland, that I would rather be represented by a Kymenlaakso left-wing ally than a Pirkanese co-operative, i.e. I will give it a relative priority. I do not know, as far as I understand it, that there is no study of how people on average think which of these two representativeness is most important to them. In the end, however, I find it quite strange to speak out in favour of regional representativeness, so that it does not matter so in relative terms, because the Finns also received representatives when they were big enough. The problem isn't that you get representatives when you're big, you get representatives when you're small. In our system, the diversity of views is achieved through the multiparty system, and it is a terrible loss in this system if some parties are clearly under-represented or are not represented at all in the parliament. A significant part of the new ideas come to this Chamber through smaller groups because they have the opportunity to deal with them when they are not yet mainstream, when they are not yet the affairs of the great masses. If these votes are left unheard or excluded by various electoral solutions, then less wise decisions will be made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u65	Mr President! Regionalism has been highlighted very well in today's debate, and thank you for that. And thank you, too, for the fact that there has been a great deal of support for the current form of the Constitution to remain the same. Will all parties then be present in the regions, even if there are no MPs there? Yes, they can be, because at least we work a lot across party boundaries in Lapland. Here in Parliament, all of us in Lapland meet regularly, discussing what is essential and important for Lapland at that time. At the same time, I know that representatives from many other regions will also meet and discuss these issues. As far as I am concerned, I have also experienced that it is also a matter of human election that is surprisingly much at stake in the parliamentary elections. At least I was said to have been voted by a number of left-wing allies, a member of the Coalition, from almost all parties, many have voted for me because they have hoped that they would enjoy Lapland as a lobbyist who talks about Lapland's affairs across party lines and considers them to be the most important thing. How, then, can these representatives of truly small parties perform and make their own voice heard? At least in Lapland we have good examples of how representatives of different parties, including the Greens, participate in municipal councils, are in joint municipal boards, the Board of the Federation of Lapland and in all these activities very actively, making their voices heard through it. That is how we Members of Parliament will also be able to bring their voices here and we have certainly brought the votes of these small parties and their presentations to this great Chamber for debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u66	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u67	Värderade Herr Talman! Denna ändring av Ålands självstyrelselag lämnades vilande över riksdagsval effecter att riksdage i december förra året godkände innehållet i lagförslaget enligt betankandet. Ändringen är av helt technicalk karaktä och syftar till att säkra att de uppgifter som enligt lagstiftningen om bekämpande av smittsamma sjukdomar hos pineskor och husdjur kan skotas av landskapsregeringen eller av någon anna myndighet som anges i landskapslag i stället för av kommunerna på Åland. Enligt självstyrelselagen hör älso- och sjukården samt veteriärväsendet, med några undantag, till landskapets lagstiftnings- och förvaltningsbehörighet. I dag har man överfört uppgifter inom detta område från de åländska kommunerna till landskapsmyndigheter. Men så som den aktuella bestammelsen är construerad i dag saknar landskapsmyndigheterna behörighet att lagstifta om och sköta uppgifter inom smittskyddet som rikslag-stiftningen ska skötas av kommunerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u68	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 5 June 2015. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u69	Mr President! The open, unified Nordic region is in the interests of all Nordic countries. Our natural co-operation area is located nearby, just next door in other Nordic countries. Work has its challenges. These include NATO countries, non-NATO countries, countries belonging to the Union and non-member countries, euro countries and crown countries, crown countries and republics. Yet much has been accomplished over time, but much remains to be done. We know and are aware, like the other Nordic countries, what we should do, we just don't seem to know how to do it, for example, in order to remove border barriers and ensure free movement without the risk of people falling out of, for example, all social security when moving from one country to another, moving from one country to another and working in another and then in another Nordic country. The removal of border barriers will create a more open and better North. Changing, shuttleping, studying and entrepreneurship must be possible across borders without risk of falling or obstacles due to the lack of clarity of laws and regulations. The limitless North would benefit everyone. In addition to the barriers to social security, there are obstacles to the treatment of pensioners, especially with regard to the taxation of returnees returning to their country of origin as a result of retirement. I have listened to three years in the Nordic Council when I was sitting on the claim that the person who earned his earnings-related pension in Sweden does not have double taxation when he moves to Finland to spend his retirement. Perhaps the word 'double taxation' is wrong; in any case, these people will pay a tax on their pension first on the net pension money coming to Sweden and then on to Finland. So two countries tax the same amount. In addition, the Nordic Council is currently — it cannot even be said that it is funny, even though it has become fun — a bottle-pant dispute. For example, Finland does not pay for a Swedish bottle of läskedricka bottle in Finland, the soda bottle must be returned to Sweden, as is the case with all other countries. Not even sustainable development, recycling or environmental care will help. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Nordic Council be developed and that its members' authority be enhanced. They must be able to report on Nordic joint projects that require national decisions directly to the ministers. This Chamber is, of course, the place where we can make impressive legislative changes and proposals to remove border barriers, but we must have the political will to do so, and the Council of Ministers must also be actively involved. Nordic cooperation has been seen as a choice of values, which is likely to pave the way for similar cooperation in neighbouring countries. Mr President! However, cooperation on values alone is not enough; concrete action is needed to remove the barriers to borders. If we really want to work in the open North of all Nordic countries, decisions must be taken not only in the Finnish Parliament but also in other Nordic parliaments. To date, these decisions, which lead not only to memos but also to measures, have not been taken. We last discussed here who in this government is responsible for the Nordic Council's affairs. According to the information I have received, it is in Minister Toivaka, just as it was in the previous government. It is now hoped that we will also be able to reach decisions. It is desirable that we should be able to make the North what we could all call our common country.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u70	Mr President, Herr Talman! Ladies and gentlemen! The information reserve Wikipedia defines Finland as a state in Northern Europe on the Baltic Sea and we belong to the Nordic countries and the European Union. Mr Tolppanen already referred to the debate we had on this issue last week, and then we made an assessment here of the Government Programme and its relationship with the Nordic Region. I went over the government programme again and there is a clear imbalance. The European Union has been mentioned dozens of times, almost a hundred times, there is also its own section on Union policy, while the Nordic countries have only once been mentioned in a narrow context of defence policy. However, as we know, from the point of view of citizens, businesses, organisations, cultural life, the whole of civil society, it is the Nordic countries that are the most important reference framework for us Finns. We also discussed who is the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, and Mr Tolppanen has also said to me that it is Mr Toivakka. There is no reason to spread rumours in Parliament, but I heard the rumour that Mr Toivakka would be switched to another minister, and it would have been very nice for someone from the government to answer that question. Why? Next week, right after the Midsummer, the Nordic Council presidency meets in Iceland, and I can only imagine how a strange situation like our esteemed colleague Erkki Tuomioja, our long-standing former Foreign Minister, will attend this meeting when we are asked who is the Nordic Minister for Cooperation in Finland, when we have to answer either that we do not know or we are not sure. And it is also very special when we are asked — on this very subject, we have had elections, we have a changed government — what is the policy of the new Finnish Government in relation to Nordic politics, especially when Finland will be the presidency of the Council of Ministers next year when we have to say that we do not know. We have no record of it; we have no line on it. I find this very difficult. It is also good to see that our policies, the strategic choices we make, are being monitored quite carefully in other Nordic countries at the moment. The decisions taken by the government, for example, on the reduction of development funds have been listed in other Nordic countries, and when next week, for the first time in this parliamentary term, we will be travelling to the tables where we meet our Nordic colleagues, this debate will inevitably be before all of us who attend those meetings. That is why it would be very desirable for the government parties to appeal to the government to hold a sort of debate about how we could signal that we consider this Nordic relationship important, that it is important to Finland, and that it has not been aware of the strategic choice of Finland not to register or fail to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u71	Mr President! As Mrs Feldt-Ranta has said here, the Government Programme does mention the Nordic Council and specifically mentions it as regards defence. And then, if it is mentioned on such an important issue in this political situation, which is currently taking place throughout northern Europe and also in the eastern region, Russia and Ukraine, it means that the Nordic Council is highly valued in the government. I very much hope that we will be able to further develop and improve this cooperation. It's been too many years since Ole Norrback. Nothing has been achieved, although there have been designated ministers, but border barriers have been and stayed there. Now we are removing barriers to defence, and before that, the government will certainly also designate the minister who will be responsible for defence this time. We all hope together that he will also be committed to these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u72	Mr President! In order for no one here to rewrite history wrongly, it was necessary to intervene when Mr Tolppanen said that nothing has been achieved. Every year I have been involved in dealing with and adopting lists that have found that dozens of border barriers have been removed, almost a hundred, as a result of the determined work that has been done in the Nordic Council and national parliaments over the last eight years. The fact that these border barriers are created every week, every month, is a fact. It should not be the conclusion that nothing has been done and nothing needs to be done, but that this work will never stop and must be pursued with determination. But it is wrong to say when we have removed almost a hundred border barriers that nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u73	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u74	Mr President! A lot of good themes have been discussed in the Nordic Council, and I would like to raise the issues of health care and health care, which, among other things, must have been presented by Minister Paula Risikko. Among other things, the issue of antibiotic resistance was discussed, and I still see it as a very important theme in the future. I myself am a new member of the Nordic Council and I think it is important that these themes continue to be discussed there. The dignity of the Baltic Sea and the continuing threat of environmental disasters to the Baltic Sea have also been highlighted. The Baltic Sea is a pearl of Helsinki, but it is also a pearl of all the Nordic countries. I do not know how the Nordic Council and committees will then address issues such as health care and care such as hospice care. It is also a very important issue on a global scale, and there has been a lot of talk about what practices and ways of dealing with it are. I could imagine that it would also be nice to see how we deal with these issues in the Nordic countries, and perhaps at some point there may also be themes there.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u75	Mr President! For four years I have been actively involved in Nordic cooperation, both in committee meetings and also in sessions. This report from the Finnish committee last year gives a very comprehensive report on Nordic cooperation and its necessity. The main themes of the Nordic Council last year were, among other things, the Nordic labour market and the more effective promotion of Nordic EU cooperation. In recent years, cooperation in the fields of foreign, defence and security policy in the Nordic countries has deepened and expanded. A concrete example of close cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy was the participation of Finland and Sweden in the Iceland Air Meet 2014 air traffic control exercise carried out in connection with the surveillance of Icelandic airspace in January to February last year. Very topical issues have always been discussed at meetings and meetings. As a result, the situation in Ukraine became an extra topic at the April theme session. Nordic cooperation has always raised concerns about relations between the Nordic countries and Russia. In particular, this concern has arisen recently. Mr President! Cooperation will also take place on social and health issues and seek common objectives and practices. The report on Nordic cooperation in the future of health was completed last summer by Bo Könberg, Sweden. The report and its recommendations can be seen as the Stoltenberg report on health, which will pave the way for future goals in cooperation with the health sector. The report was heard and discussed at the Stockholm meeting in October. Mr President! The members of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland have also taken an active position on removing border barriers. Last year, the new Border Obstacle Council began its operations, to which the Finnish representative was appointed Sten Palmgren, the Legal Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice. The Council's objective is that each country chooses between 3 and 5 border barriers each year, which would be resolved once and for all. The Finnish list includes the Finnish four-month rule, Nordic building standards, tax issues, employment and sickness pension issues and preventive work in legislation. As has just been heard in the debate, there may be a great deal of contradiction or opinions about what has been removed from these border barriers. The so-called double taxation of pensions still speaks to many Finns, and there is no clear guidance on this matter. According to my feedback, tax offices still have very different interpretations of the taxation of these pensions. Mr President! Members of the delegation will also have the opportunity to ask written questions to ministers. I myself tabled two written questions at the Stockholm session last October. In the second, I asked the governments of Finland, Sweden and Denmark how Nordic EU countries could jointly influence the decision of the EU Commission, in which Nordic farmers could receive support to compensate for the financial losses caused by sanctions, mainly in the case of Russian sanctions. Another question I asked about family care to the Nordic governments: What concrete measures could we take in the Nordic countries to improve the conditions for this important work and, for example, whether the criteria for informal care work could be harmonised and whether informal care work could be defined as a form of care that would also be taken into account in the social welfare and health training programme? Mr President! In the Nordic Council, there is a strong emphasis on issues when we act in a united way, and this weight also emerges on a European scale. I would therefore like to welcome many of these new representatives to Nordic cooperation. Action between members is immediate, and it is very nice. I would also like to thank the excellent officials of the international department of Parliament, who have inspired us in this Nordic cooperation by their own example and diligence. Special thanks to Kristina, Paula and Kar, who have already retired or are about to retire. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u76	Madam President! In this speech, I will confine myself to one important theme, which was, however, prominent in the work of the Nordic Council Committee on Culture and Education. We are talking about cooperation in sport and sport, which, however, is ignored in this report by just one sentence. The topic is the latest in the PN forums, but there is a great interest in cooperation in all Nordic countries. The reasons for this are also sustainable: our values for sport are similar to the standards that apply to them. However, they can be used and highlighted both in the development of mutual cooperation in sport and in our activities in international sports communities. The issues in which we Nordic countries could better organise and profile together are sufficient: preventing doping, betting and match-playing, issues relating to the sustainability of international sporting events and the inclusion of sport are issues in which we all have a lot to offer and also a lot of influence. The interesting question raised in the Committee on Education and Culture last autumn was, among other things, how the Nordic countries, together, could improve the transparency of the process of awarding major prize contests and also better take environmental and human rights issues into account. We hope that this debate will continue during the new PN delegation. Madam President! There is also a plan for Nordic cooperation in the field of physical activity. In all Nordic countries, the immobility of certain population groups, especially children and young people, is a major individual but also a public health challenge in the future. On the other hand, every Nordic country has also looked for good solutions and has also wanted to copy them in different countries. For example, the record of the current Sipilä government, which wants an hour more exercise for children and young people, has a Danish background. The exercise reform carried out there has been reflected in the better physical condition of children and in better learning outcomes. In addition, if we want a Nordic sports culture, we can also develop a new export product. For example, Britain has already signed an agreement with India worth hundreds of millions of euros to export its knowledge of sport and health to India. I believe that we in the Nordic countries will also succeed in such a way. Mr President! Finland will lead the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers next year. One of the themes in which we Finns should profile this season is specifically sports and sports. The Nordic sports and sports circles have featured the organisation of joint Nordic sports and sports events, among other things from the above themes. Let us hope that we also have the courage to take up this idea here.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u77	Mr President! Good speeches have been heard here. It has been a pleasure to hear that, among other things, family care has been raised in the Nordic Council. I have to correct that speech that I have just made: when I mentioned this antibiotic resistance, of course, the ministers Laura Räty and Susanna Huovinen in the Council have been there, who have raised this antibiotic resistance, and I have just misquoted the name of the Minister, and indeed considered it essential for Finland to raise this antibiotic resistance. I would also be interested, for example, in the situation of tuberculosis in the Nordic countries. After all, we sometimes get these cases of tuberculosis in Finland, although it is a disease that has already been folded, but it is very prevalent in Eastern Europe. In what way has this issue and theme been raised there in the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u78	Mr President! I was involved in the activities of the Nordic Council during the last parliamentary term, four years. It was very rewarding and it increased my understanding of Nordic affairs very much, and I came to understand very much how things are done in neighbouring countries, and I believe that it will be of benefit to me as well as other participants in the Nordic Council as they work in our own Parliament. This activity report gives a good account of what has been discussed and taken forward. I was in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and there were a number of issues that were also important to us, because these environmental and natural resources issues really do not respect the borders of the state. Personally, I've been touched by the beasts. They just cross borders, no one's looking after them. We are discussing how bear issues, how wolves have been handled in neighbouring countries and how we are doing those things again, which is really rewarding for us too. We were talking about alien varieties. There was a great deal of discussion about how to prevent the spread of raccoon dog to Sweden by means of measures in Finland, i.e. those measures have been taken on the Finnish side, which would be of benefit to the Swedes. Then the goose hunting issue is important for Finns, but we cannot do it at the moment, because in southern Sweden so many of them are killed while they are visiting. So a lot of things that you might not think about, things that are very important to us. But then the development of the job is that I personally wish that the activities there in the Nordic Council would be more concrete and that we could actually achieve more results. There's too much going on between the two of us just to have a conversation. Finally, I would like to see this debate not just in Danish, because at least I find it very difficult to understand that language.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u79	The conversation is... — Oh, well, there was still a representative of Feldt-Ranta. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u80	Thank you, Madam President. I asked to speak again because I wanted to say something at the end: there are a lot of important things that have been raised here from a very large number of sectors, such as antibiotic resistance, sport, informal care, raccoon dogs and so on and so on, but what may not have been said out loud yet, which I think is important to say out loud when we discuss the Nordic Council's activities, is that, in addition to these individual sectoral issues, I think perhaps the greatest value in this Nordic cooperation is that we have joint opportunities to meet between the Nordic countries and to make a major assessment of the situation, for example, in terms of foreign and security policy, which is no longer taboo in the Nordic context. It is also good to remember that for the first time, when a major analysis was carried out of the economic downturn in 2008, it was carried out in the Finnish Parliament in connection with the Nordic Council meeting, where this joint observation was made by the then prime ministers. So that it is small things, but also this huge social analysis, and it must also be done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u81	Madam President! About the dismantling of border barriers. I would like to express the wish that we in the Finnish Parliament, in Parliament, in all the committees, take this border barrier issue more seriously, put forward concrete issues here, how border barrier issues can be dismantled and taken forward, as that would enable us to get stronger Nordic countries, and thus also Finland to benefit from this kind of synergistic advantage. So we're really talking about breaking down border barriers, not just talking.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u82	I think everyone's been talking now.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u83	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u84	Mr President! While waiting for my speech, I have found the answer to the question to which I have been looking for an answer as to why, behind the President, there is not a big bell, like the normal Chamber of Parliament, for all the representatives to see. I understand that now, because waiting here may go as far as I can before the speech is granted, given the order of day, it would seem even longer if it were measured by the clock. It is, of course, always interesting to hear colleagues speak on important issues. This question, which the President's gracious contribution is now intended to present, I would like to begin by saying that the importance of the European Security and Cooperation Conference and of that concept, which has since become an organisation, for the whole of Finland's foreign policy, is exceptionally great, central and important. The OSCE is a big issue for Finland's foreign policy; it is a huge issue that has a key impact on Finland's international position, but of course it has also been able to make an impact on the international community in such a way that Finland has been able to contribute significantly to international development. The OSCE in this respect is a major symbolic issue for Finland, and its practical value in this respect is, of course, incalculable. We are currently preparing for the international community to meet after a 40-year break at the beginning of July in Finlandia for the first time since the establishment of the OSCE, which, thanks to the OSCE, has been drawn into the awareness of the entire international community in the most positive way about Finland and Helsinki. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the beginning of July is not a formal assembly, but of course it also sends the signal to the world of the significance of the OSCE and the OSCE for the development of the international community. This is, of course, highlighted by the fact that one of the founding Member States of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Russia, has violated the most sacred and central principles of the OSCE. After all, in Helsinki 75 C.E., ten principles were agreed in three baskets, which in one way could be described as good table manners for relations between European countries. Those principles have now been in bad oxygen since the Crimean custody of Russia in Ukraine and the military action in the eastern part of Ukraine is still going on in the most repulsive way. This means that the OSCE is also facing a major challenge, because the OSCE is an organisation which is the most central of all other international organisations that affect the crisis in Ukraine and which is trying to make a positive contribution to the resolution of the crisis in Ukraine. This is a serious challenge for Europe in the light of history. All the positive developments that we as Europeans believed in and built up between our nations and peoples, our faith in the future, are currently under test. It is being put to the test because its principles have been sidelined by Russia. The crisis in Ukraine is creating heavy clouds for a bright European future at the moment. At the same time, we should be able to reform the entire OSCE system, and this is, of course, extremely difficult in the light of a situation such as the Ukraine crisis. The security situation in Europe is more serious than it has been for decades. It is also more serious in our own security environment, as the new government's government programme rightly states. However, as an organisation, the OSCE is the only one who in practice is able to influence the positive development of conditions in Ukraine, both in the face of its civilian operation and in the face of a war on the east side of Ukraine. This OSCE's own reform work is being carried out because, however, the OSCE's efforts are not sufficient when Europe is threatened by such serious crises. The OSCE should therefore be able to be reformed internally. In this respect, we are talking about the Helsinki+40 targets, which are being implemented at both intergovernmental and interparliamentary level. It is a large number of measures that are being prepared today. Unfortunately, for them too, those who are, as it were, underdogs after violating the essential principles of the OSCE are also reluctant to adopt the reform measures that would further improve the effectiveness and significance of the OSCE at present. In Ukraine, for example, the OSCE is currently carrying out a massive mission of between 500 and 600 monitors, a civilian operation aimed at helping Ukrainian society to walk on its own feet, to make it a healthy and functioning society. At the same time, we are monitoring how the principles and practical application of the cease-fire agreement, which has proved to be extremely fragile, can be implemented. This is a difficult task, because today, both separatists and others have undermined the security situation in Ukraine in a way that also threatens the external security of these monitoring people from the various European countries involved in the civilian operation. There are also many other projects there now, without going through more than a large number of them, about a dozen with all the OSCE's efforts to contribute to the situation in Ukraine. The OSCE is based on interaction and cooperation. The emphasis on dialogue is vital. With reference to yesterday's debate on Gold Beach, it was clearly seen as a principle that Europe should be built by means of dialogue and that we should try to bring all the parties to the same table, as extremely difficult as it is. In this respect, the OSCE is working with its best efficiency, but it would not be bad if that effectiveness could be significantly improved. There is also much to be said on the parliamentary side. Let us consider, for example, the circumstances in the Donbass region, both in Donetsk and in Luhansk, and the opportunities that the OSCE would offer, for example, for a constitutional reform or electoral system or for a credible process of decentralization in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the cease-fire is not holding. In this respect, greater credibility should be given to the implementation of the ceasefire, which should not exclude, in the longer term, the possibility of setting up some sort of peacekeeping operation. It is important that the intergovernmental side and the interparliamentary side act in this respect in a credible and strong way, as they are trying to do more at this moment, as I myself, as President of the General Assembly, have tried to make a significant contribution over the past year. I am not going through the issues of election observation and many others with which the OSCE is trying to push the situation in Ukraine forward, but I say that 40 years from Helsinki to this day means that the OSCE, in a way, needs a new generation. We must achieve OSCE 2.0, which will help Europe not to divide itself strongly into two hostile and opposite camps, in line with the legacy of the Second World War. Of course, the OSCE does not live its own life, but it is a reflection of international political reality, but in this reality there is now a deep concern about the division of Europe. We should be able to act in a way that brings Russia into contact with the rest of Europe in a constructive and positive way. But someone has to change in this game, and that is the fact that Russia is moving back to respect the OSCE principles, the principles it has accepted and signed, and also to implement the Minsk cease-fire agreement's views aimed at guaranteeing the future of the Ukrainian people under more favourable conditions, but also at preventing the whole European security system from falling on the path that history warns us of.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u85	Madam President! The first paragraph of this report mentions the crisis in Ukraine, and this, as well as the presentation by President Kanerva, shows the central impact of the events in Ukraine on the OSCE's activities last year. It is good that President Niinistö is in Moscow to see President Putin, and it is good that efforts are being made to maintain and conduct the dialogue. However, it must be clearly stated that Russia's action has caused the crisis in Ukraine. Russia has violated its agreements, including the Etyk Treaty, which was signed by its predecessor Soviet Union, Russia has attacked its neighbouring Ukraine, took over the Crimean Peninsula and is currently at war in Eastern Ukraine. At the same time, Russian propaganda lies to its own and to the rest of the world and even stirs up a kind of war psychology in Russia, where in propaganda NATO and the West are any day attacking Russia under the leadership of various fascists and Nazis. Then it is good for the Russian leadership to convince with the other hand that the concerns of the Baltic States or Eastern Europe about Russia are unfounded. It should not be surprised that such concerns exist when we look not at what the Russian leadership is saying but at what they are doing. It is not good that more weapons are being brought here in our neighbourhood, now NATO and then Russia again, but it is perfectly understandable what is known about Russian policy in the Baltic countries and in the Eastern European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u86	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the Finnish OSCE delegation for their active work and, in particular, for the very important work done by Mrs Kanerva during these difficult times as President of the General Assembly, and I hope that this work will continue. So the world's eyes turn here when Helsinki and Finland will have the pleasure and the honour of serving next month as the venue for the Parliamentary Assembly. After all, Finland is the first Member State to hold a sitting for the second time. Understandably, there are many expectations and also great interest in this forthcoming meeting. Mr Kanerva has already raised the issue of the participation of this Russian OSCE delegation, and in particular there are many speculations about the participation of this delegation. After all, the Head of Delegation is the President of the Russian Duma, who, like a few other members of the Russian delegation, is on the EU sanctions list. In this regard, I would have asked Mr Kanerva, whether there is official information that can be said publicly, about a possible missed meeting of the Russian OSCE delegation or a corresponding participation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u87	Chairman! I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Kanerva for her analytical report. As he said, the crisis in Ukraine has shocked the foundations of the whole European security environment, and unfortunately Finland too has had to look openly at its own position here. When, ten years ago, we thought that we Europeans would not be threatened by any threat of war here, unfortunately — but fortunately, on the other hand — the situation has now opened our eyes too. We must continue to play the role of peacemaker and mediator, but I would stress that, if necessary, decisions will also be made that safeguard the security policy position of our own country and strengthen our position at the forefront of the Western world.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u88	Mr President! The OSCE principles and practical policy documents include an obligation for each Member State hosting the meeting to ensure that all 57 Member States are invited. Of course, this is what Finland has done and hosted at the beginning of July, and the invitation has therefore also gone to Russia, and Russia has a delegation that they have announced. It has now become apparent that there are people on the boycott of the European Union in the Russian delegation. The names of these people have come to our attention in June. Of course, we have not been able to know in advance who is being sent to Helsinki as representatives of the Russian Duma. But once this has been discovered that there are such persons on the list, then, of course, different diplomatic means have been used to see how a solution can be found to the problem. The big principle and the first rule is, of course, that, in accordance with its basic nature, the OSCE represents the integrity, interaction and forum for discussion in Europe, and it is therefore important that it should take place not only at the highest possible level, but also in the circumstances which enable all parties to participate in the Ukrainian crisis, as in the case of Ukraine, as in the case of the rest of the world, and in the dozens of other issues that are to be addressed at the OSCE annual meeting in Helsinki. If there is no solution to this issue, it will not of course lead to the Russian delegation being left out, but it might mean that some members of the Russian delegation would be replaced by other members. But hopefully a positive solution will be found, and I believe that the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs will make every effort here to achieve a decent result in accordance with the OSCE's best principles.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u89	Mr President! At the beginning of the last parliamentary term in 2011, I worked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I remember thinking about the upcoming +40-Ety conference in Helsinki in 2015 and wondering what the role of the OSCE is today. Now, as we know during the last parliamentary term, the role of the OSCE has become extremely important in this development. It is strange in some way that Finland, a very small country, has had a huge role to play in the OSCE at the time because of President Kekkonen's very important role, and now we have this – just when the OSCE has a big role to play – in the form of Mr Kanerva. Finland is a more significant influence. But, Mr President, I would like to ask President Kanerva in this connection: When it is mentioned here in the report that after the vote the General Assembly has agreed that Crimea is not to be recognised as being annexed to Russia, Russia was, of course, opposed to such a resolution, but was there anyone else there, and what is the current situation with regard to the status of Crimea in view of the large number of OSCE Member States? Are there those who are moving towards recognition of the annexation of Crimea, or is Russia alone in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u90	Mr President! It's just like it was before. It is the same as it was in Baku last summer, when this resolution was actually voted on in the General Assembly, and I assume that this will certainly happen again today. And it has also appeared in practice in the way that Russia, in February of last February, that is to say in February of this year, to the normal annual winter meeting in Vienna at that time, announced a person as a member of its delegation, who had been appointed to the Russian delegation from Crimea, that is to say, from the conquered region. I myself was in Moscow in those days, and I was able to meet with President Naryškin with his face and I appealed to him at that time not to bring a representative to Vienna who has been elected to your delegation from Crimea, because the other delegations will not accept a model in which you are represented by a person from an illegal territory. President! Mr Naryškin took this point into account, and Russia did not bring this person to the Vienna meeting, he missed that delegation, and I welcomed this gesture that these realities were taken into account on the Russian side, because it would have been quite certain — as Mr Kantola well knows — that the vote would have ended very badly for Russia, and of course it would not have been worthwhile for them to take such a loss of authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u91	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 12 June 2015 and the debate will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u92	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament's Ombudsman's report helps to demonstrate in general terms that we live in the rule of law. This is not the case throughout the world. The Ombudsman Institute — an expression by which I myself have been familiar with it during the interim international administration in Kosovo — is therefore important for the monitoring and implementation of fundamental and human rights. The Parliamentary Ombudsman's report states that Article 20 of the Constitution contains two components: firstly, everyone's responsibility for nature, the environment and cultural heritage, and secondly, the duty of the public authorities to seek to safeguard everyone's right to a healthy environment and to have an impact on decision-making about their environment. Mr President! I would like to take, for example, the inhabitants of Espoo and Kirkkonummi, who live in the vicinity of one of the largest landfills in the Nordic countries and its adjacent area of mining and crushing, where Rudus Oy, a foreign-owned company, operates among others. In accordance with Article 20 of the Constitution, these local residents too have been given the opportunity to influence their decision-making on their habitat, with various consultations, for example, in the EIA processes, but the problem is that the experience of local residents with activities detrimental to the health and safety of their habitats has not been taken into account in practice. No municipal water supply has been provided for properties in high-risk areas, although the wells of properties on the Mustanpurontie in Espoo, for example, in the vicinity of the Kulmakormi mining and crushing site, have been damaged. Mr President! Last week I also had time to watch the Yva event at Högberget in Espoo for a while. There, too, local residents were concerned about the adverse effects of planned massive excavations and crushings, even in the pursuit of their livelihoods. One horse farmer told me that his stable is only a few hundred metres away from the planned mining site. His horse stable provides services to various groups of disabled people, among other things. It goes without saying that his livelihood would end in the first explosion. Local residents feel that their opinion does not affect the decision, but that even 45 years of mining and crushing begin in the vicinity of the settlement. Mr President! We must therefore ensure that the spirit of Article 20 of the Constitution is actually realised and that people can influence decisions on their environment and that hearings are not just a formal stage of the process without any real impact on the realisation of a healthy and safe environment. The Government is committed to promoting health and well-being and reducing inequalities. On the basis of the citizen's feedback I have received, I am convinced that the inhabitants, whose neighbours are massive quarry sites and an example of the Ämmassuo landfill with dozens of different projects, are in an unequal position without proper water management and more closely monitored compliance with the environmental permit conditions for the projects. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Parliament's Ombudsman for his report for 2014.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u93	Madam President! Ombudsman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today, it is often found that there is not such a small issue that it is not an important issue of fundamental and human rights. This has been the case with the increasingly strict or broader interpretation of the basic rights provisions of the Finnish Constitution as well as the broader interpretation of human rights. This has been going on for years, but in my opinion it has accelerated especially in recent years. Just as a daily example that everything is starting to be problematic from a basic and human rights perspective, I would just mention that just a few days ago a couple of leading Finnish constitutional experts found a whole lot of problematic issues in the new government programme from a fundamental and human rights perspective. In such an interpretation, in which the Constitutional Committee is made to decide whether to make certain necessary savings in the state economy, whether to test basic income on a regional basis, whether or not to complain about decisions taken by the authorities forward and so on, in such tightening and tightening interpretations, it is ultimately a question, in my opinion, of whether the Finnish Parliament elected by the people in Finland decides on legislation, or whether to decide whether it is actually a group of constitutional experts who, in accordance with the positions of which the lay members of the Constitutional Committee have to decide these matters. Because of this development, I have taken on a role, among other things, here in Parliament's toilet and sometimes in other forums to critically assess this development. This was the case, for example, when, in connection with the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report a couple of years ago, I criticised the fact that the Parliamentary Ombudsman's office had considered that the ban on photography in Ateneum was problematic from a constitutional point of view and that the then Ministry of Education had to report to the Ombudsman's office on the steps it has taken to remedy such non-constitutionalism. Why was the ban on photography in Ateneum problematic in terms of fundamental rights? Well, because the underlying theory is, of course, that all fundamental rights restrictions must be regulated at the level of the law, and when the Ateneum ban on photography was interpreted as a fundamental right restriction, it was considered whether this significant restriction of fundamental rights was provided for at the level of the law. The article was not found, so the matter was problematic, even though the grounds for this ban on photography were, in itself, entirely sustainable, also from the point of view of the Ombudsman's office. To oppose this thinking, I pointed out that there was also a ban on photography in the lower lobby of the office of the Ombudsman at the time, i.e. in the lobby of the Parliament building. And there was a perfectly lasting basis for that ban because it was designed to protect privacy in situations where guests’ bags are illuminated. However, although there was a lasting justification for this ban on photography, this theory is that it was certainly a significant violation of fundamental and human rights, since neither the law on parliamentary security nor the law on the office of the Ombudsman of the Parliament had any legal provision that there should be a ban on photography in the lower lobby of the Parliamentary Ombudsman's office. The second approach to the whole of this problem would, in my view, have been provided by such a much more reasonable interpretation, which follows the common sense of peasants, that the ban on photography at Ateneum is not a fundamental right restriction at all, but a situation in which a person voluntarily goes to an art exhibition or comes to a space and a kind of concrete agreement arises from my becoming a spectator of your art performance and, at the same time, I undertake to comply with such normal rules as those governing such exhibition space. Madam President! With a little of this thought that everything must be tackled and that everything must be seen as a fundamental right problem, I considered from this report, on page 144, the decision by the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Sakslin, that the short period of service for professional athletes is problematic in terms of equal treatment. Well, of course you can say that it is problematic in terms of equal treatment, because such a lightened military service has been available specifically to professional athletes but not to others. This is obviously decades old practice, I would imagine. And the Assistant Ombudsman here came to the conclusion that this is contrary to the Constitution, is it now, in Article 6, the rule of equality. In my mind, this statement by the Deputy Ombudsman has led to a question as to the line between, on the one hand, undue indifference and, on the other hand, proper interference with the issue of equality. If the Assistant Ombudsman considers that a short period of service for professional athletes is problematic in terms of equal treatment, as can well be said, is it not, on a much better basis, a problem in terms of equality, that women are completely exempt from military service? In other words, if this difference in treatment of military personnel with an athlete’s background is problematic, it is problematic in terms of equality that the Deputy Ombudsman should intervene in such a lack of constitutionalism and ask the Ministry of Defence to state by 29 May 2015 what measures the matter has given rise to, how is it possible that the Ombudsman or Deputy Ombudsman Sakslin has not considered the question whether the release of women from military service is potentially problematic in terms of equality? Personally, I would easily conclude that if equality were to be interpreted in this context too, this lighter military service for professional athletes would be much smaller than the fact that about half of the population is completely exempt from military service. I do not, therefore, think so, but I would not have taken the form of a lighter service for professional athletes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u94	Madam President! From the point of view of the human rights situation, Finland’s national starting points for accession to the European Union were quite good. However, as a result of membership of the European Union, Finland has also had to assess its own practices and legislation more closely from a human rights point of view. We have had something to improve on our own, and we still have. The Ombudsman's 2014 report strongly highlights the exceptionally strong role of the Ombudsman in the Finnish system as guardian of fundamental and human rights. The core of the mission of the Ombudsman institution, which celebrated its 95th anniversary last year, has been the so-called law enforcement. This has meant monitoring the activities of the authorities. As a result of the 1995 reform of fundamental rights, this judicial review has been accompanied by the role of the Ombudsman to monitor the implementation of fundamental and human rights, and I am sure that this extension is partly accompanied by the recent criticisms of Mr Zyskowicz. The report shows how this change has affected the Ombudsman’s activities. "An inquiry into the complaint did not constitute an assessment of whether At present, all issues will be assessed in addition to whether the Authority, acting in some other way, could have been better able to contribute to the realisation of fundamental and human rights." I believe that extending the task in this way has been a good reform. It gives the Ombudsman a broad mandate to act as a reformer and developer in society in the field of fundamental and human rights. As the Ombudsman states in his report: "I do not know of another ombudsman institution where the implementation and promotion of fundamental and human rights is as strong as in Finland, both in law and in practice." Mr President! As in the previous report, the report summarises the ten main problems of basic and human rights in Finland. Problems are all the same. This list is an important working list for someone who just started. I'm a pig to the government. There are still shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly. There has been no material correction. Weaknesses include hygiene, nutrition, rehabilitation and outdoor activities. The over-medicated treatment for the elderly replaces — still seems to be — undersized staff. There are still shortcomings in child protection and handling. In part, it is a question of excessive workload, staff turnover and inadequate training. The supervision of child welfare services is insufficient. It has also been stated and discussed in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the time for dealing with child protection cases in certain courts, or when they are circumvented from there, is far too long in some cases, in the interests of the child, that is to say, the time for processing when there is uncertainty about what will happen to the child. It has been estimated that the Child Welfare Act should be re-evaluated in this respect in the interests of the child. There are shortcomings in the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities. The right to work and the right to family life still face unjustified obstacles. It is about attitudes, but it is also about legislation. As in the previous year's report, there is still no legal basis for limiting the autonomy of those in institutions. A bill was drawn up by the Katainen Government, which would have provided for restrictive measures precisely. However, the proposal was incomplete and incomplete enough that it did not progress in Parliament. The Constitutional Affairs Committee will assess that proposal. The new government should take this to the finish line. It is important that these necessary restrictive measures be enacted by law, as required by the Constitution. This legislation on self-determination and restrictive measures for those living in institutions, which was adopted in the last period, would need to be accompanied by a law on the provision of services for the elderly. Some things have moved forward. The situation regarding the detention of foreigners has been improved from a human rights perspective when a detention unit was opened in the context of the Swano Reception Centre last autumn. This means that the new unit will be able to reduce the use of police prisons for this purpose, and this will mean a relaxation of the restriction of fundamental rights. There are still shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of prisoners and detainees. Last year, the Council of Europe's Committee on the Prevention of Torture visited Finland. It drew attention to the low level of activity offered to prisoners, to the still large number of so-called holocausts and to the practice of keeping those in long-term detention in police prisons for short-term detention. According to the Committee, there is no acceptable basis for the practice taken in Finland. There are also shortcomings in public health services. There are problems with access to medical rehabilitation aids. The health care guarantee is not implemented in mental health services for children and young people. There are shortcomings in the health care of conscripts, prisoners and so-called undocumented people. Efforts were made to improve access to health services for the undocumented by the government's proposal by Stubb's government, but the proposal was eventually technically lost to the end of the Parliament. The problems of the previous year also remain shortcomings in the safety of the learning environment in basic education. These include bullying at school, indoor air problems and inequality in student care. From a safety point of view, the situation has not improved as teachers' lay-offs increased in the reporting year. Mr President! The long-term handling of judicial proceedings remains a problem, even though legislative measures have been taken to facilitate the situation. In its programme, the new government promises to continue its efforts to accelerate the processes. Well, that's good, as long as we don't jeopardize legal protection. In terms of equality between citizens, it now seems somewhat problematic at the level of the text. A record of the Government Programme of Sipilä's Government, according to which the increase in court fees will be used as one of the means. When considering this, care should be taken to ensure that the payment does not prevent low-income persons from being able to have their case decided by an independent court. It is clear from the domestic human rights problems listed in the Ombudsman's report that responsibility for remedying these problems lies with several ministries. It's the government's common will to put things in order. Although the economic situation is difficult, we must not forget those who are most vulnerable in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u95	Mr President! This report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman was interesting to read. Here are just a few quotes from the report: The first Ombudsman received the first complaint on 11 February 1920 in Vyborg County Prison. The prisoner of a degree was a jäger sergeant, and he complained that his case had been delayed in court. This first ombudsman in Finland was when I saw Erik Alopaeus, and our current ombudsman, Jääskeläinen, is currently 18. The Ombudsman's supervisory powers include all public bodies, excluding the legislative work of the Parliament, the activities of the MPs and the functions of the Chancellor of Justice. It is also important that all individuals carrying out a public task fall within the mandate of the Ombudsman. Thus, when the municipality outsources social and health care services that fall under its responsibility to individuals, their activities are subject to the supervision of the Ombudsman in Finland. The article by Jussi Pa drinker discusses the coming of information technology. The big step is the upcoming electronic matriculation exams. The idea is that by 2019 all the tests will take place electronically in schools, and the last one will be the math test. The basis for information technology is being created in schools, and it is important that different schools prepare for electronic methods. Inspections at schools have shown that children and young people can use entertainment, but other information technology is not self-evident. In addition to the issue of organisation, the use of digital technology is also a legal issue, i.e. equal provision of education does not necessarily take place in all municipalities and schools, and it is, of course, due to a lack of resources and money. A major challenge is also the use of information technology in different sectors of the public sector. The brochure mentions that problems occur in, among other things, the work administration and the police information system. Systems have been driven down, projects have been delayed or projects have been divided into smaller and more manageable projects, such as the Vitja police project. The Ombudsman's role is to monitor and actively promote the implementation of fundamental and human rights. According to the law, he must carry out inspections in agencies and institutions, in particular in prisons and other closed facilities, as well as the status of military personnel in the garrison. In 2014, checks were carried out on 111 sites. Sixteen per cent of all resolved complaints and own initiatives, or 774, led to the Ombudsman’s action. The largest numbers concerned the fields of social security, criminal sanctions, health care and police. The reduction of the time for dealing with complaints in one year has been the Ombudsman’s long-term objective, and in 2014, for example, this was achieved and there were no pending complaints of more than one year at the end of the year. Over 4,600 complaints have been received, but more than 4,700 complaints were resolved at the same time last year. Electronic complaints have also become more widespread, i.e. more than 60% of complaints are made electronically. And finally, a few details of this more than 340-page brochure: The housing and care units of the elderly have been subject to checks and attention paid to real problems. The constant use of diapers and lack of toileting must be considered inhumane and degrading to human dignity. The opportunities for the elderly to walk are limited, as we are all well aware. Everyone wants to die with dignity, so hospice care should also be given proper attention here in Parliament. How is it possible that an unused elderly person who lived in the dwelling of a service house may have been dead for several weeks? Is this not the scope of the inspection? In the field of child protection, in particular, the low number of social workers, sometimes inadequate training and turnover of workers, undermine the quality of child protection services. The inadequacy and delays in providing support to families are causing problems, and the biggest sufferer is a child or a young person. Now if ever there is a need for prevention in these matters. Weaknesses are reflected in an increase in the number of custodys and also as an increasing mental health problem. It was also remarkable to read the press in northern Saxony that three young people were taken into custody, so to speak, on the basis of rumours. They were there for a few months, and now they have to pay tens of thousands — quite rightly — for this suffering. The report has rightly addressed bullying at school. They can't find a decent lunch in here? Every child and young person wants to study in a safe school environment, but one has to ask what is wrong with the school world. School bullying should be disciplined and stopped. The 2013 Annual Activity Report reported on ten key Finnish problems, as the previous speaker also spoke about this. Today they are equally topical — and this has always been the case here in Parliament — in other words, the conditions and care of the elderly, the protection of children, the rights of people with disabilities, the autonomy of those in institutions, the lack of adequate health services, to name a few. The special theme for 2014 was the safeguarding of the rights of persons with disabilities. The problem is the accessibility of mobility and the accessibility of services. Interpreting services, communication tools and information are essential elements of equality for a disabled person. And I am also literally saying that there has been a worrying increase in the number of payments and over-indebtedness, perhaps due to unemployment, life management and many other things. But thank you also for this extensive report. That must be a lot to learn about our parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u96	Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman's report under discussion is an interesting and comprehensive document that gives one perspective on the development of Finnish society in 2014. The pains of society are highlighted. There is a lot of good in society that does not appear in this document, but, on the other hand, we are here to fix the pain. Particular attention must be paid to the ten fundamental and human rights problems raised by the Ombudsman. These pains should be taken into consideration as a central focus for the activities of Parliament and the Government during this parliamentary term that begins. It is sad that the previous Parliament overturned the improvement in the health care of undocumented migrants, but hopefully this and other key issues raised by the Ombudsman will be rectified during this period. In this context, I would like to draw particular attention to one point, namely paragraph 4.8, and to the issue of enforcement and other insolvency proceedings. This is an area in which there has actually been a great deal of improvement in recent years, although there are, of course, many problems. The law of 2013 setting a cap on consumer credit has contained some of the worst problems in the quick-lease business and, according to the Ombudsman’s audit, is also reflected in a reduction in the number of clients in debt counselling, although on the other hand, the debts of customers have increased. The objective of the law to reduce high interest rates and moderate recovery costs seems to have been achieved quite well, although I believe that there is still room for improvement in the reasonableness of recovery costs, particularly in the case of small head of account to be collected. Debt counselling is a very important service and can help prevent people’s problems from getting worse and their exclusion. However, according to the Ombudsman, there are still problems with access to the service and resources and the situation varies from one municipality to another. Attention should therefore be paid to this in order to provide sufficient debt counselling throughout Finland. Social credit provided by municipalities' social services can also be an important tool for breaking the cycle of over-indebtedness, and it would be important for all municipalities to use this tool to help people over-indebtedness and to break the cycle of consumer credit. It would be in the interests of both individuals and society. I would also like to raise a serious problem in relation to the subject. Kela has changed its practices so that overpaid social assistance can no longer be reimbursed by means of a partial payment plan. If the person is unable to repay the claim at one time, transfer the Kela claim directly to the enforcement. For the individual, enforcement means the creation of a default mark. The default marking is often a personal disaster: it makes it more difficult to get a rental dwelling and a mobile phone subscription, for example. In the past, Kela and Kela were able to agree on a repayment plan and retain credit information. Kela justifies this change in practices by improving the status of the debtor. However, many people want to do everything in their power to keep their credit records. This change in Kela's line has caused fear among people and experience of the disproportionate behaviour of the authorities. Kela should check its policies and give people the opportunity to choose whether to repay their claims by way of payment or enforcement. We in this Chamber and in Kela should be aware of the tragedy and the marginalising issue of the loss of credit information at its worst. Perhaps Kela’s well - meaning new course creates problems and unnecessary excesses for people. For society, too, it is often best that things should be handled in such a way that people do not lose their credit records and are subject to enforcement. Enforcement and credit insecurity are at their worst a big incentive trap for employment and a marginalising element. Unfortunately, in the 21st century, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of new default labels. There are certainly a number of reasons for this, but I hope that the efforts of the authorities themselves will not contribute to the creation of these default labels. I therefore hope that both MPs, ministers, ombudsman and, of course, Kela would draw attention to the matter and act in such a way that the line could be considered. I would also like to say to Mrs Zyskowicz that I agree with you for once that there is a major problem of equality in my view, this inequality between women and men in relation to military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u99	Mr President! According to the Parliamentary Ombudsman’s report, the average time for handling complaints has been reduced to less than three and a half months by the end of 2014. Nor was there any complaints of more than one year old pending at the end of the year. I believe that this is a very good development for citizens' legal protection, and it is obviously based on past legislative changes. They have streamlined the handling of complaints and increased the Ombudsman’s discretion and policy options. In part, these times of complaints have also been reduced by a significant increase in the number of complaints lodged electronically. As Mr Mäkipää has already said, about two thirds of them are now being made electronically, which has made an essential contribution to the accelerated investigation of complaints. I believe that this is a simple and promising example of more efficient public service. Other areas of public administration can also reduce administrative costs and at the same time improve the service provided to citizens, but unfortunately not all IT reforms have always been successful as planned. The Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Pa drinker, has pointed out that, when designing and implementing new information systems, there is a need to invest in cooperation between the authorities and to implement reforms as easily manageable entities. In addition, care must be taken in the future to ensure that people who are not used to e-services also retain access to services. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for this extensive report.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u100	At this point, I give the floor to Mr Jääskeläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u101	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank you for the contributions that have been made here. I don't think they contain any questions that actually would be unanswered. Mr Zyskowicz recalled here this decision on the ban on photography in Ateneum and the decision on the short period of service for professional athletes. These are both decisions of assistant ombudsmen, which I do not want and I cannot comment on when assistant ombudsmen resolve matters before them independently and with the same powers as the Ombudsman. Perhaps, however, I could comment on this solution concerning the short period of service for professional athletes when Mr Zyskowicz asked whether the release of women from military service is not a bigger problem of equality. Well, he did not take a position on this, nor do I take a position on it, but I would point out that this exemption of women from military service is, however, based on specific legal provisions, whereas this is not the case with the short service of professional athletes, but, on the contrary, here in the retreat, it is stated that there is no mention in the Military Act, the related regulation or their explanatory statement that professional athletes could be subject to short crew training in this way. But that is all I have to say about these solutions. Thank you for your contributions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-06-16-ps-21.u102	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
