ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by standing up and pressing the P button. I would like to remind both the honourable Members and the respondents that the maximum length of the interventions is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u2	First question, Mr. Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u3	Mr President! There are three things at stake in balancing the economy: employment growth, expenditure savings and income security — and, of course, certain structural reforms linked to these. But the grey economy is unfairly feeding on our income base. It undermines the competitiveness and opportunities of honest operators. Yesterday, Prime Minister, we were discussing the savings made by the government, even the unfair savings that affect, among other things, pensioners and create more poverty. Today, I ask you: Why are you not satisfied with fair savings, with savings that could be achieved through the fight against an enhanced black economy? Why has the programme to combat the shadow economy been abandoned?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u4	Mr President! Under no circumstances has the government abandoned the fight against the shadow economy. The Government has decided to bring together all these activities and to check that these actions are sufficient. If it suits the President, the Minister for the Interior could be more specific about these measures, what is being done to strengthen the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u5	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said, neither the government is giving up the fight against the shadow economy nor this separate project. As of this year, separate funding has already been added to the budget for the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary and the Tax Administration. At present, work is being done to close the EUR 6.4 million gap between the police and the separate funding. This means that when we currently have about 90 men and women in the fight against financial crime, we will be able to employ about half of them, but we will work with internal transfers, that is, transfers of money, to make more money available, plus we are still in the middle of the budget process on the supplementary budget proposal. So I believe that we will be able to achieve a good whole here, and we will be able to resource and secure the shadow economy and the investigation of financial crimes next year as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u7	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, this wish of the Minister for the Interior was nice to hear, because, in fact, experts in the committees have given a slightly different message. There are reports of how the police, Customs, Raja, are losing the resources to tackle the black economy. And, for example, what I believe has not yet been funded relates to the fight against financial crime by the police, which, with this separate contribution from the informal economy, has gained an additional 20% in the fight against financial crime, and this is about millions, millions, tens of millions of euros. But I would ask you when these small investments can bring additional benefits to the fight against the shadow economy: are you prepared to launch a programme that collects these small investments from different administrative sectors and secures them in budget complements before this Parliament closes its budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u8	Mr President! As the Minister for the Interior has said, we are now going to report on the shortcomings we have in the various administrative areas in order to remedy this issue, and if there is a clear lack of resources, then we will deal with them in an appropriate way. But first, we're going to do this study to bring everyone together. The fight against the shadow economy is an extremely important part of economic policy as a whole. Europe as a whole accounts for about 1,800 billion of this grey economy, and the economic crisis in Europe as a whole would not exist if it were subject to normal taxation. Yes, there is still a grey economy in Finland. Different estimates of it vary; perhaps around 10 billion. If this were within our normal tax rate, our economy would be completely different. This is definitely an important issue and one of the most important things on the government agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u9	Mr President! It is clear that an ordinary citizen will have to pay the taxes paid by such different tax refugees when you pardon these tax refugees. And when you think of a common citizen or a small entrepreneur who does not pay the bill or tax, it is also charged and beared with the threat of enforcement and interest. How dare you free the various delinquents from responsibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u10	Mr President! The Minister of Finance is not present, but this proposal is now being discussed by Parliament, in due course, and if there are shortcomings in the proposal, it will then be possible to intervene in the parliamentary procedure. That is why it is now before the committees and, for example, there may also be constitutional aspects which will be examined very carefully in the committee concerned, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u11	Mr President! However, I feel that the fight against the shadow economy is not one of the government's top projects, as it was during the last government term. A large amount of money was invested, resources were increased, more than 40 points were drawn up to combat the black economy. The opposition then appreciated the firm work of the government on this issue. It is very important that we take action to combat the shadow economy, that it is not rampant and that the tax base is not crumbling and that honest entrepreneurs are doing well in this country. That's what we need to support. The SDP has drawn up a programme to combat the shadow economy in paragraph 20 and it will probably be available to everyone. I hope that the government will draw up a concrete programme to combat the shadow economy, and we will be happy to offer the objectives that we have taken seriously in this serious matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u12	Prime Minister Sipilä found a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u13	Mr President! I could not find the question, but I can comment that this is what we are now doing under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u14	Mr President! The fight against the shadow economy and the resolution of financial crimes is a very important issue. What is very important here is that these activities are long-term, and the prevention programme has certainly produced results which must be changed in legislation, in activities or in practice, in order to make financial crimes more difficult to commit in order to prevent them in advance. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior whether this is the way in which the results can now be used, not only can criminal investigations be obtained but can also be prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u15	Mr President! Now we have to start by saying that it was a good question.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u16	Mr President! Government proposals and statements in public about the grey economy have been quite woozy and have cast doubt on the fact that things are not fully under control or are not so important to the government. The management register proposal has been suspected of being able to hide the domestic owner, the real owner, in the custody of these management registers. This is a very quick consultation with the authorities, and the authorities have been concerned about it. The bill of effective repentance is before Parliament. Many legal scholars have criticised the fact that it gives immunity to people who have been able to commit serious, gross tax fraud, while the automatic exchange of information is already bringing more and more of this hidden money to the attention of the State in any case in a few years' time. Has the government considered the image of the citizens of this anti-gravity policy of yours when it is time for such loose legislative proposals to be thrown into the air? How do you see transparency here that people can influence and participate in the debate on issues — is transparency and the fight against the black economy always important to you?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u18	Mr President! It is easy to answer this question: this is an important value for this government. For example, in the case of the management register, the starting point is that transparency should increase, and this refers to the statements made by officials and various authorities on a proposal from the previous period. It has now been changed in a more open direction, and a further round of opinions has been taken, and if there is a further message from there that this does not lead to a more open direction, then the proposal must be changed. It is clear that the starting point for this is greater transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u19	Mr President! Mr Sipilä, are you not at all concerned that this effective repentance will lead to moral hazard when those who have had money to hide are released from responsibility? The situation could be likened to such a case that if a bank robber robs a bank, flees from a crime scene and the police begin to reach the getaway car, this robber stops, walks to a police officer, says that I confess but I repent enormously, and the policeman says that you will be released from responsibility but you will still be able to keep the loot.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u20	Mr President! This progress towards effective repentance is based on the report of the Committee on Finance of the previous period, from which this has started.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u23	Mr President! We all know that resources are scarce. It seems to me that we are, as it were from this actual programme, putting the fight against the shadow economy into normal activities. We know that it is very difficult to do so. The tasks for which special funding has been provided and where specific results have been obtained are not easily implemented into normal operation. That is why it is extremely important that there is a programme that governs the use of resources. But we can also get results without additional resources. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour Protection, for example, when our health and safety inspectors are currently tied to certain areas and cannot cross that border or there are inspectors who cannot check the issues that currently belong, for example, to the police or to the tax officer: if legislation is amended and there is synergy here, can you promise to produce such a proposal, because it does not eat euros, it will bring them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u24	Mr President! Yes, I could see it this way. Of course, this is the joint work of a number of different administrative sectors, and the common objective must be to achieve the desired results. Yes, I take this message very seriously and, of course, we will see how it could be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u25	Next question, Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u26	Madam President! Last week we held a debate in this Chamber on racism and the extreme right. This is a good step forward, of course. We have been talking about these things all summer, and the fact that it came here to the gym is a good thing. In order not to leave the issue in the air and simply to the level of debate, we must call for concrete action from the point of view of the government. So I ask the Minister for the Interior: is the government prepared to tighten up the monitoring of the extreme right? What practical measures does the government intend to take to prevent extremism and extreme right-wing violence? And will the legislation also be tightened up? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u27	Mr President! The events in Jyväskylä during the summer were shocking and totally reprehensible. Right after that, we decided to increase the control of extremist movements in Finland, and this has been maintained. What can be done legally? Above all, whether the activities of violent and violent extremists can be banned and criminalised — that is what we are waiting for The decision of the legal process of the events in Jyväskylä and the consideration to be taken in that context, then we will take decisions on the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u28	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u29	Madam President! I would remind you that eradicating violence and improving security is, of course, one of the biggest tasks of the Ministry of the Interior. I would have asked what kind of projects you have in the Ministry of the Interior to prevent such groups, in addition to existing dangerous organisations, from growing, and in what way do you intend to intervene in these cases? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u30	Mr President! I think it is the case that the most important task is for us to share, and it is that we prevent the development of inequality in Finland, prevent the growth of exclusion, invest in youth work and young people, and reduce and reduce the reasons why some go into extremism and go into activities that are unacceptable and even illegal. Preventive work can and must be done on many of these fronts. Then again, on the part of the authorities, there is the control of extremism and then the encounter and return of those who are going on the wrong path, with the broad cooperation of the authorities back to the right path, are extremely important. This work is being carried out by the police, together with other authorities, and new activities are being developed. It has been a good way of working that it has been visited from abroad, and has visited our models in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u31	Madam President! Thank you for the question and thank you very much for the debate last week. I think we're going to need a debate. And at the point when a boy from high school comes to thank you for the debate in Parliament, I believe that we MEPs are also on the right track. We need constructive debate, but also, of course, transparency and, above all, dialogue on these issues. But, of course, as has been said here, a debate alone is not enough. In that regard, I would like to ask once again whether the government is willing to intervene in these extremism, of course racism at the same time, but also whether the risk assessment of extremism is being updated. So I ask Minister Orvo once again: is this going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u32	Mr President! Risk values are regularly updated, including updated immediately after the events in Jyväskylä. As I said, the protection police and the local police have intensified the surveillance of extremists in Finland. We are doing this risk assessment all the time, and the operations will be measured accordingly. It is absolutely essential that monitoring is carried out — especially when we can see that today's Finnish society is experiencing symptoms and extreme phenomena are lifting its head. I would also like to say that there are, however, only a few hundred people in these extremist movements, political ones, and that does not make it any less reprehensible; that action is totally reprehensible. But the reassuring message is that this is a small group, but even louder and even more dangerous. This monitoring will be monitored. What we can still do is work together. Finnish civil society must meet this challenge: together with individual citizens, organisations, jobs, businesses and public authorities, everything must be done to eliminate violent extremism.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u33	Mr President! Racist crime is extremely repugnant; this is quite clear. It must be countered, it must be suppressed. In this respect, we cannot accept retreats, surrenders, compromises or any concessions. When we study this phenomenon, I believe that we have a fairly wide range of statistics on this racist crime. I'd like to know more about them. Do we have any information on what sections or groups of people are more likely to be exposed both as victims and as perpetrators of racist crime? For example, how do Finnish citizens or immigrants relate to these statistics as victims or criminals? Is it possible that groups of immigrants are guilty of racist crime among themselves, or is there any other interesting and important information of this kind that we are able to react not only to extremism but also to this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u34	Mr President! It's a very challenging question. I would say that if we attempt to respond in detail, we could return to this issue and analyse it properly. The general view is that it is difficult to make significant differences, at least between the various groups of the population or between the population and immigrants. But we will return to this question. At present, citizens are saddening about the impact of increasing immigration on the overall security situation. I think the situation is reasonably well held by the Finnish safety authorities. Of course, we have major difficulties in maintaining a sense of order and security, especially in the new reception centres, but where they have been operating longer, these threats have been found to be somewhat oversized.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u35	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue with my own question with the excellent question of the previous representative. A human rights report was carried out last season, which raises four different subjects, one of which is young people with different cultural backgrounds, and precisely because they experience more discrimination than the rest of the population. So we have at least one concrete tool in it. This is also an important reminder that the debate on racism was a good one, but it must be remembered that racism is not an isolated part of this society but is in the structure. It's a phenomenon with a long history. It has a long history, both at global and national level, and its roots also extend to this day. It's power, it's subjugation, it's inequality. That is why it is also important to ask the government what concrete measures it intends to take in a legislative way and otherwise to eradicate racism from Finnish society at every level?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u36	Which of the ministers is taking this now? — — — — Minister Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u37	Mr President! The broad question is that what measures does the government take in order to eradicate racism? I think this is in attitudes, and that is not necessarily the case with legislation. Racism is totally reprehensible; it is not part of this society. The only way to get rid of racism is to influence people's attitudes, to increase knowledge of different cultures, different customs and to have an open debate in today's world. I think it is the best work that both the government and the opposition, parliamentarians and non-governmental organisations can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u38	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u39	Madam President! School and the school world are one good way to eradicate and combat racism. We assume that every child has the right to a safe school environment and that the school will create a basis that will contribute to the creation of a racism-free society. The new curricula already show this in the value base of the school world, and new curricula will be introduced next autumn. Of course, this is nothing new in the school world, but this work has been going on for a long time. In addition to that, my portfolio includes cultural issues, and there we aim to be able to support those who do this important work. Now that there is a situation in Finland that we have an increase in the number of refugees, asylum seekers, we will also be on the cultural side next year increasing funding for multicultural work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u40	Next question, Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u41	Mr President! The Government's General Assembly has today signed up for a proposal to restrict subjective day care rights. This means that in future children whose parents are at home for one reason or another would be entitled to only 20 hours of early childhood education per week. As the government is probably aware, our day care system has not only a care and early childhood education function but also a child protection function, and the importance of these protective routines of child protection in the day care centre is particularly emphasised when there is a change in the situation at home, a potential crisis situation is taking place. Well, now the government is creating a system in which, especially when things change at home, big changes are being made in the child’s life at the same time in the day care centre. This is exactly the opposite of what we do everywhere else in child welfare, and many experts have felt that, together with raising group sizes, this will significantly reduce the level of Finnish day care. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the estimated savings are small, estimated disadvantages
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u42	Mr President! Due to Finland’s difficult economic situation, we have today submitted a Government proposal to amend the early childhood education law, which includes 20 hours of entitlement to high-quality, pedagogically thought-out early childhood education for every child. With this reform, we are also trying to secure — together with the fact that the foundations of early childhood education are being established in the Finnish National Board of Education for the first time, and we have done a great deal of work in that the quality of early childhood education has been further developed and developed — above all the long work that has been done to develop early childhood education, even after this reform. That is what I would like to say when you drew attention to the protection of children and to families in a difficult position: that is why I consider it extremely important that, in the context of this reform, it is included in the law that, when it is in the best interests of the child, when the development and growth of the child or the conditions of the family so require, the family and the child are also entitled to more early education than 20 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u43	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u44	Mr President! It is rather unrealistic to expect those families that would benefit most from pre-emptive child protection to beg and explain separately the difficult situation of their families to the authorities in order to get that place, at least to the extent necessary. In the future, the decision on care time would be made on the basis of the family’s regular life situation, but the time in many Finnish families with children is currently in a situation where there is no regular situation, but the labour market status of one parent changes many times a year. Prime Minister Sipilä, you have talked a lot about standards. Now, however, a stakeout mechanism is being created in Finland, which requires reporting on labour market status on a number of occasions per year from all families with small children, and a bureaucratic request on a separate basis in a situation where there are specific problems in the family that require child protection measures. That's what it says in the show that was left today. Does not the dismantling of bureaucracy and trust apply to ordinary Finnish families?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u45	Mr President! These concerns, expressed by Mr Kontula, have been well taken into account in this drafting of the law, and it is precisely not because we wanted to build a bureaucratic system or demand some sort of stalking, but all this is based on the very normal everyday and everyday communication between families and day care providers, early childhood education providers, precisely at the local level, and it is based on family announcements. The family will let you know when their lives change. Even as the mother of a two-year-old girl, I see that the situations in the day-care centre are quite everyday, that the debate is taking place, and we hope that there will be even more discussion in the future. The new law on early childhood education, which we have now created, came into force on 1.8., offers new opportunities when, for example, early childhood education plans became a right for all children and the organisers were obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u46	Mr President! I think there are a lot of problems here, but one thing that will cause great problems and challenges in very practical situations is that the child has the right to remain in the same place of care. This means that there will be both children in the same group who are entitled to full-time care and children who have limited rights. How will the government instruct municipalities in practice? How will the municipalities do this? It is quite a few kindergartens where there are different groups for children who then have this limited right to early childhood education. This will in practice lead to the fact that the groups will be very large, especially given the flexibility that exists in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u47	Mr President! We also considered it important in the drafting of the law that children's day care place should not change all the time, but that there should be stability in that everyday life. As a result, we wrote to the law that the child and the family are entitled to the same place of care, even if the status of parents in the labour market or the family situation — that is, if a child is born — changes. I therefore continue to regard this as one of the most successful points of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u54	Mr President! Now we must remember that when we discuss subjective day care rights, we are discussing the right of the child to good care and education. Studies have been carried out that good early childhood education pays itself back 6 to 7 times, and now the government is taking a big risk for a particular group of children by appealing, for example, to the unemployment situation of parents. Sos.dem. An hour ago, a parliamentary group at its meeting took an extremely negative view of this government proposal. We will not accept it, we will have our own alternative proposal for it. And now I ask you, Prime Minister: You said nicely in connection with another law that Parliament could correct the government's proposal. Will you allow the representatives of the government parties to correct this bad government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u55	Mr President! I agree with Mr Gustafsson that early childhood education is of great value. It is even the most important part of our education system, according to recent studies, and it is extremely important that we continue to offer every child a subjective right to high-quality, pedagogically thought-out early education 20 hours a week, which is five hours more than, for example, in our neighbouring country of Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u56	Mr President! It is very important that when we talk about early childhood education, we talk about the right of children to early childhood education. This whole package, which is included in the Government Programme, is very challenging. There are a lot of very good things in it, but there are also some rather tricky questions. What is important is that the government carefully goes through this law, and perhaps that adult relationship with children, that part-time groups have a different regulation than full-time care, is something that needs to be considered. But I fully support the Minister that he is also considering this. But I ask: when there is a lot of money coming in for teacher training, its renewal and further education, at least a great deal of effort in difficult times, it is true that this also applies to kindergarten teachers, that there will also be money in their further training.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u57	Mr President! Yes, at the same time, we want to develop the pedagogy of early childhood education, and as a result we will have EUR 7 million in the budget next year for the substantive development of early childhood education, and as part of it we will be able to increase the education rates of 120 university kindergarten teachers, which is good news and, in the long term, to develop early childhood education in a very good direction. It is quite true — and rightly so in this Chamber, and I am glad that this is being discussed, because it will of course increase the understanding and knowledge of the importance of early childhood education as part of our education system — that this difficult economic situation has led us to take quite a number of measures in many sectors which are also undesirable to the rapporteurs of those who are presenting them in the Council of State. One of the problems in this case is that we have to increase the ratio from 7 to 8 in the groups of these larger children, and that is, of course, something we are very sorry about. But in this situation we have to do things in different directions to ensure that we have access to this service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u58	Next question, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u59	Ärade talman, Mr President! Regeringen har idag också valt att föreslå införandet av terminsavgifter för Studerande från länder utanför EU och EES-området.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u60	Mr President! The Government has set as one of its top priorities the removal of obstacles to education exports and the increase in the turnover of education exports to 350 million by 2018. Just a moment ago, with Minister Toivaka, we were at an event where we had invited training exporters, expecting about 30, or that class, the operator, there were over a hundred interested parties to go to the world to take Finnish education there, to make it an export product that will generate additional income, and that income will be left directly to universities, their funding base, in this difficult economic situation. We believe that this legislation will open up new opportunities for education exports: it has been the main obstacle and a blockage to the implementation of education exports. I consider it important that the scholarship system allows students from the most vulnerable countries and families to continue to be able to secure their studies in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u61	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u62	Mr President! According to many estimates, foreign students bring much more income to Finland through knowledge and skilled labour than they incur costs. Furthermore, even students who move abroad after graduation are extremely important links for Finnish companies in terms of exports. Educational institutions have estimated that this new tuition fee is likely to cost more than income. What's the government's assessment of that?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u63	Mr President! Finland has been one of the few OECD countries that do not charge tuition fees to students outside the EU and the EEA. In Sweden and Denmark, for example, these systems have been introduced; they are good benchmarks for us. The universities themselves have hoped for the possibility of levying and, as I said in my previous speech, it has also been a major blockage of education exports. But of course we must pay very much attention to this internationalisation in our higher education world and to the fact that we already know from the experience of the neighbouring country what has been taken into account in the explanatory statement of the law, namely that, at the first stage, it is absolutely certain that the number of applicants will fall. But, as has happened in Sweden, they have slowly started to rise again, so of course this also requires the universities to make marketing efforts, for which they are well prepared. Then we need to think about different ways in which Finland would be an attractive country for excellence, that after their training they would also want to stay in Finland and bring added value to our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u64	Mr President! It must be said that the most important thing in drafting the law is, of course, to hear feedback, and in this context, when we talk about tuition fees, then certainly one important aspect is how feedback is taken into account. In that respect, I think it is worth remembering that every university place is a place of at least EUR 6000 to over EUR 10000, and then, of course, the question is that in this government proposal, when this threshold is measured, it is worth looking into that commentary. I would ask the Minister: Now that you are going into this project, the fact is that some 4,000 of the new foreign students who start in the autumn will not come, half or 80%. I am sure that each of us is wondering where the rest of these places are going, and I am very disappointed that the Council of State did not make a statement, did not intervene in any way in the student union and did not take these measures, where these other places are going. Since we have between 40,000 and 60,000 young people... [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeKiuru, Question. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u67	Mr President! There are, of course, separate decisions on the dimension of education. You mentioned the hearing of this feedback and that it would be taken into account, in fact we have now used the experience of this academic experiment, which was a few years ago, and which, among other things, stated that a model does not work where another university offers the same education free of charge and then pays for it, but that this system should be made available to everyone. This was also shared by our higher education sector. At the last stage, then, in this bill, we decided to set a threshold of EUR 1500, but of course it is only a very small part of the cost of studying — about EUR 8000 — depends terribly on the sector. On the contrary, we have now made a great deal of effort to take these into account, on the one hand, and to offer autonomy and opportunities for our universities to influence and, on the other hand, to take all this information into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u68	Madam Speaker! It is probably good to prepare for a reduction in the short term of students outside the EU and the EEA regions in Finland. In the longer term, this will of course create opportunities, above all, for the creation of educational exports. That is why I think it is very important that this scholarship system is actually being created here right away, so that underprivileged students from low-income countries can continue to benefit our nation in the future. I hope it is strongly inside the government's proposal. The question is, Minister: when we were hoping that those students would actually stay in Finland after they have been here, could we in the future develop a system of deductions that would allow that payment — however, in the future, quite a reasonable payment — to be reduced in taxation, for example, so that we would encourage good non-EU and EEA students to benefit Finland and work here in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u69	Mr President! That's a very good question. I myself would like to see models that should be developed and developed to reflect on the incentives and ways in which: Finland would appear to be an attractive country for these excellences we train, then also as a working environment, so that they can stay here and work and add value to our society. Of course, we will immediately begin to prepare and reflect on these. They are not entirely unproblematic to create — it must, of course, take account of our operating environment, tax legislation and even the EU level — but they could be considered, among other things, on the basis of how, in the previous period, Mr Satosen's legislative initiative had considered models in this regard. We could work together to develop these. Moreover, I think it is important that we also build the path of internationalisation in this context, that this direction is not, however, in the long run, a reduction in the number of foreign students, but rather we hope that it will increase in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u70	Minister Toivakka is still completing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u71	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to respond to this issue of training exports when it has been raised on a number of issues. There has been much call for more exports to Finland in this Chamber, and this training export is a real opportunity to do so. This is a huge sector globally: up to EUR 100 billion is moving around this area of education exports around the world. Finland has a very small share in this at the moment. We have a chance to do this more strongly. And I can personally say hello to you on a number of export promotion missions. Whatever the delegation is, it's always a question of training exports. Finnish expertise has a good reputation. We are trusted, and this product is known in a way. But we do not have enough product to sell, and we have to sell a lot of non-eos. Of course, we are doing education exports now, but it is still on a rather small level. This is a huge opportunity for us in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u72	Next question, Congressman Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u73	Madam President! Finland participates in its own strong contribution to the crisis management mission in Afghanistan, the so-called Resolute Support operation. There are 68 men and women in the task now, but according to an existing plan at the beginning of next year there would be about 40 people and then at the end of the year 10 people. However, the security situation in Afghanistan is not such as to put an end to the crisis management mission there. Among other things, the United States has already decided to suspend its withdrawal. According to some information, Germany would also be doing the same. Secretary of State Soini, you just visited Germany and met your colleague Frank-Walter Steinmeier. What did you discuss this issue, and how do you see the continuation of Finland in the operation? Will Resolute Support continue with us after next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u74	Madam President! A very important and topical question from Mr Savola. I talked to the German Foreign Minister about many things, including this. The security situation in Afghanistan remains fragile. In time, the USA had decided that they would withdraw by the end of 2016. Now there has been a change of heart, and this, of course, raises the question of who else might be left behind. No decisions were made. It is very likely that the request will come to Germany, Finland and many others in order not to destabilise the fragile situation in Afghanistan. The situation is that if Afghanistan collapses into the Taliban or the Isil regime, it will cause a massive influx of refugees. This is an extremely important issue. This will be decided in Finland in due course,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u75	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u76	Madam President! I thank Mr Soin for his reply. In addition to being extremely important in the country of destination, crisis management tasks are also important from the point of view of our national defence, particularly through experience with reservists and professional soldiers. However, our economic situation is very challenging in this country. That is why the framework for our defence budget is also very tight when it comes to the end of this decade. I would like to ask Minister of Defence Niinistö how the resources for defence will be provided for the possible continuation of the mission in Afghanistan and in any other operation at all. Can you assure me that the level of military training and reserve refresher exercises will not be compromised under any circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u77	Madam President! This government will continue to play an active role in international crisis management, but the framework conditions of the economy are severe. If the Afghan operation, Resolute Support, is decided to continue after the end of 2016, it will most likely be carried out through an additional budget. I can assure you, also in accordance with the Government Programme, that this government will guarantee universal military service. This means that the training of military personnel will remain high-quality and the number of refresher exercises for reserve personnel will be satisfactory, which will be 18,000 this year and the same for next year, and hopefully the rest of the spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u78	Mr President! It is indeed the case that too fast a withdrawal from Afghanistan would only result in improvements at high prices being wasted on women and girls, for example. If we are to remain there for an additional period of time, we heard that it, like other possible additional crisis management operations, will require additional budgeting. I would like to ask the government: is it appropriate that the financial margin for crisis management operations is always so small that they are always financed through additional budgets? Can we not be prepared for a little longer in the long term and with room for manoeuvre when we know that these needs may come to us?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u79	Madam President! Of course, it would always be better if we were able to anticipate all the situations. But for example, such situations and world crises and crisis outbreaks arise very quickly, and help must then also be obtained very quickly. This is the way that extra budgets are made. We have other issues, such as unemployment benefits, which are often provided with an additional budget if unemployment gets worse, because they are not always predictable. Then I would like to say that yesterday, or the last time foreign policy was discussed, the opposition was very concerned about effectiveness. This if someone who is involved in this type of organisation has the impact of Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u80	Madam President! I fully agree with the Minister that it is important for Finland to be responsible, especially for UN operations, as has been the case for decades, but we are now breaking this ground. If we now have 560 peacekeepers around the globe, as I recall, in various operations, the government’s goal is to draw it to less than a hundred, to 90. It also means scrapping the whole system for education and others here in Finland. It is not possible suddenly to send out dozens and hundreds of people with additional budgets if there is no experience and training here on a regular basis. For this reason, is it absolutely necessary to scrap this fine doctrine of the Finnish defence system, which has come from the world, and, on the other hand, to export what could have been exported to the world during this reign?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u81	Madam President! Now I have to disagree radically with the honourable Member. We have experience of crises. We have a long way to go and learn, and we get it and we apply it. At the moment, Finland is involved in training with the Peshmerga troops in Erbil, we are in UNIFIL, we just left for MINUSMA and if the request comes and we consider it positively, we would go to this. If we want to look into the past, how much less have the previous two or three governments resourced these things? In fact, if we were to move forward here, this government would provide more resources for what we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u82	Mr President! Mr Soini, I think you are right to judge the situation in Afghanistan against the fact that if there is a deterioration in the security situation, there will also be an increase in the number of Afghans in the refugee stream in Europe. After all, we have already had quite a lot of Afghan refugees in this refugee stream, and the Taliban's activities in Kunduz, its takeover and so forth, are of course worrying. Having met not only the Germans but also the Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, I would have asked you whether there has been a debate with them on this Russian point of view on the security situation in Afghanistan. I read about President Putin's visit to Kazakhstan, where he pointed out that there should be a front against the possible radicalisation of Afghanistan. Is this a matter in which you see a common concern between the West and Russia?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u83	Madam President! I had a very wide-ranging discussion with Minister Lavrov about these crises, and yes, Russia shares the concern about how to stop radicalisation. This is an excellent opportunity for cooperation in the East and the West. In particular, we discussed Syria, and Russia’s main concern was that if a power vacuum were created, it would be filled by Isil. I believe that this same philosophy goes as far as Afghanistan: Russia, during the Soviet Union, went there and accepted a hard lesson. It is in the interest of all of us, Russia, the USA and also Finland, that Afghanistan should remain stable and be able to move forward, because otherwise it is threatening to become another Syria, and that is something that we really do not want.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u84	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The debate is opened by Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u85	Madam President! In December last year, Parliament approved an amendment to the Marriage Act, which also allows persons of the same sex to enter into marriage. The amendment will enter into force on 1 March 2017. The aim of this proposal is to make only the necessary amendments to the legislation required for the amendment of the law on marriage adopted. According to the proposal, persons registering their partnerships could transform a registered partnership into a marriage after 1 March 2017 by notifying the Local Register Office together. The change would therefore not take place automatically. The registration of new relationships would be waived. So registration of a relationship would not be an option for marriage. A registered partnership registered before the amendment of the Marriage Act entered into force would remain in force if it is not wanted to become a marriage. A so-called'marriage requirement' would be removed from the Act establishing the sex of the transsexual, i.e. the condition that the person asking for sex confirmation is not in a marriage or registered partnership. Moreover, in the case of sex strengthening, marriage would not become a registered partnership. The change in the concept of marriage also affects the provisions on cohabitation and marital relations. It is intended that the provisions on common-law marriage apply in the same way to all couples regardless of gender. The proposal does not contain any changes to the legislation on social security benefits or social and health services. The necessary legislative amendments will be prepared separately so that they can enter into force on 1 March 2017. Mr President! Here is a brief presentation by the reluctant minister. I'm taking this personally... My position has not changed to anything in itself, to this law, but it is my duty to present it, and I come here and do not cry behind the tree. I hope you will respect this decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u87	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, we had an emotional debate on the so-called human rights of same-sex couples, and here we are. We are now dealing with the Government's proposal, on which the last Parliament gave instructions to this Parliament. The citizens' initiative was driven through the Parliament by the media, although it received a majority of votes only in southern Finland. In the constituencies of Satakunta, North Savo, North Karelia, Vaasa, Central Finland, Oulu and Lapland, they wanted to remain in the traditional concept of marriage. Changes to the marriage law would prevent a child from meeting another biological parent. The adoption of gays and transparites would undermine children's rights, distort the equality of children and be unfair to children. The social and economic effects of the legislative amendment are unpredictable because they have never been investigated. In particular, a careful assessment of the impact of children should continue to be carried out, especially as we know that legislative changes took place in other countries in a very short period of time. There is little evidence of their impact on children. It is therefore completely irresponsible to have such an extensive and blind social experiment without looking at a longer period of time. Only through a child impact assessment can we consider adoption in the light of the right information. After all, it is a question of the future of children and society as a whole, and change must not take place without an in-depth impact assessment. I would like to ask the Minister: can we afford such an extensive social experiment, with our own children as guinea pigs? It is the case that this government proposal cannot fail to affect all future generations and the blessing of the Christian heritage that we have enjoyed as a nation. I'd like to talk more about the right of children to father and mother. But I'm not doing it because a lot of people have gotten so slow to hear. Since the rights of children in this matter do not apply to all decision-makers, I am speaking directly at the heart of the matter, which is what is in my heart at the moment. Mr President! It is worrying that this government proposal is being rushed through by our own minister. A shameful word is not strong enough to describe the powerlessness of government ministers to defend the marriage institution. What prevents our ministers from bringing into Parliament only laws that they see and experience? It is not enough to explain the will state of the previous Parliament. This Parliament owes no one. Preachers of equality and tolerance have misled a large number of people and also decision-makers. Fear of being stamped silences the lips that previously defended the child’s right to father and mother. Defend freedom of speech, defend marriage between man and woman, defend Christian values. That is what the decision maker should do, because it is the best thing for the nation as a whole. In particular, I appeal to our Prime and Foreign Ministers: Prime Minister Sipilä, Foreign Minister Soini, you are both professing Christians and you are quite certain that God has exalted you to this task for this very time. Where is your fear of God? Where are the roots of your faith, in the opinions of men, or in God’s Word? Is it not because the mistakes of the former government and Parliament are being corrected that the elections are being held? Throughout the ages, laws have been passed in the parliament, which have later been found ineffective. If the law has not received the blessing of a sitting government, it has been revoked or changed. This has always been the case and will always be the case. Mr President! Throughout the ages, Finland has been a Christian society in which the value of man and the foundation of the values of society arise from God’s Word, the Bible. Now the value base on which our country is built is about to be thrown into a junkyard. This government's proposal is a statement in favour of a new, more liberal world of values. The amendment of the Marriage Act would inevitably create ecclesiastical and social pressures for change. The pressure would apply not only to the Lutheran Church but also to other religious communities that might eventually have to give up their right to marry. School curricula would also be under pressure for change, which would begin to highlight homosexual sexual orientation and gender diversity. Gender minority organisations would demand greater support from public funds so that the identity of the minorities they represent does not become less sensitive to the gender majority. The sentences of hate crimes would become harsher, and freedom of expression would be reduced. Christianity’s view of a life - long marriage between man and woman would gradually be sidelined, and it would be reprehensible to keep it on display. Mr President! You don’t have to be a prophet to predict that the two - sex standard will soon become obsolete. Sexual neutrality already sits on the horizon and waits in Seta's desk drawer. The demands for a transformation of the transfiguration and a man’s right to give birth are only one vote on the watch to scrap the whole gender code. Furthermore, when we know that parties sitting here too, such as the Greens, want to bring polygamy into force in Finland too, the trend is worrying. Who would be deprived of such legislation? None if we ask the decision-makers in favour of these liberal values. So it is an illusion to claim that there would be no further consequence of a gender-neutral marriage law. It would change our entire social structure if it were to come about. That is why the present Parliament should abstain from the current marriage law and repeal the government proposal presented today. Finally, I would not dare to undermine this concept of marriage and family that has been accepted and established since the beginning of creation. Marriage is an institution older than the state. Indeed, the first written record of a marriage can be found almost 5,000 years ago. Marriage is the basic building block of human civilization, which forms the basic unit of organised society, the family. For centuries, marriage law has sought not only legal organisation in a wide variety of societies, but also to support marriage between men and women. The demarcation of marriage between the sexes has not been arbitrary, since this relationship differs from all other relationships: only a man and a woman can have offspring. The state has acknowledged marriage between man and woman because it as an institution benefits society in a way that no other human relationship benefits it. I am therefore sorry that our ancestors did not see the direction Finland is developing as a society, nor did they concrete the law on marriage into the Constitution. My position and position are that marriage must only be maintained as a marriage between men and women and that adoption by couples of the same sex outside the family should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u88	President! To Mr Niiko, I would say that your party is generally concerned that extreme religious rhetoric will receive political content. I don't think it belongs here in this Parliament, no matter what the religion is. To you, the reaction of Archbishop Kari Mäkinen, the supreme leader of the church, in which he said before the vote in Parliament that, if an equal marriage law is adopted, it will not jeopardise human rights or the rights of children. When the marriage law was adopted, he expressed his joy at the decision, and much of the Christian people of Finland share this joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u89	Mr President! Of course, Archbishop Kari. Mäkinen has a right to his own opinion, and he also has authority over that opinion, I will not deny it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u92	Madam President! I understand the religious point of view of Mr Niko, but I do not believe that it can be the point of view of the legislator who exercises the secular legislative power. No one can be put on an unequal footing by secular power on the basis of age, gender, sexual orientation or ethnic origin. Representative Nikon should also be aware that marriage in its original form was primarily an economic agreement. Religious communities will continue to make their own decisions in the future, but my view is that we should send this matter forward instead of tempting and dragging it along.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u93	Chairman! I can only agree with what the previous speaker said. This is not about so-called human rights, it is about human rights and equal treatment for people. I do not think that the way religious communities view this legislation and interpret their own practices is part of this Chamber; here we decide on legislation, and I think that this debate should also focus on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u94	Madam President! The last term of government dealt with this equal marriage law for almost a year. For almost a year, the same thing was said about it, while the poor, the sick, the pregnant, all things were left unaccounted for at the expense of an equal marriage law. They waited there for their affairs too, but no, this was the most important matter of the last government. Bishop Mäkinen was also mentioned here. He did take a strong stand, as did Bishop Askola of Helsinki, and with what result? Tens of thousands of people left the church, and with what result? Now they don't have a home to be. They got away from their beloved home where they had been for decades. My question is: will Bishop Mäkinen and Bishop Askola take these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u95	Mr President! I think it is natural that, once Parliament has made its decision democratically, Minister Lindström will now, in accordance with his mandate, follow Parliament's decision and thank him for that. Without further comment, the citizens' initiative system is becoming somewhat of an interesting light. We have a counter-citizen's initiative for this citizens' initiative coming to Parliament after this legislative work. And I would ask Minister Lindström whether you have had a debate in the Ministry about whether there should be any reform of the system of citizens' initiatives. I myself have raised, for example, the possibility of non-signature, because this could also be one way of saying that it is not in favour of such an emotional question, and this could, for example, overcome the constant spiral of having a citizens' initiative and its counter-initiative here every six months.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u96	Madam President! However, when reference was made to the statements made by Archbishop Mäkinen, I would like to remind you that Finland does not. According to the church’s confirmed concept of marriage, marriage is a union between one woman and one man. This matter is evident both from the Church Manual and from the decisions of the Bishops’ Assembly and the Council, and in that sense I wonder how the archbishop can deviate from the decisions of the Council. This changed situation and the strong distribution of members' opinions can and should lead to both an administrative and doctrinal crisis in the church.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u97	Mr President! Of course, in the debate it is good to remember that we are not actually talking about the marriage law directly, but about these other laws, which will be affected by this marriage law, which has already been adopted. I myself would think that, when that law was being passed, it was precisely from the point of view of human rights and equality, and that is also how we managed to get it through. I have a lot of hopes for the future that we will have the cultural change, that we will find the new limits on how to talk about these things. If I am thinking of Mr Nikon's speech in this Chamber, I think it is extremely degrading, it is a violation of human equality and human rights, and at least this new law on marriage must give them protection, and I would also urge Parliament to consider whether this type of rhetoric and speech is still appropriate in the Chamber. Or, when I think of a minister whom I have greatly appreciated on many points, I cannot respect the fact that we should begin by saying that this is a repulsive presentation. No matter what belief it is, but when you come to present it, you must remember what law we are talking about, that there are people behind it, families, individuals, their rights, their equality, their well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u98	Mr President! As has already been decided here, the matter will be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and, against that background, I would like to thank the Minister for doing his official work here, whatever his opinion on the matter. And, as Mr Toivola said, these are accompanying laws to the law that was decided in the previous period, and each of us has any view of these laws, and they will be dealt with in a proper and completely impartial manner in the Legal Committee. Similarly, if we have a counter-initiative, if it is now an authentic marriage initiative, a citizens' initiative, then, of course, we appreciate the citizens' initiative system and the system, and I think that we should also receive valuable treatment. In my opinion, it should be discussed at the Ministry of Justice, which is the fate of these counter-initiatives and possible future counter-initiatives, but it is not part of this debate. I would ask the Minister whether we have already thought about this development of the citizens' initiative system in what way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u99	Mr President! If I remember correctly, I have not given a single speech on this subject throughout my parliamentary career, not because it is unclear to me or difficult, on the contrary: I have not spoken because it has been obvious. When it comes to human rights, we should not dwell on our position for too long. But the scale of this has failed quite a bit, and I am surprised that, if Mr Niikko is really behind his conviction and position in this way, how can he apply for a basis that last season was carried out in some questionable way, and on regional policy grounds then question the outcome of this last period, or say that the ministers will have their place from God. How, then, is it possible that a few atheists have slipped into this Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u100	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Toivola, for your excellent speech. I can only agree with that. Yes, we have some responsibility, including the Minister, as to what kind of debate we are having here and what kind of message we want to send. I do not think that we have spent too much time on this last period, because it seems that this debate is still necessary. I believe that every debate and every debate that has taken place here, particularly among the citizens, with the tens of thousands of people, has certainly been more than necessary. As Mr Toivola has rightly pointed out here, this is precisely these changes which are now included in the government proposal. In fact, these necessary changes are coming, but I would like to ask the Minister about these other, still very flagrant violations of human rights, what we still have here in Finland, for example, the transfiguration. That is what we have tabled a few written questions with the Socialist MPs today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u101	Mr President! During its history, Finland has been a pioneer in equality and equality. The changes made to the Marriage Act are another right step towards real equality and also equality. The most important regulatory decisions on equal marriage have already been made. The question has been that the law in force on marriage has placed people in an unequal position on the basis of the spouse’s sex. Equality was introduced into the Finnish government in 1919 by the Constitutional Committee and the 1995 fundamental rights reform introduced explicit prohibitions of discrimination and provisions to safeguard the equality of children and gender. According to Article 6 of the Finnish Constitution, no one may be placed in a different position without an acceptable basis on the basis of sex or other reasons related to a person, such as sexual orientation. I welcome the fact that this bill has finally been brought before Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u102	Next up, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u103	Mr President! Let us be a little clearer about this reluctance. I was called by the name that I did not introduce this to the Government because I had an obstacle — it was said that the reluctant minister, and that is why I said so. I respect the decision made by the previous Parliament, although I did and disagree. I'm bringing these accompanying laws here to introduce you because that's my job. I have not changed my mind, but this is my duty. So I respect the decision made by Parliament. In this job, I sometimes have to defend bad things and things that I can say I disagree with. There is one, but I am taking it quite calmly, and I hope, of course, that everyone will not be getting carried away with this. There were pertinent questions about this system of citizens' initiatives, that there is something to be developed here. This was raised by Mr Heinonen and Mr Tolvanen. There has been a debate on this, because we are wondering whether this will lead to an endless swamp of initiative, a counter-initiative, an initiative, a counter-initiative. This is not the idea of this citizens' initiative that those who lose take the initiative and bring it here. What happens then? It will then be an ongoing legislative process back and forth, and it will not, of course, be good for anyone, and certainly not for this house, for its authority, if that happens. In other words, we need to think about it and we have thought about good ideas for developing this citizens' initiative system and, of course, if we have ideas, we will accept them. Could it be someone like that, here were these ideas put forward, that it must be essentially different or someone else, what the habit is, then, of course, it is worth going through. Mr Tolvanen also drew attention to the issue of these accompanying laws and to the need to go through them properly. It is the task of this house — no matter what you think about it — to do the job properly. We have the opportunity to disagree, we have the opportunity to vote, and then when we vote, everyone will tell us their position.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u104	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u105	Madam President! On the basis of the citizens' initiative, the Christian Democrats did not support the change of the marriage law to gender-neutral, and we consider the proposed accompanying laws to be extremely problematic. Unless otherwise decided by this Parliament, the Act amending the Marriage Act and the Associated Laws will enter into force on 1.3. in 2017. According to the Government proposal, a registered partnership could now be converted into a marriage by the joint notification of the parties to the partnership to the Local Register Office. We do not consider it acceptable to marry with a mere notification procedure. We believe that those who marry should continue to give marriage vows in the presence of the Witnesses. It is missing in connection with a registered partnership. Madam President! According to the proposal, a registered partnership would remain in force as an official form of a partnership for those who have already registered their partnerships. However, new registrations would no longer be made. The intention to register couples registered abroad in Finland is to add confusion to the situation, even if there is no longer such law in Finland. This raises the question of equal treatment. Madam President! The Government proposal estimates that the workload of the Local Register Office may increase temporarily with increased civil marriages, but no greater increase is believed. The motion ignores the fact that the Christian churches, which do most of the marriage ceremony, have not yet formed a position on the new situation. It is possible that, as a result of the separation of the concept of marriage, some churches give up the right to marry. This would significantly increase the costs of Local Register Offices. An estimate of the rising costs of Local Register Offices can only be made crediblely when the decisions of the churches are known. Madam President! An amendment to the Freedom of Religion Act has been included in the proposal. According to the presentation, the mother alone could no longer decide to include the child in the religious community if the guardians disagree with each other, but would need a common view of the guardians. This change would affect all the families of our country, not just the relationships of two women or two men. The right to belong to a religious community is a human and fundamental right of the child. The proposal would increase rootlessness and nonreligiousness and contribute to reducing the positive freedom of religion. It would also make it difficult for children to raise values in homes and schools. The amendment of the law is of major importance and would, in our view, require an appropriate consultation and an impact assessment. Madam President! In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, the preparation of the proposal does not meet the criteria for good governance. The proposal lacks cross-sectoral assessments of impacts related to different administrative sectors, the succession, family law and changes in social security, as well as economic impacts. The changes in the proposal are, in part, of historical and cultural importance and concern fundamental rights, and would therefore require an appropriate wide-ranging consultation and impact assessment. Madam President! The preparation of this proposal has been speeded up. The preparation reflects the view of dealing with major questions of principle as technical details. The KD's parliamentary group does not see the need to speed up legislative changes and we will propose to reject them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u106	Madam President! We have spoken for and against, and I am somewhat surprised that there is somehow one parliamentary group here who has no right to express and justify its own conviction. I do think it is a flagrant reduction of democracy. Green can be green and red can be red. A Christian Democrat can also express his own view of the world and his faith and vision based on it; there must also be room for it in this society. There was a debate here a moment ago on racism, and we all felt that all forms of racism should be combated. I feel it very, well, I would like to use the word as an insult that I should not express my faith. It goes to mental racism. Madam President! We are now dealing with a proposal which is a so-called accompanying law based on the decisions of the last Parliament. Each parliament in turn legislates and amends the laws of previous parliaments, amends them, even cancels them, as this government, a six-month-old government, has already brought two proposals for the withdrawal of the law. I see no problem with the fact that if this Parliament considers it so, it will have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment to the Marriage Act last season. It's perfectly possible. According to the report I received last season, the marriage law amendment affects nearly 200 laws and regulations. And that is very interesting how we are doing in this house without an assessment of legislation with such a large impact on change. Then there was talk of the role and role of citizens' initiatives. I share the concern that if the citizens' initiative can directly bypass the normal legislative procedure, then we will have a problem with this citizens' initiative law. The entire cross-administrative, normal inter-ministerial preparation was not done in this amendment of the marriage law. It was passed by all normal practices. Now we are at the point where there will be between 20 and 30 laws which will therefore affect 200 laws and regulations, and we will now have to have a debate here what their possible impact will be. Well, the next megatrend — this is what future researchers say — is neutrality. Tolerance has now been left behind in a certain way as a trend because the powerful drivers of tolerance shot themselves in the foot when they did not tolerate those who did not tolerate them. Now we are facing a new trend, a neutrality where no one is anything, identities disappear, Finns are no longer Finns, they are Helsinkiers, they are choirmen or Londoners or something. People lose their identity. It is the one we have before us when we take this so-called neutrality road. Mr President! I appreciate the debate, I appreciate the mutual respect, I appreciate the dignity of us here addressing each other, in this sense I belong to the men of the old covenant. I believe that if we discuss and accept the facts of all these matters in peace — as in the case of all other laws, we listen to each other, carry out studies and incorporate those effects into the decision-making process — then here too and in these accompanying laws we should accept the reality that we are facing, that we have a massive number of laws now that are affected by this without assessing their consequences. This makes me sad. It has already been well said what this law is about to affect, and it is quite clear for us, the Christian Democrats, that marriage is an institution which is one of the fundamental institutions with a very special place in society. That's what we're here to defend. I don't think there's anyone here who can claim that all relationships are equal. Each of us has relationships that are different. We believe that the special role of marriage in society stems from this very principle, that there is one important relationship that is important for social protection. Now we have decided to abandon this principle in the previous period. It would not be a bad thing to cancel when a decision has been taken that will change society in such a significant way. Madam President! Mr. Attorney General, I appreciate your honesty, it impresses me very much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u107	Madam President! Sometimes it seems that we have not had this debate during the last period. Have we not had this debate and democracy is not acceptable? This is a rather simple question. Why is it bad for Finland to respect human rights? Why is it bad that love belongs to everyone? I just want to say to this end that many representatives of the Finns may become hysterical when they talk about Islam, for example, and when they talk about religious conservativeism — Mika Niiko’s text sounded like a rather Islamic text. Sometimes I feel like you guys are copies of each other. As I said, this is quite simple, love belongs to everyone, and Finland is a country where human rights are realised, and it is great that we are moving forward on this issue, no matter what the opponents say. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u108	Mr President! Representative Yanar, love belongs to everyone, but speaking the truth also belongs to everyone. We all have freedom of speech, as we heard here. If you do not know that yet, there have been few references to the Bible in Parliament since the foundation. Not much here. Darwin has not been quoted, but the Bible is even more so. I wanted to reply again to Mr Razmyar, you spoke about these human rights — I think he has already left — as the translation is being carried forward. This is also seen as a human rights and equality issue. I'm gonna ask you where they're gonna draw that line. Every time laws are made, it's the wrong way to tilt it somewhere. We know that, we are legislators, we restrict people's lives in one way or another. I do not believe that we have been limited from a human rights point of view. I would still like to say to Mr Mustajärvi, even though he is not here: you too have your job from God, the authority is God-appointed. We all have our own mission here. In that sense, I would like to point out this point of view because you have come too far.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u109	I would remind the representatives that it is customary to call others in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u110	Mr President! I very much appreciate Mr Laukka, who has already made an impression in a very short period of time on many issues, particularly the fight against poverty. I am a little sad that some people feel that their own religious convictions are somehow in this plight when human rights are extended — that is not the case. All of us have freedom of speech, all of us have the freedom to live as we wish. I think it is a little self-promotion if you think that, on the basis of my religious convictions, I could limit the human rights of other people, the equal right to marriage. We — and you, Mr Laukkanen — have the right to live in our own way. It is the equal legislation for human rights and the rule of law, in which secular law is equal to all, that guarantees your right to live just as you do. It strengthens the rights of religious communities, different communities to express themselves in public debate when diversity is allowed. It strengthens atheistic communities, strengthens the rights of various minorities, and I see nothing at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u111	Mr President! Just like Mr Niinistö said. This mutual respect and dialogue are important here. It is good that we are talking about human rights, that we are extending that concept and moving forward on those issues. I do not believe that, on this issue of human rights, we are still fully acquainted with each other, all of which it contains. I am constantly visiting Europe in the face of various human rights issues. I have been sitting in IONS for four years talking about global human rights — they are very familiar to me. Mr President! When these changes, which we are now dealing with, are so extensive that we are doing wrong to people if we do not deal with them as widely as they require, we are, as it were, lowering our own level of legislation, and I would also like to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u112	Mr President! This is where Yanar spoke of Islamists and hysteria, and here in earlier speeches there was talk of this valuable language. I personally agree that we are in Parliament, that this is not a hollipop. But I don't think Islamist, hysteria and such terms are terribly nice. Do you have a problem with Islam? Is that a bad thing, then? Somehow I didn't quite understand that we were somehow hysterical. In my opinion, we have been quite calm here, and now I too am calm here, and the Minister has been calm. It's good to make sure the pot doesn't beat the pot, too, or how it goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u113	Madam President! It is a very good, important and high time for Finland's family legislation to be brought into this modern state. Above all, it is about fundamental rights, it is about equality, and it is about freedom. It's not a matter of conscience. It is an equal Finnish society in which every single Finnish family has the opportunity to live a normal life regardless of sexual orientation. I really hope that Parliament will deal quickly with these necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u114	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Niikko for a very good speech. I agree with that and support the views of the representative. Mr Yanar, I would like to ask whether we were, a year ago, an Islamic or Islamic state, because it is a question of the law in force. If we had been here now to suggest polygamy, it is in that Sharia law, and it is Islamist. I am also surprised, Mr Toivola, that he took a negative view of the fact that Minister Lindström said his own opinion. I respect the fact that Parliament will continue to be allowed to express its own opinion, whether it is the result of atheism or atheism or something else. And have we really wondered whether this is a child’s right to father and mother or an adult’s right to a child? That's really what we should discuss. Investigations
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u115	Madam Speaker! Now, if I briefly respond to this, I evidently understood in the Minister’s opening statement this one word that was meant to be a joke and referred to one of my previous writings incorrectly, and I took it only because — not because people should not have personal convictions or opinions. But what I was actually trying to justify in the speech is that when a new law comes into being based on human rights and equality, it is not only a technical law, but also a cultural change that supports these human rights and equality. And then we can talk about women's rights or the rights and status of different ethnic groups and what kind of language we can use. My wish is that this will also contribute to cultural change, that we may have new limits on what is, as it were, part of freedom of opinion... [President MariaLohela: I am sorry,Mr.Toivola,I ask that you speak from this point of view,so that there is a vote. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u118	Madam President! It was raised here that it is a question of the child’s right to both parents. In this debate, it should be remembered that for various reasons there are already children who may not have either parent, and for various reasons there are children who live with only one parent at the moment. Equality marriage law does not bring any more gay couples or gay families or any more children who live in a gay family. They're already there. We are talking about the right to be equal. And if a child’s right is spoken of, why should the child be deprived of the right that his family and his parents who care for him have the same right as all other parents?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u119	Madam President! Here again, as in the last term of government, this issue of human rights has been used as a justification. I do not quite understand how the representatives interpret human rights. There's a lot of singles in the world. Some of them have chosen life as singles themselves. There are also many single people in the world who would like to get married, but if there is no other party who will agree to it, then should we now legislate that they too should have the right to marry — if we take this issue of human rights and fundamental rights very far. Then there has also been an appeal to this restriction of love — the restriction of love. All I'm saying is that Parliament can't promote or slow down love. I am very pleased that this is not in the hands of Minister of Justice Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u120	Mr President! I would like to respond, or actually take up, this word for human rights. There were earlier speeches saying that the child's human rights and fundamental rights are the right of mother and father. There is no such entry in any human rights law or agreement. But there is a record that the child is entitled to a guardian. It is a fundamental right and human rights for a child. Mr President! I do not believe that the starting point for legislation should be the division of people into different categories. I do not believe that the debate by the legislators on this whole legislative amendment should be based on a lack of respect for different beliefs, views or unconvincedness. What is tolerance? I guess that's respect for each other. Surely it does not justify condoning views based on one's own values and condemning others. I myself am a member of the Christian Church, and I intend to continue to be,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u121	Mr President! However, I would now like this debate to remain relevant, no matter what we think about it — for, against or something in between. That we talk about it, that we don't call people names, that we don't point at them. Everyone has their own conviction, and tolerance is needed here in the Chamber, and, as I said in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this will be properly dealt with. But now I would bother the Minister as much as he is present: when this citizens' initiative came in last season, as a long-standing lawman, he saw that this matter is not being dealt with by changing two words, as was claimed in that citizens' initiative. And now, in this motion, these accompanying laws which you have brought here. I know there's more coming from the STM. Do you have any idea how much you're getting out of there? Will the O.M. have any additional laws, and with what timetable? So we can get a little strain on this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u122	Mr President! Listening to this debate will make me feel quite déjà vu from listening to this similar debate last season. Here Mr Oinonen was concerned that this debate took time from other issues last season. So it is now time to legislate through these laws quickly — these important laws, which were decided last season — so that we no longer have to discuss this issue, but that equality, equality and human rights in Finland will finally be realised. I would like to ask the Minister why it is so uncertain in this way that these laws and the actual equal marriage law will not come into force until March 2017, when the government has passed other laws with much weaker preparation, with a fast schedule. Would this not be a matter of urgency if equality and equality were to be realised as quickly as possible in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u123	Mr President! According to Article 11 of the Constitution, freedom of religion and conscience includes the right to recognise and practice religion. Without offending anyone, everyone here is allowed to have a mind for what they want. These are the things that are either "yes" or "no". But my faith is that marriage is a marriage between a man and a woman. As the decision-maker, each one of us, myself and others, is responsible for his speeches and actions on this matter too. It does seem wonderful that we are contrary to human rights, but it is this law that stresses that I want with respect for human rights, that this is for me such a concept of human rights that you should respect. Of course, again, I have to respect the other side. As a legislator, I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u124	Madam President! Today, there is a lot of talk of conviction and conscience in the hall. I personally feel that the legislator must be able to distinguish between his own personal conviction and the role of the legislator for the pure reason that every single person must be treated equally before the law, regardless of his sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u125	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u126	Mr President! It may be that I speak against my better knowledge, but when Mr Sarkkinen asked why it was only 1 March 2017, I understand that this was the decision of Parliament and this is what this is based on. It is not something that is being slowed down or anything, it is a parliamentary decision, and it is quite logical that it is being respected as well as all the accompanying laws relating to it, including these. Then, on the other hand, the question put by Mr Tolvanen about these other changes: according to what I have, when that law was actually adopted during the previous Parliament, there was a rather tight timetable for the OM to prepare these. They've done all the work they can do. Then there is something to be done on the STM side. At least I have an understanding that changes in legislation on social security and social welfare and health services will come at a later stage but will still be the same again before this date on 1 March 2017. This is what I have.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u127	Looks like there's still a desire to debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u128	President! After all, this is a truly historic moment, and the law of equal marriage is being implemented. It is an historic moment for equality and it is an historic moment for democracy. But, as has been heard in this Chamber, today, this law is also a powerful voice. A similar question 20 years ago was an EU solution. I have a great deal of respect for those who were defeated in this referendum but left it behind. It was real patriotism. My own experience is that many of those who have strongly opposed this law have also moved forward in life, and I hope that the rest of them will feel that they have not been personally or their convictions violated, discriminated against or sidelined, even though their own cause has not won. In these times, we face great challenges and great responsibilities in making the nation succeed again. We must not and do not have the right to waste our resources to dig, tong, toil and tear up the decisions that have already been taken, and now we must put them to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u129	Madam President! Today we are dealing with a very important and even hot legislative amendment. There may be a wide variety of views on this matter, as has been the case. For me, marriage as an institution is a very sacred thing. I don't think a marriage between two men or two women can be a marriage. It may be a couple, for example. But when two people love each other, can one of us say no? Without love, the world would be very cold, and I would not wish it on anyone. Let each one love anyone, whatever, but marriage is always a marriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u130	Mr President! Here Mr Toivola spoke about cultural change, and Parliament can never change culture; in general it is so that culture changes parliament, and this debate is also the result of the social change that has taken place very quickly. In Sweden, where culture in this area is much longer than in Finland — the kind of culture they have wanted — there are also these problems that have arisen when children are no longer told whether they are girls or boys, but are given time to find out who they are themselves. According to the latest study in Sweden, millions of crowns are being used for the identity problems of these teenage girls and boys when they cannot clearly identify themselves with who they really are. I am very concerned about this. New ops, on the basis of the curriculum, are also encouraging teachers not to invite children to their sex
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u131	Mr President! As far as cultural change is concerned, I think that it is quite reciprocal: sometimes we have situations in society where we believe that legislation, as it were, sets up a new period of time and starts creating cultural change, and sometimes it becomes the other way round, that things are created in society, which are retrieving in Parliament, and that they give rise to decisions. But I would still have gone to these presentations: Just such a detailed correction, when there is also this translation becoming a change from this forced marriage and quite a lot I have received a message about the use of the word transsexual in the text of the law, so there has been a wish that this wording could be translated into transgender. That would be a more correct and respectful and descriptive term, and this is an important detail that I wanted to bring to the attention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u132	Mr President! Again, I would be more concerned that children are forced into a particular mold on the basis of gender rather than letting children be exactly what they are, but based on what sex they represent, their upbringing is then controlled. And I believe that more nausea in society is caused by such very strict sex standards, which then distress human individuality and social freedom.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u133	Mr President! Here Mr Pelkonen took the view that decisions should not be taken on the basis of his own convictions, but I would like to remind Parliament that there is no equality of values. There is no room that there are no values or some conviction or some idea of how things should be done, and it cannot be said that everyone must not act exactly how they feel right. No law changes the fact that only a man and a woman can reproduce according to the natural order, and I think we should rejoice that we are men and women, and a man is raised with men, and a mother shows her daughter what it is to be a woman. That is why these gender roles are very important. And Mrs Harakka raised this point that 20 years ago, when she joined the EU. By the way, I thought it was the wrong decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u134	Finally, Mr Kymäläinen and Mr Meri, and then move on to the actual speeches that have been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u135	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and the Government for having these accompanying laws on the table. It is a pity that this debate starts at the beginning, as it were, of what was done last season. In my opinion, this is no longer the time for a debate on conviction, but now is the time for a government proposal in a referral debate, and this debate should, above all, inform the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in this debate. The question of paternity law when the minister is present: there will be no change or similar concept for same-sex couples under paternity law. Therefore, same-sex couples are placed in an unequal position with regard to the legislation on parenthood. Is there going to be a paternity act?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u136	Mr. Speaker! I would have asked now that the Minister is present — I will make a speech on these payments separately later. In the past, when I have also been a civil marriage partner, I have registered relationships and I know what it is in practice, and it has often been hoped in the Local Register Offices that the investigation and marriage of obstacles to civil marriage might be behind a small fee, and now these notifications are perhaps also coming under this new law and it employs local register offices. Now that we are looking for these funding instruments, we could think about this, and we have left a written question with Juho Eerola about this, but it was not very much promised. The church also collects church tax. That would be one such small fee, an examination of obstacles and a small fee. Let's talk about a couple of ten bucks. I would like to see this matter taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u137	Mr Multala, your request for the floor did not appear on the machine here just now, but while you are still asking for it, you will be allowed to speak again. Here you go!
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now I would also like to take this opportunity while the Minister is still here. With regard to this second citizens' initiative, a genuine marriage: I understand that it is in line with current legislation, and I wonder whether if this citizens' initiative moves forward to Parliament before these current laws are in the form of law, how should we deal with this? Isn't there some kind of conflict? Then I would also like to say that I personally at least appreciate Christian values, even though I do not belong to the church and am not in the faith. In this debate, however, these religious arguments are overemphasizing. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber is of the opinion that freedom of religion is not an important value. However, it must be remembered that this is a matter of religious freedom, not an obligation, and every adult can continue to decide for himself if he wishes to be a member of the religious community. I would also say to Mr Östman that singles have the right to marry at the moment. Now this right will also be fulfilled
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u139	The real speech, Mrs Lehto, and I would like to make five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u140	Mr President! With the adoption of an equal marriage law, we will also have to deal with these amendments to the accompanying legislation. I have not been pleased with the amendment of the law, so the adoption of these accompanying laws is not a big deal for me. In accordance with the Government Programme, the assessment of child effects should be included in all legislation on children before accompanying laws can be enacted. The impact assessment of children is based on the requirement under the Convention on the Rights of the Child to give priority to the best interests of the child in all decisions affecting children. The adoption right of same-sex spouses should not be a question of the emotional needs and causes of adults, but of the child’s right to both parents. A child must have the right to both father and mother. Reasons based on the adoption right of persons of the same sex shall not go beyond the best interests of the child. For couples of the same sex, the problems of having a baby are not medical, but are due to their sexual orientation. Although our society is moving in a more liberal direction and parents of the same sex are increasing, children of rainbow families may still experience more bullying and discrimination than usual. Therefore, the child’s opinion on adoption and its effects should be clarified according to his or her age and level of development when deciding on matters. The granting of adoption rights to same-sex couples may also have a negative impact on the adoption opportunities of heterosexual couples abroad. Russia, for example, does not allow children to be adopted in countries where gay marriages are allowed. There are no changes to the Fertility Treatment Act, and that is good. Fertility treatments are specifically designed to help childless couples who cannot have children in a natural way. It is the treatment that is at stake. Gay couples are not a health problem but a problem of sexual behavior. Mr President! According to the Marriage Act, marriages are made by marriage and those who are married are forced to express their will to take their partners as their marriage mates to love them for better or for worse in the presence of witnesses. However, according to the draft of the Ministry of Justice, those who have registered their relationships would be allowed to marry simply by means of a notification procedure without being married and without any expression of commitment. However, I think it is important for the principle of equality to be implemented that, if the amendments to the law are adopted, we treat all those intending to marry in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u141	Mr President! Since last spring, when I came to the Chamber as a new Member of Parliament, I have, in fact, quite often sat here with great sadness. And tonight has been one of those. I wonder where is the appreciation and respect for one another of our parliamentarians, where is the tolerance. And sometimes it seems that those representatives, those people who talk about tolerance, are the most intolerant of all to others who think otherwise. At some point I wrote an opinion on whether Finland still has the right to express its own opinion. It seems that when we agree with the current mainstreames, the fashion currents, we are as good as okay, yeah, all right, we are tolerated. But then, if we want to have a different opinion, it is questionable what caste we belong to. There was talk of rhetoric. I have heard a lot of rhetoric in this Chamber and a lot of voices. And I would ask, Is not every man, including a representative of parliament and a minister, entitled to his own opinion and to express it? It was said that there should be no religious rhetoric, but have you thought that there is atheistic philosophy in this Chamber all the time, liberal theology, when the little one is scratching that surface? The so-called gender theory, which is an old theory, but from behind the pond, is constantly prevalent. It says, among other things, that we want to eliminate gender differences, to bring this neutrality. Let's be like love for all, and no one's going anywhere anymore. Values are losing. When do we really tolerate being different and being able to respect one another? No child impact assessment was carried out last autumn when the gender-neutral marriage law was adopted. It's a factual fact. It is not just the opinion of the Christian Democrats, but Parliament itself has made it compulsory that any bill which in any way affects children and their rights should carry out child impact assessments as to how they affect children. They were not made, and that is the real thing. I would therefore ask that this be reviewed and reconsidered in the Ministry. Marriage, as it currently stands, is a unit between man and woman, and it has always been a basic unit of society, because only there is a natural possibility for the continuation of the family and only there will the child have the opportunity to grow and develop with his own mother and father. I do not understand why marriage as a marriage between a man and a woman should not be a separate unit. People of the same sex could have a couple marriage or even a contract union. Personally, I have always thought that in this way, in the frame of separate marriages — the man and woman of marriage and, for example, the same sex of the couple — one could best serve the interests of all. If we think that it was said then last year that marriage will not change with any sexual neutral marriage, then this idea in the world will be laughed at. Supporters of a gender-neutral marriage have openly said that it will change and certainly will change and that is their goal. And now, before that law is even in force, we are being presented with a law in which those in a registered partnership could, as it were, slide into marriage only by their own announcement, which is the first significant change we have at hand. Marriage has always been an alliance made in the presence of the Witnesses, and it gives an oath. Mr President! We were talking about the five-minute speeches. Well, maybe I'll go on with the next one, 'cause from the beginning of the night... [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : The representative may continue if not. That's not a ban. It's a recommendation, but it's not a ban. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u144	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the previous Parliament for the historic and important decision to establish an equal marriage law and also to the government for respecting the decision of the previous Parliament, although I know that presenting the law is a difficult matter for some of the government. This decision has an important practical significance for many, but also a very important symbolic value for the rainbow people and society as a whole. By decision, Finland was transferred to a group of countries that respected progressive equality and human rights. We are all entitled to an opinion, but the law must be based on equality and equality before the law. Churches make their own decisions. Now, here in Parliament, we are enacting secular laws, and before the law all people must be equal. It is a little sad that we have still been discussing the equal marriage law that has already been decided here today, although the main focus should now be on how this law and the accompanying laws are to be implemented. There has been talk of children and children's rights here today. Personally, I see that the child’s advantage is loving parents, and it’s great if the child has two loving parents, whatever their sex. It's more than a lot of kids have. However, from the point of view of equality and human rights, even after these proposed amendments, legislation is not fully in place. In particular, there is a need for revision of the legislation on the legal reinforcement of gender, i.e. the transfiguration, which, during the previous government, was well prepared for reform and the final report of the expert group was submitted in May. A more comprehensive reform of the law would be appropriate now that, in any event, the law is being opened with the changes required by the law on equal marriage. There is a need for reform in the Transgender Act for the legal reinforcement of gender, as current legislation violates the sovereignty of transgender people. Translaki should be reformed in such a way that the strengthening of the legal sex takes place through the personal announcement of the person in a smooth and quick manner. The confirmation of the legal sex shall not be conditional on infertility or on any medical treatment, procedure, diagnosis or opinion. A distinction should also be made between strengthening the legal sex and possible medical treatment. Support and calls for amendments to the transfiguration have also been given internationally, and many countries have already corrected their legislation in this respect. On 22 April 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution encouraging Member States to adopt a rapid, transparent and achievable procedure to strengthen their legal sex and to abolish medical conditions such as the requirement for infertility and mental health diagnosis and the requirement of singleness. At its General Assembly, which ended last week, the World Medical Association also stated that everyone has the right to determine his or her own sex without any forced or behavioural adjustment measures. The legislation must be reformed so that those who strengthen their gender are no longer required to become infertile, to have a psychiatric diagnosis, to have a stereotyped gender role or to give up marriage. The change in the law now takes us in the right direction, because in the proposal before us, the law on the strengthening of transgender sex would remove the condition that the person requesting sex confirmation should not be in a marriage or registered partnership. So it's the right direction, but it's still a long way to go. Hopefully, the present Parliament will continue to work to promote equality and human rights and will not only introduce the changes required by the equal marriage law, but also other necessary changes to the transfiguration at the same time as the law is now being opened. The necessary preparatory work has already been done. There may seem to be some small or small problems in the Translaw, and some may belittle the seriousness of the problems in the Translaw. However, for those concerned and for those close to them, these are extremely serious shortcomings. It is about their sovereignty and human rights. The articles of the law have a direct and immediate impact on the lives and well-being of transhuman beings. I see no reason why there should be no immediate correction of the irregularities in the law when the necessary preparatory work has already been done to a large extent and when this issue is not even costing anything. I therefore appeal to Parliament and the government to respect human self-determination and human rights and to begin immediately to prepare for a wider reform of the trans-law now that the law is open. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will take this into account in its work.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u145	Mr President! I am pleased that this package is finally here. I have seen many stages in this Chamber when the legal status of sexual and gender minorities has been equalised by a piece of the matter and now another step is being taken. In my opinion, this law is specifically about equality before the law, and that is why it is important as a law. Marriage, on the other hand, is complex. Some of us think of it as legal and others as ecclesiastical. And this actually creates situations in which we talk past each other. If it is considered that a registered partnership or a partnership is sufficient and is equal to a marriage, it is contradictory to criticise the fact that this registered relationship can, as it were, slide into a marriage. If this sliding and easy procedure should not be, then it is said that a couple or a registered partnership was not quite equal after all, but that marriage is more in front of the law. The word "marriage" also has symbolic meaning. That is why equal marriage law is important as a whole. In this reform, secular power, especially secular power, says aloud that the alliances in which one wants to commit to another, regardless of sex and sexual orientation, are equally valuable and have the same rights and responsibilities for another person. Equality and equality are always about laws and attitudes. And that is why equality work, equality work, is still needed on both fronts. Religion and love have also been mentioned in this Chamber. I am happy to leave them to people's private lives, but so much I want to address the issue that the Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, but our secular power and constitutions are based on the fact that power comes from the people, not from God, no matter what kind of god they are. However, I think there will be a few flaws in this good legislative package and in the whole. The assumption of fatherhood is becoming more and more rigid than a straight couple. Under this law, couples of the same sex have the right to adopt a child together, such as a straight couple, and this is a good step forward. But then, if we compare: a heterosexual couple can get into fertility treatment as a couple, but women of the same sex cannot receive fertility treatment as a couple, only as self - assuming women. However, in that same relationship they may receive these treatments, but they cannot have them together, and this is somehow incomprehensible. I think that we are putting our heads in the sand: we are allowing a situation that is real in living life, but we are not brave enough to write it into law. In my opinion, the law improves somewhat in so far as the prohibition of singleness is abolished and the claim for the consent of the spouse is removed. Nevertheless, I hope that the overall reform of the transfiguration that has been prepared during the previous parliamentary term will be brought to this Chamber as a whole. I think that Mr Sarkkinen spoke very wisely about those grounds and the problem points, and that is why I will not repeat the same things again, because I could not have said them as well. Thank you for taking the floor. In the name of freedom of religion and in the name of equality between parents, I am pleased that in the future the decision on the religious status of the child will require the consent of both parents. I think it's a modern relationship, no matter what kind of couple it is. Both parents decide together what the status of a child in this situation is when we may not yet be able to enter into the system where these matters would only be decided as an adult and personally. The very nature of human rights has also been considered in this Chamber. I believe that it is defined by the Constitution and by the human rights treaties, which is what we are committed to. However, what is essential in people’s lives is that justice or freedom does not violate the right or freedom of another person. As far as freedom of expression of opinion is concerned, which has also been discussed in this Chamber today, I believe that freedom of expression is part of the right of the other to express an objection, and that is something that is sometimes forgotten in this freedom of expression. We've been talking about impact assessments. — President, two words. — This law is like many other laws that come into this hall. They have not been subject to very thorough impact assessments, and I hope that this criticism of effectiveness, which has been used today in this Chamber, will be used for the many laws that have already come to us in this Chamber and which, unfortunately, may yet come.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u146	Mr President! And the listeners here are all about it! I myself have wondered — I have not been in the previous reading when this matter was discussed — and I have not really understood the legal need for this amendment to the law in the first place, because we have the same sex's option to register their relationships. Here a representative spoke of the fact that marriage was originally an economic institution, which had already been secured in this registered partnership and the legal effects of the spouses had been secured on the basis of the law on registered partnerships. I myself think that politics and religion should not be so strongly confused, but I understand the convictions and concerns of many people, especially about the rights of children to father and mother and the model of man and woman. Here Mr Huhtasaari raised the essential issue: the right of the child to father and mother rather than the right of parents to have a child. I myself have become childless and accept it; I have no greater right to have children than anyone else. That's what I'm talking about. However, we must accept such things in this society that, before the elections and even after the elections, many elderly people in particular have been in contact with me that what I think about this matter and do I understand that they are particularly concerned about these changes in the status of the child. That is why I believe that we should carry out this impact assessment, especially for our children. Somehow, in the recent debate, it has become apparent that it is not terribly good and fashionable to be in favour of traditional values. Here — and I will return to the role of this Local Register Office in this law — Östman and Essayah there one day did indeed point out that religious communities may refuse to marry. It is a fact that there will then be more congestion in the local register offices and there should be sufficient resources. That is where I said earlier that I myself have been a civil marriage partner for years and registered hundreds of couples and same-sex persons, and I know that there is quite a lot of work to do, especially in the field of the examination of obstacles and also in the investigation of obstacles to foreign couples. This is done completely free of charge as a civil servant, so this should really be addressed — I know that there is a very broad support for this at the Local Register Office, but there is a lack of political will — this has often been brought to the attention of the Ministry by the Local Register Office. Even the church takes church tax — sometimes it has been said that why not take the payment for marriage. We pay every time we get a so-called old diploma, I think it's 4.50, and no one has questioned it. We understand that costs are incurred by the authorities. Then one of the things that left me a little distracted in the process of abandoning the registration of a partnership is that this is now partly going to remain in force, that is to say, it is simply abolishing these founding provisions. This leaves two systems overlap between those who have already registered their relationships. So in the future, we will have to play with these two systems. Then I would think about that equality from another point of view — this was the idea that came to me last night: Now we have a situation where we have people of the same sex who are allowed to choose it, as they say here, if they do not want to marry for reasons of principle, for example. So now they have this kind of freedom of choice, i.e. that they are in this kind of registered so-called. in a civil relationship or they are married, and then men and women are married. There is some strange logic here, and over the decades the application of these two laws can become a problem. Indeed, as a personal opinion, I cannot accept this package of laws, particularly with regard to the adoption of children. I will not comment on these matters of transfiguration and on them — I understand their need very well. But without this impact assessment on children, I dare not go along with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u147	Mr President! In the referral debate, there is a discussion of the accompanying laws required for the amendment of the Marriage Act, and I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for the fact that these accompanying laws will now be on the table. An equal marriage law is in favour of reducing red tape and thus creating savings. All married couples would be legally on the same line in all situations. The legal status of each pair in Finland would be clearly and uniformly defined. Bureaucracy would be significantly reduced as the need to separate people from registered spouses and married couples would be removed. The same last name without a separate application will help people living together at the moment. At the moment, the couple registering their relationship have to apply separately to the Local Register Office for the same last name and pay an administrative fee for it. This takes time and resources for nothing. All couples who formalise their relationships would thus have the same right to a common last name without unnecessary bureaucracy and spending money. With the equal marriage law, people will be entitled to be considered adoptive parents together, not one at a time. People are no longer forced to promote sexual orientation. At present, the category of registered partnerships can be deleted from the population register, different registers of persons and similar registers. In future, representatives of sexual minorities will not have to indirectly express their sexual orientation in the exercise of marital status. The law will provide security for the children of rainbow families. Thousands of Finnish children live in rainbow families. Studies show that the main challenges facing these families are the attitude of the surrounding society. An equal marriage law would send a clear message to these children, their parents and their immediate surroundings that their family is as valuable and as good as any other family. The law does not mean questioning the traditional institution of marriage. The Marriage Act entered into force in Finland in 1929 and has since been amended several times. Marriage law has adapted to the needs of society in the past, just like any other law. For the time being, Finland is the only Nordic country where people of the same sex cannot marry. According to the rule of equality contained in the Finnish Constitution, people are equal before the law. No one shall be placed in a different position on grounds of sex, age, origin, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability or any other reason relating to a person without an acceptable basis. According to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all people are born free and equal in value and rights. They have been given reason and conscience, and they must act toward one another in a spirit of brotherhood. Human rights organisations have expressed, for example, the problem that the paternity assumption under the paternity law does not yet change or a similar concept for couples of the same sex. Therefore, same-sex couples are placed in an unequal position with regard to the legislation on parenthood. There is a clear need for change in this regard. This day's debate brought up the Evangelical Lutheran Church and its membership in Mr. Oinonen's case. In his speech, Congressman Oinonen said that many church members have resigned after bishops have advocated or supported this equal marriage law as their own view. It must be remembered that the other way around this movement took place. Some members of the church resigned because of very strong negative positions against the equal marriage law. Every member of the church, every member of the congregation, has the right to make its own decisions on the basis of its own convictions, to which one wishes to belong and to which one does not wish to belong, and it is not our task in this Chamber to deal with it any further. Remember that there are also many people in the Evangelical Lutheran Church, members, who are in favour of an equal marriage law. This membership of the congregation does not exclude that possibility from anyone. Representative Oinonen said that a year went by during the last term of the government to discuss this equal marriage law. Perhaps this was the case with the opposition and, in particular, with Mr Oinonen, but, during that year, quite a few laws were passed, even though it was felt that the decision-making process might have been misled, creating the impression that this was the only thing that Parliament would have had important or in the course of the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u148	Mr President! It is a pleasure and an honour to be involved when Finland finally takes its place among civilized countries, as a country based on equality, human dignity and human rights, and not on the very selective and purpose-oriented interpretation of ancient writings. Niikko, Oinonen, Östman, and associates, have you really read your Bible only in points that support your own preconception and forgotten all the other verses? The Bible’s view of marriage, relationship and love between two people is at least diverse and very contradictory. But we are not here today to discuss the Bible explanation, but the Finnish legislation and the position of Finns before the law — all Finns. It is a pity that Finland was not a pioneer of equality this time, but better late than it was then. It only saddens me that I was not very close to a late relative who often cared for me when I was a little boy, had to see this day, be a full Finnish citizen and marry someone he loved. Mr President! There has been talk of values here, as if conservative values were the right values. Congressman Tanus, also tolerance and freeness of speech are values, right values. Tolerance is not worthless, but a strong value base on which, for example, I have built my own life, a principle for which I work, because I want Finland to be a good place to live for all of us. Mr President! In addition to the Bible, there has been talk of children, which is understandable. After all, marriage law is related to, among other things, paternity law and adoption law. Here too many times the claim has been made that a child needs to be raised by a man and a woman or that there is something missing from her development that she becomes somehow different. However, this claim is incorrect. Researchers at the University of Colorado went through 19,000 studies and articles evaluating the effects of parents’ gender and came to an unambiguous conclusion: parents’ sex or single parenthood has no effect on children’s behavior, psychological qualities or school success. 19,000 studies — there are impact assessments for you. Of course, there are scientists who may disagree, and I know that many people here are also, or at least read, selectively. But there is a considerable risk that you may be wrong. The facts are not questions of opinion, human rights are not questions of opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u149	Mr President! Last season, Parliament adopted an equal marriage law, and it is an honour to be here to support this transposition. Last season, the law was historically adopted as the first citizens' initiative in Finland. The power of this popular movement is well illustrated by the fact that the citizens' initiative for an equal marriage already received more than 100,000 signatures on its first day. This well shows that this decision has the strong will of the Finnish people and the act is one of the most important democratic demonstrations of power in Finnish history. I am glad that with these amendments to the law we are taking a significant and progressive step towards a more equal and equal Finland. The law has rightly been defended here, too, from the point of view of equality and human rights, but this law and these reforms also play a much greater and more fundamental role for our society as a whole and its cornerstones. "People are equal in law. No one shall be placed in a different position on grounds of sex, age, origin, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability or any other reason relating to a person without an acceptable basis." So that is what our Constitution says. I therefore believe that by adopting these legislative amendments proposed by the Government and by maintaining the decision of the previous Parliament on equal marriage law, it is more and more in line with and strengthening the Finnish Constitution. Moreover, this increases the equality of our nation and the happiness of people, and even here those who are against many reforms should remember that these entries are not out of place, quite the contrary. I would also like to thank all the people who have courageously worked for this citizens' initiative, first and foremost, but more broadly for human rights and justice in our society. I want to be a part of this work as well. These records of the amendment to the Marriage Act show that this work for human rights is also producing results, and fortunately so. But this debate has also shown today that this work is not always easy and it also requires courage. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking you courageous people, the defenders of human rights: thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u150	Mr President! First of all, the representative to the plant must be told that if the Bible is quoted, the tradition, there is a marriage between a man and a woman that is called for. Then, today, a so - called gender neutral Bible is available, in which all the necessary verses have been changed in such a way that it would not conflict with these modern philosophies. The representative of the plant also spoke of tolerance. Then he will certainly tolerate those who think differently of us as well, and so I agree that — 19,000 studies — studies can be interpreted in very many ways, and there are many thousands, tens of thousands, of research sources that tell us quite another thing about the impact on children. But the real reason why I asked to speak was to take a stand on this translation. I have been dealing with transhuman beings and also with young people for my profession and for the rest of the world, and there has always been talk, in fact, until these days, that man is physical, psychological and social, and I would like to continue that spiritual entity as well. In any case, every human being is such an entity, and now they want to get rid of this kind of legal part. I am particularly concerned about our young people, who very easily follow mainstreames and listen to their feelings. When you look at these young people, many people are not very clear about what you are today, what you are tomorrow and what the pace of marching is. I think it is very dangerous to go down the road of separating people from them as if they were a legal part and then being a physical, psychological and social part separately. And it's not just me, it's me. As a doctor, I know that, for example, the brain is still developing for 24 years, up to 25 years, and if you think that it is just like:
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u151	Now, if the representative wishes to continue, I would ask him to move on to this speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u152	Mr President! This is where Congressman Filatov said the word "marriage" is complex. It is perhaps a little difficult to understand because it is one of the oldest concepts and its meaning is quite clear what it means. It didn't exactly open up to me what he meant by this. Then, as far as legislation is concerned, we have a lot of specific legislation that takes account of human condition, situations and status in a specific situation. Take disability law, for example. We have a so-called general law and a special law which is part of such a concept of a hierarchy of fundamental rights standards. Mr President! Marriage law is a special law, it takes into account the speciality and uniqueness of a certain relationship. That is why the fact that it is being changed also has very far-reaching effects, and we have not been prepared to find out about these effects, because when this decision was taken here — but with a rather limited majority — I sat in the gallery at the time following that vote — it was done on the basis of a great deal of emotion, not on the basis of what those facts were behind it. Mr President! However, it is now in force. As Minister Lindström said, this is where we go, and the Ministry of Justice acts according to what has been laid down. But I would like to emphasise that all parliaments in their own time, during their own term of office, change the laws of previous parliaments. That is perfectly normal, and no one should blame or judge for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u153	Mr President! I am rather surprised to have followed this debate on this government proposal. In my opinion, this much spoken love of neighbor and Christianity involves love for one’s neighbor and it involves love for one’s onion. I think marriage is clearly a marriage between a man and a woman. That is what it was created in time, and that is what I think it should be regarded as. As far as this marriage of same sex is concerned, according to the current legislation, this relationship is officially legal, can be registered and has therefore received legal protection in Finland. In my view, the fact that marriage is in due course such a union between man and woman is a sacred thing and should be respected. I do not blame any of the people who have spoken hard in this Chamber. I understand them. But I would like the debate to be a little more civilised in this regard if we were not to accuse others. This is a matter of conviction. I've got it, too. After all, Western civilization is based on Christianity. It is a cold fact. Of course, much evil has been done against Christianity in this world, but the word for which it has been made is good and good. It has kept this world going for a long time, and that is why I am a little surprised at this level of discussion. Mr President! Finally, with regard to the right to adopt children and to change it, I believe that the child should have a genuine opportunity to have a father and a mother. It's an unbreakable right that I wouldn't break. I respect that other opinion, but the world is still such a place that every person at a certain age will have to face the issue of father and mother’s identity. To the fact that this world has become this way, with my weak powers there is nothing I can do. But I really hope that we will respect this good old tradition, which is based on Christianity. For my part, I will not accept this law and I will vote against it. But I do not judge even those who support this, because it is not a Christian’s business to become a judge.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u154	Mr President! It is very important that such a debate on a subject that raises a lot of opinions is proper and that we respect each other's views and listen to them in the debate. In this debate, I will draw attention to two points. In this context, when particular emphasis is placed on equality and equality, when this law was already adopted in recent Parliaments, despite its adoption, the fundamental difference between the marriage of a man and a woman and the relationship of the same sex remains despite the decision of the Parliament. That is the end of our powers. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the rights of the child. That's what we talk about a lot. When we talk about the right of the child, compare it with the father and the mother, and in relation to the rights of adults, we should always look first and foremost at the weaker point of view of the child, whose right is stronger.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u155	Mr President! One more point of view, these consequences that this is going to have. One is when I quite well know this Christian field: However, 78 per cent of Finns still belong to a Christian community, and I know that the debate that is going on inside is in line with the fact that if we now want to separate ourselves, as it is said, that the Christian communities are doing what we want, and we are here, doing what we want, then these communities will do what they want, and they will resign themselves from this long tradition in which they have assumed responsibility for marriages and relationships in such a way that it has a certain institutional significance. They'll come back and draw their own conclusions. It does have the wonders of the state where the money is being dug into these many things that are being done in this area as well. Then again, Mr President-in-Office, for the plant: If the representative of the plant needs a theological discussion of the Bible, I have 18 Bibles and I am happy to talk to him. They are available in every departure, in different colours, sizes and languages. I'd be happy to continue this conversation. Let's eat a berlin monk, I'll buy it.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u156	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u157	Mr President! This Government proposal to amend the pre-trial investigation law implements the Victims Directive, excluding the articles on victim support services. The Victims Directive contains minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims, which must be respected throughout the EU. According to the Government Programme, the government will improve the status of victims of crime in the criminal process by developing legislation. The obligation of the pre-trial investigation authority to inform the plaintiff of his or her rights would be extended. The preliminary investigation authority should inform the party concerned, inter alia, of the possibility of receiving support and protection. In the future, the plaintiff would be subject to an individual assessment during the preliminary examination to determine whether special measures are needed to protect the plaintiff in the course of the preliminary examination and proceedings. Provisions on the right of the plaintiff to be notified of the release of the prisoner or prisoner of investigation would be reviewed. According to the motion, the plaintiff would be entitled, if he so wished, to be informed of the release of the prisoner or the prisoner of inquiry. The new provisions would cover the offences of life, health, freedom or peace listed separately in the law, and sexual offences which may be justified by the nature and gravity of the offence. The right of the plaintiff to translate the document would be extended. In the future, the plaintiff would be entitled to receive a translation at his request, inter alia, of the decision to terminate the preliminary examination or not to prosecute. Mr President, this is very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u158	Mr President! I noticed that Minister Lindström seemed to enjoy this presentation more than the previous one, and I too welcomed this bill. There are often debates in this Chamber when there are concerns about the treatment of prisoners or the situation of prisoners, but less often about those who are concerned about the victims of crime. This bill implements the directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, and I very much welcome the fact that the provisions will become an obligation to release from notification. In the case of a crime against life, health, freedom or peace or sexual offence, the plaintiff would have the right to be informed, notified, released or, under certain conditions, released from prison. However, this proposal states that it is also necessary that the report should not, however, be regarded as posing a risk to the released prisoner or the prisoner of investigation, his or her life or health. That is certainly justifiable. For the victim, it is important that the trials are also humane and that they do well or at least do not tear these crimes open again. In particular, in the case of victims of violent and sexual crimes and children, I hope that more work will be done to ensure that trials are on a faster schedule in that case and have the opportunity to obtain adequate support and also the right to act in such a way as not to have to face the perpetrator of the crime. Mr President! This proposal contains a number of points, including the right of the victim to protection during criminal investigations. And it is stated here that during a criminal investigation the victim must be questioned without undue delay, and in the second subparagraph, that during a criminal investigation the number of interviews of the victim must be kept to a minimum and that during a criminal investigation the victim must be accompanied by a legal representative or a person chosen by him. These are important issues, and especially in the case of child victims. But the point I particularly wanted to speak on is this announcement of the right of the plaintiff to be informed of the release. This list is long, and on one point here I drew attention to myself. According to the article, the preliminary investigation authority should, without undue delay, inform the plaintiff of the right to be notified of the release of the prisoner or of the prisoner of investigation and of the prison and so on. And I myself wondered whether this should not rather be in the form that the announcement should have been made before the criminal, the prisoner, was released. In other words, this leaves a small chance that without undue delay a situation could arise, that the prisoner, the criminal, has not yet been released and that the information has not yet gone to the victim, and this may, in some cases, be a source of danger.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u159	Mr President! I can agree with Mr Heinonen on a number of points. However, I would like to add just a few points to what I myself drew attention to when it comes to sexual offences about this announcement to the plaintiffs. Here the explanatory statement states that the Criminal Sanctions Agency or the police, depending on the situation, will assess the safety of the prisoner or the prisoner of investigation and if it requires no notification. I would like to see some reflection then on the conditions for further work, and not to go too lightly, so that it does not become the main rule suddenly — when there is no right of appeal, obviously the possibility of a complaint, and so on — and that it does not nullify this. I think this is very good, it is in line with the government programme that we are finally improving the status of the plaintiff. I agree with Mr Heinonen that the rule of law rightly requires that the position of the accused is safeguarded and that he is entitled to a fair trial. But this is the position of the plaintiff that has often been forgotten. I have been an assistant to numerous trials, including the judge's office there, and I sometimes looked with pity at the plaintiff, he has no sponsor or anything — the defendant's assistant is bombing it all — and there is no human being. It's been really distressing. What I think is very nice is that a person of the same sex is interrogating sex offenders. This would perhaps be one of those things that one might draw attention to in the Legal Aid Act, that sexual crimes would be entitled to have a defender of the same sex, because in many cases a man can become a man — I have been in the process of ordering and seeking such defenders, and then there has been a situation where a woman or a girl has said that she did not want a man to be her defender, that she does not have a confidential relationship. These could also be considered in other legislation regarding these sexual offences. Thank you. This is a very good legislative reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u160	For one reading, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 4/2015 vp. The draft law can now be adopted without amendment in substance by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast or rejected. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u161	Mr President! There is now a proposal on the table, which the previous Parliament has decided, at the 2014 Parliament, to approve with regard to the amendment of Article 25 of the Finnish Constitution, that it should be left to rest in the first parliamentary days following the elections. According to this bill, the country would be divided into at least nine constituencies and at most twelve constituencies on the basis of the number of Finnish citizens for parliamentary elections. The minimum and maximum number of constituencies provided for in the Constitution is intended to ensure political proportionality and regional representation of the elections. Furthermore, the provision seeks to ensure that reforms which in fact change the electoral system significantly are not carried out by a single majority in parliament and by a coalition of governments. As a result of the current proposal for a change, the current minimum number of constituencies would be reduced to a maximum, and the range that could be decided by ordinary law would be reduced by half. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Parliament of 2014 presented this amendment for approval, and the report contained two objections. At the Parliamentary plenary session, the amendment was adopted at second reading by 117 votes to 72. In the preparation of this government's proposal, the parliamentary working group set up by the Ministry of Justice worked and the working group's proposal contained three different opinions. The committee has wanted to emphasise the relative permanence of the Constitution and its abstinence in relation to constitutional changes. The committee stresses the need to prepare the constitutional changes carefully and on the basis of a broad consensus. In the past, the committee has stated, among other things, that "projects to amend the Constitution should not be undertaken on the basis of day-to-day political prospects or otherwise so as to undermine the stability of constitutional solutions or the constitutional position as a basis for the constitutional and legal order. On the other hand, we must ensure that the Constitution gives a true picture of the system of state power and the basis for the individual's legal status. Any need to amend the Constitution must be carefully assessed and the necessary changes made on the basis of thorough preparation and a broad-based debate and consensus. The committee notes that changing the number of constituencies is not the only way to improve the proportionality of the elections. The amendment of the constitutional provision regulating the number of constituencies, as proposed in the draft law, could limit the consideration of alternatives in the search for solutions to develop our electoral system in a balanced manner, both in terms of proportionality and regional representation." On these grounds and in view of the possible impact of the proposed amendment of the Constitution on the fundamental principles of our electoral system and the significant differences of opinion between the parliamentary groups in the preparation of the proposal and in the parliamentary procedure of the proposal, the committee does not consider it necessary or appropriate to adopt the draft law and therefore proposes to reject the legislative proposal which is currently being rested. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the reasons for the low turnout and the development of the electoral system, including in its report on the democratic policy report of the then Government. At the time, the committee considered that the Finnish electoral system, in its present form, was not very proportional and that the gap between the constituencies, in the so-called latent threshold, has increased since the 1970s as the size differences between the constituencies increased. Studies show that the number of seats in the electoral districts has an impact on the nomination of the parties and also on the voting behaviour of the citizens. Small constituencies have fewer parties nominated and lower voting turnout than in large constituencies. In addition, studies have found that there is more tactical voting in small constituencies. In other words, we are voting for a party and a candidate who is expected to have a good chance of passing. There are more parties in small constituencies that do not get a seat in the elections, and the proportion of large parties in the seats is much higher than their share of the votes, so there is less proportionality here as well. In addition, the report referred to voting activity higher than in other Nordic countries and to clearer choice options, and it was considered that Finland could also explore the possibilities of supplementing the human election system with the possibility of voting for a party alone. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also wishes to stress the need to safeguard the political proportionality of the parliamentary elections and to reduce the so-called latent threshold so that each voter has the same weight in the elections and also the voter of a small constituency can choose the party he considers to be the best candidate without the fear of losing his vote. The committee proposes that Parliament rejects the legislative proposal in the process of resting. In addition, the committee proposes that the following impetus be given to the adoption: "The Commission requires that parliamentary preparation be launched for the development of the Finnish electoral system and for the reform of the electoral legislation, taking into account the views of the Constitutional Committee. Parliament stresses that the preparation must be transparent and open to the public and that it should explore options that are best suited to increase the functioning of our electoral system and increase the turnout, improve the proportionality of the elections, reduce the so-called 'elections'. hidden sound threshold and ensure regional representativeness." There is one objection to this committee's report, which calls for this piece of legislation to be adopted and, accordingly, for the number of constituencies to be reduced, but I am sure that the Greens' objection will be presented shortly after my own speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u162	Mr President! In Finland, constituency reform or changes in parliament's electoral system have been on the agenda for some 40 to 50 years. For several decades, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has required that we reform our electoral system so that people's universal and equal voting rights and proportionality are better achieved. There is a very simple explanation for this, and you can see it from the comparison of the change in the number of elected representatives who have passed through the constituencies from the 70s to this day: the proportion of parliamentarians who have passed through the constituency of Uusimaa has more than doubled, and in many constituencies the number of MPs has almost halved. That is why decades of preparations are being made for this change, and for some reason the changes have always failed, partly because the changes are changing the existing power relations, and therefore it is difficult for those who have been elected in the framework of a particular electoral method to accept them. That is why we in Parliament should be able to look a little further and reflect on the equality of citizens required by the Constitution when we assess our electoral methods. In most countries where the proportional electoral method is in place, there are different equalisation systems to ensure that the parties are fully represented in relation to the number of votes they have received in Parliament. In Finland, when this is not the case, it is entirely dependent on the constituency's latent voting threshold that a large number of parties can realistically compete for a seat in the constituency. Even before the last elections, before the two electoral changes took place in Eastern Finland, we had constituencies where the actual voting threshold was up to 15%, and fortunately the last Parliament made changes that allowed us to improve our proportionality, but we were unable to solve the whole problem. In these areas, when the constituencies of South-East Finland and Savo-Karjala became operational, the voting threshold fell to the same fork, where in most other constituencies the voting threshold is. In Uusimaa it is about 2.5% — that is, the proportion of votes needed by one party to allow their first representative to go through — and then in the constituencies where this is the highest, at the moment, depending on the actual election results, it is about 8% there. In other words, this difference is still significant, it is no longer 15% as it was in the constituencies of six MPs, but in Satakunta, in particular, where there are nine MPs at present and there is a further reduction in the population, it is clear that the vote threshold for Satakunta will only rise in the future, if anything. In view of the equality of citizens and also the ability of people in these provinces to influence national politics, it is much more limited than the ability of people in Uusimaa to influence the range of values from which they can choose. In a small constituency, in practice, two, three or four parties will be elected to Parliament, when in a large constituency there will be up to eight or more. In particular, tactical voting is a constitutional problem if people proactively change their voting behaviour only because of the way they vote. That is why we must continue to improve proportionality in the way in which we cherish it, and there are two basic principles: The second is the introduction of some sort of equalisation system, represented by the proposal prepared by Minister of Justice Tuija Brax during the other parliamentary term. Then, even in present-day constituencies, proportionality could be improved in such a way that, in practice, some of the last places in different constituencies would be transferred to where the relative right of a party to have the next MP is first to be fulfilled, and thus the party's share would be correct. But this part has been opposed by the fact that the electoral concept will then be weakened and the voice of the human being will not necessarily affect the election of a representative in that constituency, but elsewhere. Therefore, when Parliament was unable to pass through the electoral district law, it was decided to merge the constituencies and it should be continued. If Parliament does not have the courage to do so and does not accept this bill, then in practice we will return to the fact that then the equalisation system should complement the current system. And Parliament should be able to choose either—or both, but the current situation is still not sufficient in terms of proportionality, especially given the decreasing population of Satakunta. I would like to say that, at the moment, or so it is said, during the last parliamentary term, Finland's electoral method was at its most unfair in our history from the point of view of equal treatment of citizens, because these demographic shifts have been so great. The correction that was made in the last period improved the matter somewhat, but the problem still exists for the smallest constituencies. It is therefore still the view of the Green Parliamentary Group that, given that we have a long work to do and that it seems likely that some form of reform, unification or further development of the constituencies would be the easiest and most parliamentaryly supported by the citizens and that the opportunity to develop the electoral method should be taken forward by this amendment of the Constitution, which was approved by the last Parliament. In parallel, other options can be considered — if this change is adopted — as well. It is not necessarily necessary to abolish any current constituency, but then we must consider how to improve proportionality in another way and ensure that people in these constituencies also have more voting rights than they do today. It should also be stressed that people's mobility has also increased over the decades, so that, regionally, a somewhat larger constituency is not as big a problem as perhaps in the early days of our independence. An increasing number of people are voting on a value-based basis, and even though the constituency of South-East Finland was subject to prejudices as to how, for example, representatives from the South Savo side will be elected or how smaller localities will become MPs elected, the larger constituency actually had the opportunity to choose either from a larger group of parties based on value-based voting, from a larger group of people who are best suited to the profile desired by the voters, or to place emphasis on their own place of residence, home region, and, as a result, the distribution of the constituency's MPs quite strongly continued the old distribution but the proportionality improved. Therefore, regional representativeness was not weakened, in fact there are now a lot more representatives elected by the Savonlinna people, for example, because the whole constituency is represented by its entire constituency. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that, in the future, when consideration is given to the integration of constituencies — and I personally see that between 9 and 12 constituencies would be a good constitutional framework for the development of the system — it is clear that regionalism has weight, however, and I share the view of the majority in the committee. In practice, this means that, in the constituency of Lapland, the geographical size cannot grow significantly higher than at present, without causing candidates and also voters to suffer more harm than benefits. But in the rest of Finland, constituency reform could ensure that in relative terms we could achieve a distribution where, even if the differences in proportion between all constituencies were within the voting threshold of around 3 to 6 per cent, it can be seen that each vote is sufficiently equal across Finland so that our electoral system can return to where it was in the 70s before the major demographic changes. Since the population of Uusimaa is only growing and the population of certain provinces is shrinking, the need for change will continue to lie ahead. That is why the Green Parliamentary Group sees that some form of integration and conversion of the constituencies must continue to be possible and slightly higher than the average size of the constituencies than the present one is not a constitutional problem, but rather an opportunity for equal voting rights. That is why I refer to the objection to the committee's report and propose that Parliament adopt the legislative proposal that is on its way to rest.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u163	Mr President! Firstly, I support this proposal made by Mrs Niinistö that the legislative proposal on the table should be adopted. Secondly, I would like to remind you that, as the committee states in this statement, our electoral system must be improved. It is worth remembering that, since this number of constituencies is defined in the Constitution and always requires the approval of two successive parliaments, now, if we do not change this number of constituencies, in fact, if we see that this development is a sensible combination of constituencies, that is an impossible task. That is why the proposal is good, because now we are at 12, that is to say at this minimum, with regard to the law in force and the fact that this fork is being changed to 9 to 12 would make it possible for constituencies to be brought together, but it is not necessary, and that is why I think it makes sense for this currently resting law to be adopted. It will give more light to this development. I myself come from the new combined constituency of Savo-Karjala, and I can say from experience that what is stated in this committee's report, too, about how people actually vote tactically in such constituencies, from which few representatives are elected, because I have also been a candidate in the constituency of North Karelia many times, was very strongly opposed in the electoral fields. As can be seen for both South-East Finland and Savo-Karjala, however, regional division, how representatives came through now, is actually even better than before. From North Karelia we now have representatives from other parts of Joensuu, although Joensuu is the largest city. At this stage, I do not think it makes sense to exclude the possibility that constituencies can be combined.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u164	Mr President! This is the representative. Niinistö made a good and thorough speech, and it is easy to agree with his views. There has been much talk of fairness here in recent weeks, and this is unfortunately proof of the fact that justice is a very situational and interest-oriented concept. So the concept of justice itself is not, but it is being used with great focus on the situation and interests. For example, if my party had had this proposed electoral method in place, we would have eight representatives here. But in some constituencies there is a situation where we already find it difficult to get candidates, because the voting threshold is so high, so I support this statement made by the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u165	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the very thorough work it has done. I also understand the representative of this House. The pain of Niinistö on the subject, and also in the sense that it has been prepared in two parliamentary working groups for a long time and a great deal. But Mr Niinistö also urged us to look further away from that future, and that is why it is important that no change is made just because of the change. Now, as required by the committee, a new preparation is being launched in a parliamentary manner, and this preparation takes account of these statements in the committee's report. And I think it is very important that the emphasis has now been placed on keeping this preparation open, with wide-ranging and open-minded analysis of the various options. I myself am from the constituency of Lapland, and I must say that during the parliamentary election campaign I drove 17,000 kilometres in a car during those two months. Now that we are talking about these wide-ranging and open-minded options, even the distribution of constituencies could be quite appropriate in certain cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u166	Mr. Speaker! It is true that the relative nature of the parliamentary elections has been considered during the political debate throughout the history of Parliament and that these problems are not new. Of course, since the '70s they have been exacerbated by migratory movements. But I would also like to conclude by underlining this impetus, as expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that parliamentary preparations should be launched. And, as has been shown in previous speeches, this basic material is in the preparation of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u169	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 1/2015 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u170	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u171	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u172	Mr President! "Three-year terms for a tapanila gang rape." "Man conditioned for the rape of a 14-year-old "Condemned for violent rape, conditional of the year "Remnant woman, court-martialed for six months." Here are some headlines about rape convictions in our country. It has been asked whether these are in line with the general sense of law. You may also well ask if we even have more protection than a person. This happened when comparing the rape case brought up by Time Two in the spring and the theft of beer in Häme. The rapist was punished with a conditional sentence because the man had a permanent job and was a first-time offender. The woman who took beer from the Riihimäki movement received a similar punishment. You might well ask the judiciary: how did it go as it did in your own mind? Of course, the penalties for sexual crimes have been tightened up recently. In the early part of the year, we passed the law, according to which rape against a minor is always defined as gross rape. The minimum sentence thus increased to two years of imprisonment with a maximum of ten years. At the same time, a section on sexual harassment entered the criminal code and all sexual offences against adults were transferred to official prosecutions. I promised some time ago that at the beginning of the autumn parliamentary term I would submit a motion for amendment to the Criminal Code on rapes. Too often news comes out of convictions, where only a brief conditional sentence has been convicted of rape. In the summer, for example, the case was reported where the prosecutor accused one 18 - year - old man and four boys under 18 years of age for aggravated rape. Some of the perpetrators were completely released and one of the offenders was sentenced to one year and four months in prison and two others were sentenced to one year in prison. All prison sentences were conditional. I understand that the matter is currently under discussion. In July it was reported that the Court of Appeal of Eastern Finland reduced the sentences of two men who had been convicted by the District Court of Etelä-Savo for rape of a 15-year-old girl. According to public information, the court justified the decision by what is known as general punishment. Another man’s sentence was considered to be a ground for lowering at court that he had previously been sentenced to two years in prison for robbery, among other things. So the rape went on the side. The men had given tranquilizers to the girl who was raped, after which she had been raped. The people of Satakunta dealt with rape convictions in their editorial, throwing a ball at us politicians: "In the run-up to the civil debate, politicians should now wonder whether the current penal practice is in line with what we know today about the consequences of rapes and other sexual crimes and the suffering of their victims. For example, is the duration of rape from the victim's point of view any significant factor in assessing the seriousness of the act?" I do not think so, and I think that rape should always be condemned to an absolute prison sentence. That is why today we are discussing the bill that I tabled in Parliament's plenary session to amend Article 1 of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code to include 'who forces another person to have sex by using violence against a person or by threatening to use such violence must be condemned to an absolute imprisonment of at least two years for rape.' At the same time, in this bill of law, I propose the abolition of the so-called additional requirement in relation to the criteria for aggravated rape, that rape is also, as a whole, a serious one. I think it is enough to determine that rape is serious if, among other things, it causes a severe physical injury, a life-threatening condition or it targets a child 18 years younger, multiple offenders and so on. After that, I do not feel that any further consideration is needed as to the grossness of the act. Mr President! So there are two changes to the current law. Today, under the law, rape can be sentenced to imprisonment for at least one and not more than six years. This Article 1 would become "absolute imprisonment for at least two years". And then there is the second change: there are five points on the list of aggravated rape, and then the statement 'rape is also a total offence'. This claim is abandoned, or, as I described above, it is sufficient that one of these five points is fulfilled. Mr President! I hope that Parliament will take this initiative on board and that it will be well suited, for example, in the context of the citizens' initiative under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u173	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Heino for this bill. As stated in the initiative, the offender can survive rape and violent rape with conditional imprisonment. Penalty for rape convictions was tightened during the last parliamentary term. Yet rapes are often subject to less severe forms of punishment, such as conditional imprisonment. Conditional imprisonment is like a head stroke in relation to an act that can traumatize the victim for the rest of his life. Conditional imprisonment is a mere ironing of the head also in relation to other crimes, and, above all, the fact that rapists are given conditional sentences is a serious war against the public's sense of justice. They get away with it and they're free to rape again. I have a personal example. I got suspended in prison for drinking church wine. For practical life, it had no meaning at all. I went back to work as before, and a note of this size came into my hand. That's what I suffer very easily. A fine, a great one, would have been much tougher. Mr President! It is sad how the Swedish road is becoming our way too. Although there is a warning example next door, we are repeating the irreversible mistakes made in Swedish immigration policy. As a result, Swedish rape statistics are scandalous to read. Sweden is the most raped in Europe and the second highest in the world — only South Africa is ahead. The number of rapes has been on the rise, especially in the last ten years. This may be explained by the lowering of the notification threshold, but the truth is that it is the result of reckless immigration, especially from certain countries where women are of no value. It is in their culture and heritage, and it is not changed by integration. In Sweden, there are over 6,000 rapes a year. It means about 18 times a day. If this were to be proportionate to the population of Finland, it would mean ten rape offences a day, and we are going towards such atrocities in Finland as well. Mr President! I support Mr Heinonen's bill. Especially now that thousands of young men are coming here from different cultures, the penalties must be in line with the fact that they have at least some deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u174	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Heino for an extremely important and timely legislative initiative. We have recently read — and I am sure many representatives have received public feedback from the citizens — that, for example, the rules of court ruling do not correspond to the sense of justice of the deep ranks of the people, and they do not correspond to my own sense of justice. In the context of this legislative initiative, I believe that Parliament has the opportunity to demonstrate the political will that rape is a particularly cruel and humiliating crime against humanity and that we do not accept such action in any form, that it is always punished by an absolute judgment, and that it is barbaric. I wholeheartedly support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u175	Mr President! I personally recognise the need to tighten Finland's criminal law in this regard in a stricter direction. This is the case with the fact that legislation describes the moral perceptions of society in a certain way, and there has been a change here: the general condemnation of sexual offences has increased among the citizens, and we legislators have a duty to respond to this change in the moral and legal perception of the citizens. It is therefore necessary to increase the legal validity of rape offences. I support this bill by Mrs Heinonen that the sentence of rape should always be an absolute imprisonment.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u176	Mr President! A change of law is absolutely necessary. I hope that this will also change the sentence of the courts, so that something other than the first third of the sentence will be used. At least this will change the lowest punishment, which would result in an absolute sentence. Thank you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u177	Mr President! Like the previous speakers, I would also like to express my support for this bill by Mrs Heinonen, which is in line with the amendment to the pre-trial investigation law which was discussed earlier today, among other things in the referral debate. It was also intended to improve the status of the victim of the crime. As has been said here today in previous speeches, I do not believe that the feelings of the deep ranks of the people are in line with the conditional convictions for rapes and gross rapes that have often been handed down today. This is also a very important moral statement on the role and physical integrity of women and its importance. I would like to thank Mr Heino for this important bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u178	Mr President! I also agree with this and thank Mr Heino for this initiative. If the judicial decisions taken differ significantly from the general sense of justice in the midst of the people, it will always have a detrimental effect on justice and its sense of justice. That is why, now that we have a very clear and obvious situation in relation to these rape issues, this is the place for Parliament to have new legislation and evaluation.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u179	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I support Timo Heinonen's bill and thank him for wanting to defend women and to change this in Finnish law. It is clear from the civil debate that this current case law does not correspond to the citizens' sense of justice. Matti Tolvanen, a professor of criminal and procedural law at the University of Eastern Finland, has also said that violent and sexual offences should be subject to more severe sentences than the current practice, and he specifically mentioned aggravated assaults, rapes, aggravated rapes and aggravated child sexual abuse as crimes that should always be acquitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u180	Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for this referral debate which has taken place around my bill. I would have liked to have had more people in this Chamber, but it is good that so much support has been given to the proposal from different parties. I would like to underline that I have had no inspiration in any way in terms of a rich refugee situation or anything else. I don't care who the rapist is, he's got an absolute sentence in every situation. I also know that the evidence problems are those that often arise, and I have also received some critical assessments from this bill, that there are evidence problems and innocent people to be judged, but I also believe that there is no reason for us not to tighten up the claim, but that, on the other hand, it is necessary and necessary to produce evidence so that the court can judge. On the other hand, for this we have a three-step model, where the sentences will then be reviewed after the district court in court and so forth. I would also like to underline that I am not one of those who believe that prison will improve, but in the case of this bill, I think that the most important thing is that the convictions should be in relation to the seriousness of the act, and that is why rape is always an absolute prison sentence. Mr President! In Finland, our criminal policy is governed by far too much money today. There are prisoners in open institutions who do not belong there, and so on. In my opinion, there is a great deal to be done here in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u181	And after Mr Heinonen, Mr Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u182	Mr President! On behalf of women, Mrs Tavitsainen thanked this initiative, and I would also like to thank her on behalf of men. Although rape of men is a little prohibited and even taboo and is generally not mentioned in street discussions, men are being raped surprisingly much, not only in prisons, but also on behalf of men, to thank for this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u183	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u184	Mr President! Child marriages are easy to judge. They are easy to judge, especially when they are far away. But do we see the beam in our own eye? Mr President! The possibility of granting permission to a person under 18 years of age to marry must be removed from the Finnish Marriage Act. Why? Now, the argument for it: In general, the legal capacity of a person under the age of 18 is limited. However, the present law on marriage allows a child under 18 to make a decision that is crucial to his or her life: to marry. These children’s marriages are justifiable to be considered inappropriate in our legal order and, above all, in violation of the fundamental rights of children. According to Section 4 of the Marriage Act of our current country, as a rule, marriage requires adulthood. However, on the basis of paragraph 2 of the same paragraph, the requirement of full age may be waived by the Ministry of Justice’s permission, and this provision of the law does not set any minimum age for an exemption. The law includes an obligation to consult the child's guardian, but it is not complete either, nor is the hearing of the child's guardian any other situation, because I believe that the ability and will of the minor's guardian who consents to the marriage is well founded to question the child's interests. The possibility of obtaining permission from the Ministry of Justice for special reasons for marriage at the age of 18 has not remained a mere possibility of principle. According to Statistics Finland, a total of 1,138 children have married in Finland between 1995 and 2014, with a huge majority of 869 girls. Although in recent years the majority of these special permits have been granted to 17-year-olds, there are 27 of these girls who were between 14 and 15 years of age when they were married. In general, marriage can be accompanied by an image of sexual intercourse between spouses. It is particularly unethical to grant a marriage permit to a child under 16 years of age who must be protected from sexual acts on the basis of Chapter 20, Section 6 of the Penal Code. The granting of a permit to a person under 16 years of age is difficult to see as any other than legalised sexual abuse of a child. In July 2015, the UN Human Rights Council adopted a decision calling on Member States to take measures to ban child marriages. The starting point for the definition of child marriage is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and Article 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children under the age of 18 are children. A ban on child marriages would have positive consequences. Clear rules for the physical and mental health of children, the right of children to childhood and protection against abuse would be much more effective than the current situation. And there is no credible way that Finland can pursue the objectives of children's welfare and human rights, to shake the finger on others if there is a gap in the legislation of our own country that makes child marriages possible. Mr President! The Ombudsman for Children, Mr Kurttila, has also rightly drawn attention to this instance. I therefore propose, as a legal initiative, that Article 4(2) of the Marriage Act, which allows these derogations to be granted, be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u185	Madam President! It is good to agree with Mrs Tuppurainen's speech and, in a few words, I am going to say these same things because I have read the same statistics as she has. According to Statistics Finland, a total of 1,138 children were married in Finland between 1995 and 2014, of which 869 were girls. Twenty-seven girls have been between the ages of 14 and 15 when they married, that is, children. In July 2015, the UN Human Rights Council adopted a decision in which it hopes that Member States will take measures to ban child marriages. This amendment of the law is therefore also very necessary. Currently, Finland accepts child marriages for immigrants and does not see this as a problem. However, I believe that this is also important for child protection. In addition, with accelerated and rapidly changing immigration, the amendment of the law should be taken seriously. It is not enough to explain that there are few cases or that the child’s age is close to the age of an adult. The Child Welfare Act is the same in Finland for everyone, where tolerance must be kept far away rather than nearby. The Netherlands, for example, has already come to this disadvantage. To date, Dutch law has allowed child brides and their husbands to be united. Now the Dutch Government is rushing to change the law. As Mr Tuppurainen said, so would the child father representative Tuomas Kurttila prohibit child marriages in Finland altogether. This amendment of the law, which we are now discussing, will above all improve the rights of young girls. The strengthened legislation in Finland would also send a clear signal that we, as a West Democratic country, do not accept the unequal treatment of children and women. Finland must not become a back-door country of the European Union for those who favour child marriages. Madam President! I consider this bill to be a very good and necessary initiative. It protects children in particular, which we adults must always protect. I am personally committed to it, as I am sure everyone in this Chamber is. Finally, it must also be said that it is an excellent thing when many young adults decide to continue to marry. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u186	Mr President! I thank and support Mrs Tuppurainen's bill. A child under the age of 18 is a child, and children must be children, not wives. Child marriages violate a number of international agreements. There are many countries where girls rarely get to decide on their own lives, such as marriage or pregnancy. In the Middle East, a lot of girls are going to be child bridesmaids. This can also happen in Finland, because our marriage law is very outdated and there is no minimum age for marriage. From our Finns' point of view, when a teenage girl is with a middle-aged man, it is not a marriage, it is exploitation. Now that we have thousands of asylum seekers, we have to be awake. Sad reports from refugee camps suggest that more and more girls are being married when they are really young. We cannot accept in Finland that girls under the age of 18 are present in reception centres for asylum seekers with their older partners. Finland must protect these girls and take them to the reception centres for unaccompanied minors. This should also apply to young people aged 16 to 17, as according to the Finnish Immigration Service, people over 16 are allowed to stay with their husband at the reception centre. I think this is wrong. It must be clearly demonstrated that there are moral and ethical issues that are not accepted in Europe and that Finland's legislation needs to be rapidly changed to the benefit of children. In Finland, all child marriages entered into in the country of origin of asylum seekers must be annulled and cannot be legally valid until the persons are 18 years old or the marriages can only be re-established then. The Finnish Marriage Act must be amended so that a minor cannot marry even with an exception. An up-to-date law would also reduce the number of asylum seekers whose brides are young slave or buying wives. In some cases, they have also been technically formed, for example, in the hope of family reunification and a better standard of living. The right to family reunification must only apply to marriages where both parties are over 18 years old. In addition, Finland, together with other EU countries, must contribute to preventing young girls from getting married in refugee camps. Mr President! Tuomas Kurttila, Ombudsman for Children, has also insisted that the possibility of marriage as a minor should be removed from the Finnish Marriage Act. In the background of the Ombudsman's demand for children, there is the right of children to childhood and also the recent decision of the UN Human Rights Council that Member States should take measures to ban child marriages. The UN also wants States to ensure that marriage is always voluntary. Finland is an example of the rights of girls and children in many countries. Let us continue to do so, and let us adopt the bill put forward by Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u187	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mrs Tuppura for this bill. One concern I see here, and it's the following. Teenagers, especially among those over 16 years of age, often also have a desire to marry and take responsibility for what happened. This proposal strongly limits the need to remove the possibility of authorising marriage to persons under the age of 18. It may be that if the age limit for marriage is so strict, it may encourage abortion. I am not saying that this will happen, but it may be encouraging, so it would be good to look at it again. I understand that Tuppurainen may not have thought that there was some flexibility here, but perhaps I would consider that there should still be such a nuance in this proposal, and then at the hearing in the Legal Committee, that these conditions for 16-year-olds would have the possibility of getting married. Now there's no lower limit, and that's the big problem. But if there were to be one, let’s say, a milder case, then there might be a possibility that it would encourage young people to accept that responsibility. Many young people in this situation also have support from their own family to help them to go along with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u188	Two replies, Mrs Tuppurainen and Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u189	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen himself pays attention to an absolutely essential issue. When a minor, a child under the age of 18, a girl, becomes pregnant, she certainly requires special support and help in that situation. But I don't think marriage is the right way to give that support. Above all, marriage is a huge legal, economic agreement between spouses. Support for a pregnant child can also be provided in other ways, and therefore, with careful consideration, I will draw up this bill in such a way as to draw up the age limit for the marriage to 18 years, which, by the way, is also the limit of adulthood in this UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u190	Mr President! However, to this idea expressed by the representative, if the child were to become pregnant, I would say that this is a very old-fashioned idea that marriage would bring that security and support and in some way would save the family’s honor, for marriage can leave the child very alone. Instead of marriage, children must be guaranteed access to education and independence and support for the child’s upbringing.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u191	Mr Laukkanen, do you still want to answer this question?
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u192	Madam President! Yes, I can hear you with a sensitive ear. Although we live in a very diverse, pluralistic society, studies still consider marriage to be one of the safest forms of relationship, that in that sense I do defend marriage. I would not think, in principle, that if you marry, it would be a worse situation than not getting married.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u193	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u194	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Tuppura for this excellent bill. There has been an extremely good debate here. It is a pity that there are so few representatives in the Chamber, but apparently the elite, because almost everything that is relevant has been said about this issue. Yesterday we received the latest news that we have indeed received children’s brides with immigrants, and these marriages have then had to be annulled. In this regard, it is somewhat grotesque that our marriage law, however, allows for those child marriages. I also understand Mr Laukkanen's point of view, but, as we have also said on a previous point today, from the point of view of secular power, marriage is, above all, the economic union of two fully-fledged and full-aged people. This Tuppurainen initiative is an excellent response to the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Council and to general human rights. The starting point must be that children under the age of 18 are children and must be guaranteed the right to childhood. In this way, I can also say that I wholeheartedly support this initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u195	Madam President! I would like to thank Mrs Tuppura for this initiative. Among other things, he states in his explanatory statement: "All in all, it is justified to regard children's marriages as inappropriate in our legal order and in violation of the fundamental rights of children. According to the applicable marriage law, marriages require an adulthood. However, a derogation from the requirement of full age may be granted with the permission of the Ministry of Justice. That provision does not set any minimum age for the granting of an exemption. " Madam President! Mrs Tuppurainen's initiative is very timely right now, when we have tens of thousands of immigrants whose cultures include child wives. On Tuesday, across Europe, news spread from the Netherlands. They wonder what action should be taken with the underage children's brides of men seeking asylum. A quote from the Evening Journal: "In the Netherlands, some 20 girls between the ages of 13 and 15 have been allowed to be in reception centres with their older partners because of a legal loophole. In Syria, girls have been so-called child brides. In the Netherlands, an urgent attempt is now being made to change the law on family reunification for asylum seekers. Child marriages often violate international agreements. In the Netherlands there has been some controversy about this and the authorities have even been accused of allowing paedophilia. One example of child brides in the Netherlands is the 14-year-old Fatema Alkasem. Lately, a pregnant Fatema disappeared from a Dutch reception center two months ago. The police looking for the girl are afraid that Fatema, who needs hospital treatment, has been transported abroad against her will. Currently, teen marriages are recognised in the Netherlands if the marriage is officially registered in the spouse’s home country. They want to change the law so that the right to family reunification would apply only to marriages where both parties are over 18 years old." Madam President! Mrs Tuppurainen's bill states that the law includes an obligation to consult the child's guardian, but this is not complete. I fully agree with that. The guardian’s obligation to consult is irrelevant if and when the guardian has a view that the child’s marriage is acceptable. In some cultures, children’s marriages are even encouraged. We legislators should ensure that we do not have loopholes that could allow pedophilia. No exception must be allowed to nest in Finland the extremely repugnant phenomena such as child marriage. This threat must be tackled with determination. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u196	Mr President! At this point, I am sure it would be appropriate to thank colleagues for this fruitful debate. This initiative is certainly timely in this globalised world: we must respond to this challenge of multiculturalism and find the right measures to support human rights and children's rights and the rule of law. But even on the most common grounds, Finland is the rule of law, and we must set an example, and as long as our own legislation allows child marriages, child brides, we have no moral right to shake the finger on other countries because of child marriages. We must set an example, and that is what the rule of law, human rights and children's rights require of us. When I have had a so-called civil debate on this initiative, I have very often come across this view, which Mr Laukkanen mentioned here, among other things, that the possibility of granting an exemption, for example, to a 17-year-old, or so on, when it is no longer below the age of protection for this sexual activity, should not be maintained. But in this context I would like to point out that marriage is not only a love union, as Mr Kulmala whispered, but also an economic and legal agreement between the spouses — and the general legal capacity begins with an adult age of 18 years. It is therefore justified to draw that line to adulthood; it is justified to draw that line to 18 years. Now this matter is being evaluated and held in the hands of the sitting government, and I hope that Minister of Justice Jari Lindström will take firm and vigorous action on this issue and that this marriage law will be corrected in this regard. This should not be a very complicated legislative issue, but as a matter of principle it is very important and heavy.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u197	Mr President! I would also like to express my thanks and support for Mrs Tuppurainen's legislative initiative. I was wondering how much we are now going to do in our legislation for immigrants. It has been racist to say 'in the country in a way', but here in fact we want to change the way in which it prevails. I was wondering, when I listened to the referral, whether there was a difference between the minor and the minor from anywhere. I came to the conclusion that it is not. That thinking on the age limit, which Mrs Tuppurainen raised in her own resolution, is one thought. But, as he finally stated, the age limit of 18 years is certainly well founded. I personally hope that this bill will now also be taken up in the parliamentary committee and will receive the treatment it deserves and will be thoroughly reviewed and considered whether there are any issues that need to be taken into account. But when I grow up, I see that such child marriage laws are no longer today.
ParlaMint-FI_2015-10-22-ps-55.u198	The 10th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 23 October 2015.
