ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u1	Mr. Ben Accour is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u2	Madam President, Minister, 16 Belgian organisations wrote a letter following your visit to Palestine a few weeks ago. They also added a number of recommendations, including strengthening humanitarian and development aid to the Palestinian community in zone C on the West Bank and stressing the need for a stronger and more ambitious European response to the Israeli demolition of Palestinian structures in zone C. You have already indicated that you are continuing Belgian support for Palestinian civil society, despite the accusations made by the Israeli government of the 'terrorist' organisation, I deliberately place that word between quotes of activity. We naturally support this recommendation and also believe in the role of Belgium at European level in the dossier. We therefore support you in your role as Minister for Development Cooperation and in the actions you have already taken within that role. I have a few specific questions about that. What is your response to the recommendation to strengthen development aid and humanitarian support in zone C? What initiatives will you take at European level, both in the context of the dismantling of Palestinian structures and of the shrinking scope for action of Belgian partner organisations in Palestine? Will you actively work at European level to ensure that the European Union and the other Member States reject Israel's designation of six Palestinian NGOs as terrorist organisations and publicly declare that the evidence provided proves no guilt? If so, what specific steps will you take? If not, why won't you? What is your response to the analysis of the Palestinian, Israeli and international human rights organisations as well as the NGOs that the situation in occupied Palestinian territory and in Israel meets the criteria of the international legal definition of apartheid under the anti-apartheid convention and the Rome Statute? Have your services and/or your foreign colleague already carried out their own legal analysis in this respect? If not, why didn't that happen? Is that analysis still going to happen? I was somewhat surprised by the few responses to the fact that you could not go to the Palestinian territories. What actions are you going to take to oppose that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u3	Thank you for your questions, colleagues. As you know, Palestine is one of the 14 partners in our governmental cooperation. My partner in this cooperation is therefore the Palestinian authority. On my mission, therefore, I had talks with the Palestinian Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. We just concluded a new cooperation agreement with Palestine. That was the framework for the visit. The new portfolio has a budget of 70 million euros over five years and focuses on the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. It will build on the successful interventions of the previous programme on work and vocational training for young people. A focus will be on young people's empowerment, ranging from developing skills to access to employment and entrepreneurship. Particular attention will be paid to education and learning. We're gonna build four schools and renovate five schools. Specific attention will also be paid to social engagement and the protection of young people, to promoting entrepreneurship and the labour market participation of young women. There will be 2,100 young people trained professionally. At least 40% of them will be girls. At least half come from the most vulnerable groups. There is also innovation in the sense that a pillar 'climate and environment' was included. Specific attention will be paid to strengthening value chains and opportunities for socio-economic entrepreneurship and job creation in an emerging green economy. In addition, sustainable cities, public services and territories with a focus on waste management, recycling, renewable energy and energy efficiency will be developed. The Belgian Development Agency Enabel is now in the start-up phase of the portfolio. During this period, the exact list of partners will be established with whom to work. Pre-selected partners include universities, schools and colleges, NGOs, public institutions, chambers of commerce and public authorities. The follow-up and evaluation of this portfolio will follow established procedures, i.e. annual progress reporting, an interim evaluation by external evaluators, a final external evaluation and a final report on the results achieved. There is also the usual external financial control. I also had a meeting with Dr Issawi Freij, who, as Minister for Regional Cooperation in the Israeli Government, is responsible for relations with the Palestinian territories. I had an exchange of views with him on the Israeli initiatives aimed at improving the economic situation of the Palestinian people and the difficulties they are experiencing as a result of the occupation. Indeed, the Israeli authorities refused to grant me access to the Gaza Strip. The reason given was that Israel currently does not allow a political visit to Gaza. A group of MEPs has also recently been denied access to Gaza. I regret this refusal. A visit to Gaza would have enabled us to learn about the activities of our major multilateral humanitarian partners and our own development agency, Enabel. Our disappointment at this decision was therefore officially communicated to the Israeli authorities. As for the participation of members of my policy cell, there were four staff members: my spokesperson and my communication assistant, my diplomatic advisor and my advisor Gouvernement Cooperation and Education. With regard to European aid to the Palestinian authorities for the year 2021, I am very pleased to inform you that a solution has been found and that yesterday, during her visit to Ramallah, the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, announced that this aid would be paid out quickly. Mrs Creemers, as far as your questions are concerned, I agree with the recommendations. In the Belgian context, this is reflected in the launch of the new government cooperation book and the adoption of the new non-governmental programmes. As regards humanitarian aid, Belgian funding for UNRWA in Palestine remained stable from 2021 to 2022. The Belgian Government will continue its financing of UNRWA's general resources in 2022 at the level of EUR 7 million, as provided for in the Agreement for 2021-2023. On the question of the dismantling of Palestinian structures, you know that Belgium is a very active donor of the West Bank Protection Consortium, a group of humanitarian NGOs operating in Zone C. Their aim is to support the most vulnerable communities, to prevent the movement of population groups and to support communities affected by degradation. Since 2017, at the initiative of Belgium, the EU and the Member States of this consortium have developed a common strategy in the event of destruction and confiscation. They systematically demand financial compensation for destruction carried out by the Israeli authorities. As regards the question about the designation of six Palestinian NGOs as terrorist organisations and our continued support for Palestinian civil society, I have explained my position in this committee on several occasions. That is also the position we maintain in contacts with our EU partners on this issue. In the meantime, like Belgium, other EU Member States have also publicly indicated that the elements provided by Israel do not allow the accusations to be confirmed. I have taken note of the various reports describing Israeli policy towards the Palestinians as an apartheid regime. That's a legal qualification. It's not for me to judge. However, regardless of this qualification, Belgium and the European Union will continue to work for respect for international law in Palestine, in particular international human rights and international humanitarian law. Unfortunately, they are already being violated too often.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u4	Madam Minister, you indicated that you met the Israeli Minister for Regional Cooperation, but you did not really go into my question about the courtesy visit. I found it very special that in the interview in De Morgend you said you were disappointed that you could not visit Gaza. I can understand that, but in one sense we were going to pay a courtesy visit to the Israeli authorities. I think it is really important diplomatically that our country is impartial and that this is expressed in this way. I have asked you clearly what the diplomatic significance for our country is of the fact that you were not admitted to the Gaza Strip and of your statement on the courtesy visit. You have gone quite far there and it is remarkable that a minister in office communicates in this way about a friendly state. You have also mentioned an issue that we have talked about before, namely the six terrorist organisations, which the European Union still regards as such. You keep saying that our country does not provide assistance through these organisations, but I am still hungry when it comes to genuinely independent investigations from our country. You always refer to the investigations that are going on in Europe, but I think we should follow the Dutch model and examine independently whether the funds are being put in the right place in Gaza. The Palestinian territories and the Palestinian population can and must be helped. Everyone has the right to respect, education and human rights and that right must be guaranteed. As far as the country agreement is concerned, I find it difficult to find on your site the concrete agreements between the different partner countries. Perhaps in the future you can ensure a little more transparency around that and around the agreements made, so that we do not have to ask for this every time in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u5	I understand more and more the sensitivities. For me, that disappointment that you have officially communicated that you could not go to Gaza may not have sounded loud enough and may have sounded too loud for others. We trust you to find the right balance. At the same time, it is a pity that this is considered normal. The Members of the European Parliament who were there are denied access. The more often it happens, the more normal we find it, while you are still a representative of our country. We're allowed to demand that we go there. You are very careful to say that it is not up to you to express the classification of apartheid. At the same time, you can use your vote in order to take even more action against matters that we will increasingly regard as normal. You know that you will always find a partner in Ecolo-Green if you want to make that sound louder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u6	Madam President, Minister, we have already mentioned briefly the fact that medicines have been sent to Ukraine by your fellow Minister Vandenbroucke. However, this is, of course, one of the humanitarian actions undertaken by our country. It appears to be medicinal products that were almost decayed or expired. Minister Vandenbroucke states that the funds will be recovered from the Public Health Office. I myself asked you in committee whether there were any humanitarian aid funds involved. Maybe I can get confirmation of that again? Madam Secretary, the logistics part would be paid for by Europe. However, what is important to you is that international rules have been exceeded by sending those expired or almost expired medications. To what extent is this taken into account? To what extent will you add adjustments to this? There is also the loss of the expired medicines. After all, the Ukrainian government should now pay for the loss. It is also special that you had the experience with COVAX and the vaccines that are being sent to the South. In this respect, it was very clearly stated that the vaccines have an expiry date of more than three months. How come it's not discussed? Were you aware that those medicines were being sent? Were you aware that the expiry date of three months was not respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Depooster, thank you for your questions. You yourself mentioned it in your question, so you know that this is the responsibility of Mr Vandenbroucke. He already answered questions about the delivery of medicines to Ukraine at the plenary session of 19 May 2022. If you have any further questions on this matter, I suggest you ask them to the Minister responsible. As far as I am concerned, the delivery was not carried out by Belgian Development Cooperation, nor was it financed by the budget for development cooperation or humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u8	Madam Secretary, you're in the government together. When humanitarian aid departs for Ukraine, consultation on the medication that is being sent, with the experience you had with Covax, is definitely a small one. It is easy to refer to your colleague now, but these are things with which we do not make ourselves very popular at international level. There was a mistake that could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u9	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u10	Mr De Vuyst is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u11	Madam Minister, two years ago, the FAO established a strategic alliance with CropLife International, a global interest organisation representing the agrochemical and biotechnological industries and the pesticides industry. When we spoke recently about food security, the FAO representative in our committee explained the FAO's long-term vision and underlined that agro-ecology and sustainable agriculture are its pillars. The fact that the FAO is entering into a strategic alliance with a company such as CropLife makes the eyebrows frown. CropLife International is at odds with the values highlighted by the FAO here and in its long-term vision. Several actions have already been taken. Already when the partnership was signed, NGOs and scientists called on the FAO to be cautious. More than 180,000 individuals and organisations from 107 countries signed a petition in 2021, but the alliance remained intact. Now, civil society is looking at FAO Member States to take seriously the concerns of civil society, scientists, farmers, farm workers and indigenous communities, and of the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, and to urge the FAO to stop that partnership. What is Belgium's position on the partnership between the FAO and CropLife International? What action can and will you take to the FAO? How can we prevent such partnerships in the future? Do you follow the memorandi or understanding that the FAO closes with private actors and can be consulted by the Member States in general? What principles do you test to decide whether or not to take action? If you don't do that yet, how will that happen in the future? The second question is of a very different order, but certainly not unimportant. You may have been able to follow with us in all media that the dangerous cocktail of circumstances leads to a lot of hunger in the world. In some regions, the situation is becoming critical at the moment. I have a few specific questions about this. David Beasley, the director of the World Food Programme, calls for a pragmatic approach to the financing of projects. How do you respond to that question? What concrete policy choices does this lead to? Which priorities do you choose? What measures are you taking in the context of global famines? What budget has Belgium allocated to the problem? What is this budget specifically built up from? How will you ensure that the issue is given due attention at national, European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u12	Madam Minister, since the invasion of Ukraine, we can only see the importance of Ukraine and even Russia, not only for energy supplies, but also for global food supplies as global grain barns. In fact, we in the world depend on Russia and Ukraine. It concerns not only grain, but also maize, sunflower oil and fertilizers. These fertilizers are important not only for our farmers, but also for Africa, where people are confronted with food insecurity and the famine is only threatening to increase, think in particular of Somalia. Madam Minister, how does Belgium respond to food shortages, including in international cooperation? Do you provide additional support through international aid organisations, such as the World Food Programme? These organizations report their own supply problems. How do we deal with that? Have we done anything more to combat the famine in Somalia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u13	Madam President, with your permission, I will also answer Mr De Vuyst's questions so that he can read the answer in the integral report of the sitting, since he has been apologized for being present at another committee meeting. The war in Ukraine has serious consequences for food security in the world. However, this conflict is only one of the causes of the worsening food crises. The famine is also caused by local conflicts, such as in Ethiopia, climate change and social inequality. Let us not forget that the world is still recovering from the effects of the covid pandemic. All these factors together create a perfect storm, which is why the most vulnerable in the world are hit hardest again. The global consequences of the war in Ukraine are also high on the EU's agenda. The EU's sanctions are not intended to restrict exports, but are directed against the Russian Government, the financial sector and the economic elites to limit the Kremlin's ability to finance aggression. It's Russia, blocking ports on the Black Sea. It is Russian attacks that prevent farmers in Ukraine from harvesting and planting. Contrary to Russian disinformation, it is Russian aggression, which causes food insecurity and not sanctions. In the meantime, the EU is doing everything it can to enable exports of grain stocks. I therefore welcome the EU's diplomatic initiatives and the UN's efforts to make progress in this area. Russia is the second largest exporter of wheat, Ukraine the fourth largest. At least 20 countries in the world import more than half of the wheat from Ukraine and Russia. Countries such as Eritrea, Somalia and DRC are heavily dependent on imports of cereals from the countries around the Black Sea. Our partner countries, mainly in the Sahel and the Great Lakes region, have been reporting for a long time that food insecurity is increasing. In particular, they feel the effects of food price increases in general. Not only food prices are rising, energy prices and the cost of fertilisers are rising. Indeed, all this creates a socially restless climate. UN Secretary-General Mr Guterres said: 'If we don't feed the people, we feed conflict'. The fight against hunger is and remains a priority for me. In the short term, it is essential to bring humanitarian life-saving aid to the people. Food aid, nutritional value and agricultural recovery are among the five thematic priorities of the Belgian humanitarian aid strategy. We work together with the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs of OCHA, the World Food Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations of FAO to get the aid on the ground as quickly and efficiently as possible. These organisations receive multi-annual funding so that they can best plan their assistance. EUR 5 million per year will be allocated to the World Food Programme for the period 2021-2023, EUR 5 million per year for the Emergency Response Account of IRA for the period 2021-2022 and EUR 5 million per year for the Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation of SFERA. In addition, EUR 7.5 million will be allocated to a specific project with the World Food Programme in 2022 in the three geographical priority regions of Belgian humanitarian aid, namely the Sahel, the Great Lakes region, Syria and Ethiopia. In addition, in order to respond quickly to humanitarian crises, I have opted for flexible financing of the humanitarian response. Currently, more than 60% of Belgian humanitarian funding is allocated in an unintended manner, allowing humanitarian organisations to respond more quickly to crisis situations when they occur. Through flexible funding, we are also contributing to the needs of Somalia, although it is not part of the geographical priority regions of Belgian humanitarian aid and therefore does not receive earmarked humanitarian funding. For example, the CERF, the global UN fund to which Belgium contributes EUR 17 million annually, already released USD 17 million in January 2022 to help 450,000 people in the country. In April 2022 a further USD 14 million was added, specifically for food aid in Somalia. We have also made additional funds available with the government for the needs of Ukraine itself. A total of EUR 30 million was granted through our partners, OCHA, ICRC, UNICEF, the World Bank, IAMO and an international NGO for humanitarian support and support for basic services. At the same time, we must also work on structural solutions. Together with our partners, we want to address the causes of the food crisis by focusing on a transition to more sustainable and resilient food systems. Small-scale farmers, women and young people are at the heart of this. For example, efforts are being made to give them better access to local markets, to provide production resources and access to finance. In addition, many efforts are being made to guarantee their right to land ownership, to provide fair working conditions and to strengthen access to knowledge and technology. We are committed to agro-ecology in several of our partner countries, including in the Sahel. For example, we are helping small-scale farmers to produce more but also more sustainable products, reducing, for example, their dependence on chemical fertilisers, the prices of which have now risen. By strengthening local and diverse value chains instead of monoculture, we facilitate access to healthy food. In the DRC, for example, we have already supported more than 50,000 producers and 2,000 producer organisations between 2015 and 2022. We are working on increasing the production of a number of crops for consumption, such as maize, turnips and beans. Among other things, through the use of agro-ecological principles, we are also working on better quality and more diversification. In the new portfolio that is in preparation, this will be extended. In the Sahel, the climate partnership will focus on making farmers resilient to the effects of climate change. The rainy season is becoming less and less predictable in these regions. This has a huge impact on farmers' harvest and therefore on food security. Together we want to develop tools to better arm farmers against these changed conditions and strengthen their resilience. It is to be expected that 650,000 people will reap the benefits of this. In this context, we are also strongly committed to gender equality. For example, at least 40 to 50% of the country being restored will be granted to women. Support for small-scale producer organisations is not only provided by Enabel, but also by our multilateral partners and various NGOs. Through the social investment fund Kampani we also support local SMEs. Mrs Creemers, the alliance between CropLife and the FAO has been in existence since 2010 and aims to make industry more responsible and contribute to reducing the risks of pesticide use and a more sustainable pest control. The FAO has around 30 such partnership agreements with private sector actors. These cooperations should enable FAO to align with the private sector on the global transformation of agri-food systems. However, your concern about the cooperation with CropLife is justified. I will therefore ask my administration to request more information from the FAO. Mrs Depoorter, India's restriction on cereal exports is partly due to climatic conditions. The country has been plagued by extreme heat for several months, affecting the grain harvest throughout the country. It is estimated that this season's revenues will fall by 10 to 50%. India is not a partner country of Belgian government cooperation. However, 3 NGO programmes are funded. However, none of these programmes are focused on food production. Moreover, it is not a question of state-to-state cooperation. So there can be no diplomatic conditions attached to it either. Global food security is very high on the international and European agenda because of the rising needs and impact of the war in Ukraine. The subject was also one of the items on the agenda of the latest meeting of the European Development Council, where I explained my policy and called for attention to be paid to structural solutions and equivalent partnerships. The EU has already released additional resources in response to the current crisis and a plan of action has been drawn up that will be implemented in a Team-Europe approach with Member States. The rising food and energy prices affect us all, but let us not forget that the impact is not the same for everyone. Some countries, communities and people feel the impact of the crisis more than others. It is precisely for this reason that international solidarity is needed more than ever, because only together can we tackle the global crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u14	Madam Minister, food security is indeed a huge source of concern worldwide. You are right to point out that regions where there is no food are at great risk of conflict. The funds listed by you for humanitarian aid include EUR 7.5 million which you have shifted from public-private cooperation to short-term humanitarian aid. It is good that, in times of crisis, we resort to short-term action, but the sustainable solutions you cite should be implemented as a priority. In your answer, I miss the long-term view of the CAPACITATION of agriculture in Africa, for example. In your policy paper you will also focus on small-scale projects. It is good that you pay attention to gender equality, among other things, but we could be more ambitious. There are a lot of opportunities and a lot of raw materials available to achieve larger projects and to stimulate the economic fabric in those countries that are now in real difficulty. That economic fabric can be grown and linked to it, among other things, social protection. That's the big ideological difference between you and me. It is a good thing to help in small-scale projects, but the capacity of the countries in need must be a priority. You indicate that in India the harvest will be 10 to 50% lower. That's a very large margin. That has to be followed up anyway, because at 50% it is a different story than at 10%. In the latter case, people can be helped with the remaining 40% that can be made available to the market. It is good that the EU is making diplomatic efforts, but time is running out. The current stocks of cereals and raw materials are in danger of falling. It would be extremely unfortunate that people are dying of hunger while grain rotting in another place in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Of course, it is a good thing that partners receive annual budgets, but the prices of cereals and products they need are booming. So it does not seem illogical to me to increase budgets. I understand that from my point of view that is easier to say than from yours. In any case, I think it is my duty to point that out. If the crisis aid includes the supply of goods, it may disturb the local economy. I therefore hope that you will be aware of this and that as much as possible will be bought in the local markets. On agro-ecology and small-scale projects, I must contradict Mr Depoorter. That has nothing to do with ideology. During a very interesting hearing - it is a pity that your agenda did not allow you to attend, Mrs Depoorter, we received examples of very small projects in Rwanda, which were clearly said to be just because of small scale and agro-ecology that they do not feel the crisis now or hardly. Of course, they are also faced with high energy prices to drive their tractors, but they are not dependent on fertilizer and seed goods that have to come from the other side of the world. Just there's the power. It is, of course, difficult to put that into a global plan, but that is where the future lies. One must re-use local crops that grow well there. If we roll out agro-ecology altogether, there is social protection in it too. In addition, you say, Madam Minister, that the budget and its focus will increase further. Well, then we can learn from the agri-ecology projects that have been set up in the past and which we must recognise, ideologically or not, that they offer the right solutions. Madam Secretary, thank you for ordering the administration to request more information from the FAO on CropLife International. Agro-ecology is the future and then one cannot work with a company that takes its earning model from products of which one wants to become independent. Then there will certainly be no cooperation with that. We do not veto the FAO's cooperation with private sector actors. That will certainly be the future, but the FAO will have to do so with companies that go along with the philosophy and the long-term view that it will depend on small projects whether we continue to feed those regions with crisis aid in the future or whether we can make them truly independent. I hope that you will find an answer quickly and that it becomes clear that we as a Member State cannot agree to this cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u16	Thank you for your answer. I have heard elements of sustainability in this, but that is in the long term, namely the right to land ownership, the concern for production capacity and financing. Hence the importance of small-scale agriculture for self-sufficiency. An unhealthy, malnourished farmer can't work. We must ensure that their basic needs, such as education and medical care, are well served. To this end, and for the sake of large investments, we must focus on the rule of law. We will not do it in their place, but we must give them the means to do it and to allow for investment. I am also in favour of more small scale and self-sufficiency in basic needs, among other things, so that they take matters into their own hands in the future and we should not do so in their place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u17	Madam Secretary, one of the biggest challenges on the African continent remains the fight against HIV. Although there are virus inhibitors, availability and accessibility in developing countries is often a problem. Especially in newborn children and young people we see a rather big problem. Several studies show that the neurological consequences for this group are significant. Madam Secretary, can you explain the state of play of the HIV plan? Does this plan pay particular attention to the neurological consequences for HIV-positive mothers and their newborns? What is the focus on newborns and children exposed to antiretroviral therapy? Is the provision of anti-HIV virus inhibitors guaranteed in developing countries? What additional steps will be taken? Will you send it to me? What about the evaluation mechanisms? Due to the corona crisis, there is a drug on the market that uses ritonavir. It is also used in the fight against HIV. There is an imminent shortage of ritonavir. It is feared that this would put pressure on HIV plans. Did you know about that? Can anything be done about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u18	Ms Depooster, the Belgian strategy for health and HIV recognises the need for targeted financial programmed actions and policy actions to contribute to the 2030 HIV targets. The Belgian approach supports the recent Global AIDS Strategy 2021-2026, which was adopted last year in UNAIDS, also by Belgium. The HIV/AIDS strategy focuses on avoiding the transmission of HIV from mother to child during pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks of the newborns. The first approach is to target the mother to give early AIDS inhibitors. Due to the risk of transmission during childbirth and during the first weeks of breast-feeding, the newborn will also receive appropriate AIDS inhibitors to minimise the risk of HIV infection. Breast-feeding remains recommended. The WHO guidelines for the treatment of HIV emphasise the urgency of starting treatment in newborn young children. The HIV strategy and most national HIV plans focus on personalised healthcare. In addition to treatment with AIDS inhibitors, early and post-natal tests of the newborns are also used, as well as advice and guidance for the mothers and family. In the treatment of HIV, a combination of different medicines known as highly active antiretroviral therapy is used. The first combinations, which were administered in 2015 and 2016, reported neurological effects. The current combination therapy, which is used globally as an AIDS inhibitor, no longer has these known consequences. Access to AIDS inhibitors has increased globally in recent years thanks to targeted programmes from, among other things, the Global Fund, which accounts for a quarter of global funding. At the beginning of 2020 the logistical impact of COVID-19 was very feared, but access remained assured. At the end of 2021, ritonavir deficiency was warned due to its use as part of a COVID-19 treatment. However, there have been no reports so far that the availability of ritonavir as an HIV inhibitor has been compromised. My administration continues to follow closely, inter alia, through its participation in the board meetings of UNAIDS and the Global Fund, and follows the implementation of the Global AIDS Strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The new retroviral therapies are indeed less likely to cause neurological adverse reactions, but in the last study I refer to there is still reference to possible problems. I think it needs to be followed up one way or the other. Regarding the follow-up of babies and children who have received retroviral therapy, you say that there is guidance and that conversations and medical consultations are organised for the mothers and for the children. But I think that the focus on neurological issues should in any case be included in the protocols. HIV itself can incriminate the neurological problem, so can therapy. That is why it is a point of attention. As far as ritonavir is concerned, there is no problem today. There is a fear that there might be a problem. There too, attention will have to be paid to what could cause a subsequent wave. Right now we're in B4 and B5. That is why it seems to me that this should continue to be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u20	Madam President, I would like to refer to the question tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u21	I also have one additional question: do you think it might open the door to labour migration from Senegal?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u22	In Senegal important steps still need to be taken to combat all forms of discrimination, including homophobia. In the country, homosexual activities are punishable until further notice, and that is unacceptable. Belgian international solidarity focuses on a human rights approach, more even: it is a requirement for funding for all Belgian partner organisations. Last year, I approved several NGO projects in several of our partner countries, focusing on supporting lgbtqi organisations, tolerance for gender diversity in society and the protection of lgbtqi activists. With this approach, we want to take concrete steps forward to improve the living conditions of holebis in our partner countries. Within the Belgian intergovernmental cooperation with Senegal, Enabel carries out projects that focus on the health of women, newborns, children and adolescents, including gender-based violence. It also addresses sustainable entrepreneurship, decent work and access to quality medicines and vaccines. This portfolio runs until July 2024 for a budget of 49 million euros. Gender equality is also an important part of the thematic portfolio of climate, which Enabel implements in Senegal, among others, with a value of EUR 11.5 million. In Senegal, for example, we are going to work with 200 women's organisations. The EU has also included non-discrimination against minorities including lgbtqi+ as one of the priorities of their human rights strategy in Senegal for the period 2021-2024. The Belgian Embassy in Dakar has actively contributed to the formulation of this strategy and is currently following its implementation. Human rights are also always on the agenda of political dialogue between the European Union, the EU Member States and Senegal. The next meeting is scheduled for this autumn. This input and its follow-up are the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For the other funding flows to Senegal, I refer to non-governmental development cooperation, of which we have just approved the new programmes for 2022-2026. During this period, 25 new programmes for the Senegalese population will be implemented for an amount of EUR 21.4 million by Belgian NGOs and 5 institutional actors. All these organisations work together with local partner organisations and operate in different sectors, such as agriculture, food security, gender equality, health, entrepreneurship, education, decent work and decentralisation. Finally, Belgium is making core funding at multilateral level, which are contributions to the general resources of the organisations. In Senegal, however, an additional €2 million was allocated in 2020 to the Global Flagship Programme on Building Social Protection Floors for All, implemented by the International Labour Organisation ILO to develop and strengthen social protection systems in the country. Mrs Samyn, the specific project to which you refer concerns a so-called third party contract. These are projects that Enabel carries out with funding for other clients. In this case, the financing of the European Union in cooperation with the International Centre for Migration Policy Development for a total amount of EUR 2,611.596. The Aliens Office co-financed that project for 5% of the amount, i.e. EUR 130.596. For more details on that specific project, I suggest you ask Secretary of State Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The human rights situation in Senegal is not particularly encouraging. Free opinion is still too often restricted. Members of the opposition and dissidents are imprisoned after unfair trials. The arbitrary arrests and excessive violence against the Igbtqi community are also absolutely unacceptable. I therefore hope that it will be made clear in international fora, and this is also reflected in your reply, Mr President, that such facts cannot be accepted at all. I would like to return to the question of funding. It is partly financed by the EU, by the Foreign Affairs Office and by the Home Affairs Office of Belgium. So these resources are actually kept out of your budget. It is, in other words, an extra budget for development cooperation. As a result, additional development aid from Belgium is given to Senegal. With an apology for my last question, I would also like to return to the possibility of labour migration from Senegal. Surely that's something to be alert about. The economy and the labour market do not require additional labour migration. We have plenty of inactive Belgians to put to work here. In addition, we must pay attention, because this is how we create a brain drain by removing the economic potential from a growing country such as Senegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u24	Madam Minister, it is now two years since the law on combating sexual abuse in development cooperation was adopted. For this, a number of royal decrees had to be written out. Unfortunately, sexual abuse is a problem that we too often encounter in scandals in the context of development cooperation. That is why a legislative proposal on this matter was tabled at the time and the law was also adopted. What is the state of play on the royal decision to be taken? Are there any sanctions in that KB? If so, on what grounds? If not, why? How many reports of sexual abuse linked to development cooperation and NGOs were received in 2020, 2021 and 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u25	Mrs Depoorter, I know that this is a very important subject for you. My administration drew up a draft KB that was delivered last week for a final review to the federations of non-governmental and institutional actors, Enabel and BIO. This is in accordance with the law, which states that the RB must be consulted with the relevant actors. After that, the draft of KB will be finalized and delivered to me, after which I will submit it to the Council of State for its opinion. The Royal Decree will indeed provide for a sanction mechanism whereby a partner organisation may be deprived of its recognition and, where appropriate, ongoing funding. My administration has received no reports of sexual abuse for the period to which you refer and does not have the figures of reports received from the actors themselves. The Charter Integrity determines that the actors themselves communicate about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u26	Madam Secretary, it is good news that two years after the date, there would be a KB in the making. I am particularly looking forward to that because this will help our victims. I think it is very good that a sanction mechanism is also being introduced. As soon as I get the text, I will, of course, check to what extent the arguments were taken into account effectively as we intended when discussing the legislative proposal. However, I do have a remark. It is a problem that the actors must pass on the notifications to your services and that this does not happen automatically. Victims should be able to report in a very simple way that there has been a problem somewhere in the world with an NGO working in the context of development cooperation. Your services should certainly be informed of this via an automatic system. We must continue to work on this because it is unacceptable that victims should be dependent on the goodwill of certain players.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u27	Madam President, Minister, you have been to Bukavu, where a conflict has flared up for years. In this conflict, both Congo and some of its neighbours and various rebel groups are involved. So the Congolese government also has an interest and a share in the conflict. According to Mrs Nsayi, our government could also work towards better and more transparent development cooperation with Congo. Cooperation could focus more on supporting local Congolese companies and organisations, rather than projects carried out by Belgian companies. What visits did you make in Bukavu, besides visiting Mr Mukwege's hospital? To what end was that? What did these visits lead to? Was there also an opportunity for dialogue with the local population? What did you learn from that? How do you respond to Mrs Nsayi's concerns regarding development cooperation? What new developments and plans are currently on the table with regard to development cooperation with Congo? How has the possible impact of the election results been taken into account? How do you respond to the Congolese President's share of the conflict in Eastern Congo? What message will you convey in the international community about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u28	Madam Minister, Dr Mukwege said that the conflict in Eastern Congo is at the same level as that in Ukraine and should be dealt with in this way. When I first came to the Senate in 2010, Mrs Miet Smet set up a program with Dr Mukwege to ensure that sexual violence would be tackled from Belgium and that victims of sexual violence would be helped. We are now 12 years later and the problem has only got worse. We see a balkanisation of East Congo, where rebel groups, Rwanda and Congo have an interest in a distribution and control strategy, in order to exploit the mines. Those rebels will easily become soldiers and vice versa. In the meantime, women become victims. All over the world, but especially in Congo, they are victims of sexual violence. There is no way of getting water or working the land without the risk of rape. That's not just about women, that's about girls, that's about babies being raped in that horrible violence. So I understand Dr. Mukwege's despair. I can imagine that you have also talked to him about this and about the extension of the reception of victims of sexual violence in the Eastern Congo region and the role of Belgium in this. In what way will this be included in the programme for 2023-2027? You also know that protests in Eastern Congo are being smothered in the bud, not only by the rebels but also by the government. Have you talked to human rights defenders? Have concrete agreements been made on how Belgium can contribute to supporting human rights defenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u29	Madam President, at the invitation of President Tshisekedi, the King and Queen paid an official visit to the Democratic Republic of Congo from Tuesday 7 June to Monday 13 June. They were accompanied by the Prime Minister, Secretary of State Dermine and myself. The Belgian delegation visited Kinshasa, Lubumbashi and Bukavu. As Minister Gilkinet, on behalf of the Prime Minister, explained in detail in plenary last week, this was a historic visit of great symbolic value. With Congo we share a long history. The visit acknowledged the common past, but also its negative aspects. Such recognition also allows us to look forward and work towards a partnership that will help the people and the people of Congo to move forward. That is exactly what I want to do as Minister for Development Cooperation. The challenges facing the Congolese people are immense. Of the Congolese population, 46% are under 15 years of age, and more than three quarters of the population live in poverty. As you know, we are fully working on a new five-year programme for governmental cooperation with the DRC. The new portfolio will work together to strengthen the socio-economic integration of Congolese youth and to improve access to basic services such as education and health care. Family farming and agricultural entrepreneurship will also be supported. Finally, there will be a section on strengthening democracy and the rule of law, with particular attention to combating sexual violence and sound financial management. The aim is to complete the new portfolio by the end of this year. The visit allowed us to continue our dialogue on this subject. During the visit we were also able to officially confirm some other cooperation initiatives. For example, I signed, together with the Congolese partner, the Congolese chapter of the new thematic portfolio on social protection, which will be implemented in Congo, Rwanda and Uganda from 2022 to 2026, for a total budget of EUR 50 million. This portfolio is very important, because it aims to lead young people and women to decent work in the three countries, to provide more protection in the workplace, to strengthen their social security and to achieve a more inclusive social dialogue. Special attention is paid to women working in the informal economy, but also to artisan miners. By 'worthy jobs' we mean jobs that meet the definition of international labour organisations. In the case of Congo, these are minimum income jobs, access to basic health insurance, protection in the workplace and strengthening social dialogue. The calculation of the target of 12,000 jobs in Congo was based on a calculation of the known costs of the activities that Enabel will carry out with its partners and within the available budget. As I have already explained in several replies, the evaluation will also consist of an interim and a final evaluation. The evaluation framework of this portfolio will be co-ordinated with the HIVA, the Higher Institute for Labour of the KU Leuven. The same approach will be followed for Uganda and Rwanda. The budget for Uganda is EUR 16.2 million and for Rwanda EUR 17.6 million. In addition, during the visit with the Congolese Minister, I signed a memorandum expressing the joint intentions of working together to strengthen the role of young people in the consolidation, preservation and promotion of cultural heritage. After all, it is important that Congolese young people are also involved in this debate and actively supported by training in this sector. It is too early to speculate now on the possible impact of the Congolese elections of 2023 on our cooperation. It is, of course, very important for Congolese citizens that the electoral process should be credible and transparent so that they can have a government that they trust and that is committed to improving their living conditions. Mrs Van Hoof, you asked a question about the visit to the Panzi hospital and Belgium's contribution to the reception of victims of sexual violence. The fight against all forms of violence against women and girls, and in particular sexual violence, has been a priority of our development cooperation and foreign policy for almost 20 years. In the DRC, through our development agency Enabel, we are implementing a specific programme aimed at improving the accessibility and quality of care for victims of sexual violence. In addition to medical and psychosocial care, this programme is also aimed at setting up a prevention system and at strengthening legal care. Such a holistic approach is based on the experiences of Mr Mukwege in the Panziekenhuis. At the end of last year I decided to double the programme's budget so that it can be implemented in two additional provinces. This project will continue in the new five-year programme that we are preparing with the DRC. We also finance a project in which the University of Liège, together with the Panzi Foundation, scientifically supports and strengthens this holistic care approach. In order to combat sexual violence, it is also important to work preventively. Last year, therefore, I approved two specific projects focusing in the DRC on gender equality and positive masculinity, including one in South Kivu. Finally, we are also funding a project of the United Nations Human Rights Office which is working in seven provinces, including again South Kivu, to combat impunity and the protection of victims. In addition to these specific projects, we must not forget our general contribution to UN Women, the United Nations Population Fund and UNICEF. These three are very active around this theme. There is therefore a great deal going on here, both in Kivu and abroad. In addition to visiting the Panzi hospital, I accompanied the royal couple in Bukavu during their visit to the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture. This is a research institution that we support and is working on increasing the nutritional value and yield of agricultural crops. This work cannot, of course, be more relevant in the current context of food insecurity as a result of the Ukraine crisis. Mrs Creemers, as regards your question about Nadia Nsayi's statements on road construction in which Belgian companies would be involved, our agency Enabel has in the past carried out projects in several provinces, building rural roads and restoring ferries. The aim of these projects is to strengthen the local economy by connecting small farmers to local markets. In addition, an approach is followed whereby the pathways are divided into small pieces to give the small local firms as much as possible the opportunity to carry out part of the work. That is a conscious choice, because otherwise only large companies would have the capacity to carry out these works. In addition, the HIMO method, Haute Intensité de Main-d'Oeuvre, is applied. This means that more manual work has been chosen instead of mechanized work. That too has been a conscious choice, to create as much work as possible for the local population. Of course, public procurement rules must be followed, as in Belgium. This means that Belgian companies can indeed participate and win a public contract, but in practice this is very limited. I give the example of the PRODADEKK project, a project that Enabel carried out in the provinces of Kwilu and Kwango, which was closed in 2018. There, 583 km of road was rehabilitated, 9 bridges were built and 6 ferries were built or restored. A total of 92 public contracts were organised for this purpose. One was carried out by the Belgian company Meuse & Sambre for the construction of a ferry. The road works have all been carried out by Congolese companies. This therefore fits within the Belgian vision of working in an unbound manner. In the latest OECD report on untied aid, Belgium was still congratulated for its transparency. As regards Belgium's diplomatic efforts on the conflict in the east, I suggest that you ask the Prime Minister about this, as he is currently responsible for foreign affairs. The biggest victims in such situations are always local citizens, not least the girls and women who have to deal with sexual violence as a weapon of war. It is therefore urgent to put an end to the instability and insecurity that has plagued the region for many years now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u30	Madam Secretary, the announcement of the 12,000 jobs is therefore a preliminaries of the five-year plan you are working on?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u31	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u32	There too, we must keep an eye on sustainability. If 12,000 jobs are created in society forever, so to speak, then that is only positive. Attention to the upcoming elections is certainly needed, because instability lurks around the corner in elections in this region. As far as health projects are concerned, I would like to draw attention to both the access to contraception and the awareness surrounding it, where there is still a great deal of work to be done, and also to maternal mortality. Today in Congo, 473 women die per 100,000 babies born, in Flanders, there are 5. This is and remains a focus of attention. As far as the evaluation is concerned, you are talking about an interim evaluation and about a final evaluation. Mr Creemers spoke about public procurement, but this week there was also the publication on the actions of the public prosecutor on the Congo hold-up, which is a result of intransigence and lack of control. Our group has long advocated targeted, transparent controls. This can only increase the support for global solidarity. It must remain a focus. For the diplomatic question, please refer to Prime Minister De Croo. I'm surprised you didn't do that for the Israeli-Gaza conflict. Conflicts must be assessed in the same way throughout the world, and the government must ensure that they do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u33	Madam Minister, there were a number of interesting things in your answer and certainly in the introduction, in which you say that it is your job as Minister of Development Cooperation to look at the future and the possibilities. I also think that you have done well in the past week. Mr Depoorter referred to the support base to increase global solidarity. This can now, by continuing to communicate about it, by taking with it the good examples you have seen. Just before you left, you said in the press that you would actually take everyone there. You can continue to communicate about the experiences you have now gained. For example, you excite me with the story about the Institute of Tropical Agriculture. It is, of course, a different reality, especially with climate change and the loss of biodiversity, from a few decades ago when they were still living in their local small-scale farming communities. Thank you for your explanation regarding the local versus Belgian employment. If 92 public contracts are carried out by local companies and one by the Belgians, then we are on the right track, because the aim is, of course, to strengthen the local economy and connect farmers. If this can be done as far as local companies are concerned, we are on the same page, and you have corrected the criticism of this. There's still a lot of communication material in your trip. You can certainly roll out the good examples even more, especially the small-scale ones with a lot of future ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u34	Madam Minister, the Minister's answers clearly also provide for a new programme of basic needs, including social protection and decent work, which I very much support. You started your story with the fact that three quarters live in poverty. You seem to have been shocked by that during your visit to the Congo. The question remains: how can we move a stone into it? Another bottleneck in Congo remains the rule of law, democracy and human rights. If we could better support that framework, much more could be done in terms of basic needs. There is little rule of law and human rights in Eastern Congo. I saw the despair in Dr. Mukwege's eyes. There's a war there. Women are used as weapons of war there, as in Ukraine or Afghanistan, where girls are raped. There is a lot of effort on this, but if one does not tackle the cause of this, the mopping with the crane remains open. It is therefore very important that you have added that fourth pillar of the rule of law, democracy and human rights to focus on that. You will find that if the upcoming elections do not go well, the current Congolese government may be the first to stop that support, as Kabila once did, and manage things itself. That is dangerous, and that is why this dialogue is important to ensure that investments are possible. After all, many companies are not prepared to invest in uncertain conditions. It is a good thing that you added that element and identified it as a priority. We will certainly be monitoring this in the context of the 2023 elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u35	Madam Minister, a message in L'Echo said that Vooruit would ask for agreements in the government agreement on the link between investments in Defence and budgets for development cooperation. Whether or not that 2% will be sought depends on whether the government will reach an agreement on this matter. Apparently that is not the case today. That 2% came on the table, especially as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. I would like to hear from you about the link between these policy areas. Is the message true in L'Echo, or not? What key would you take between development cooperation and defense? Was this also discussed with the Secretary of Defense? Is this even a government position?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to add my voice to the question. Madam Secretary said at the beginning what Guterres said: "If you don't feed the world, you feed the conflict." I believe that conflicts should not only be fueled by defence, but above all we should help the world to prevent conflicts. It is not linked to the coalition agreement, but that 2% is now being discussed here. The 0,7% is clearly in the coalition agreement, with the growth path. We have talked about it several times. Personally, I also believe, for what Guterres says, but also for what you say, that the link can be made without being explicitly made in the coalition agreement. At that time we did not know that there would be a conflict in Ukraine, from which that 2% results much faster than anticipated today. You have often said here in committee that you are working on a concrete plan. That is what you stated here in committee in May 2022, namely that you want to go to the budget discussions with that plan. How's that going? Have you already drawn up a concrete plan in which we can have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for the questions. The war in Ukraine shows that our security is a collective mission and that Europe cannot depend on others in this respect. Belgium must therefore assume its responsibility to contribute to collective security. However, that does not stop at the Ministry of Defence, it is also about diplomacy and development. Our international solidarity is simply inextricably linked to collective security, because this is how we tackle the root causes of instability and conflict. There is no development without security. There is also no security without development. For me, therefore, the growth path to 0,7% is an essential part of our country's security strategy, which includes investment for defence. The coalition agreement is, moreover, crystal clear on this point: there must be a growth path for solidarity towards 0,7% of gross national income. I have therefore taken my responsibility and put a proposal on the table. Discussions within the government on this proposal are currently under way. In order to give these discussions every chance of success, I would rather not elaborate on the details of the proposal at this time. We will first discuss it further within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u38	Madam President, Minister, your answer is hallucinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u39	Madam Secretary, I think it is a hallucinating answer. You are actually saying that the growth path on development cooperation, which I have asked you about several times and on which you did not really reach an agreement with Minister Van Peteghem, will be completed by taking something away from the increase in the defence budget to 2%, as requested by NATO. So you will send the Prime Minister to NATO at the end of June...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u40	Sorry, you're tying two things together. My growth path to 0,7 % has nothing to do with the defense budget. That's not from the budget. I want to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u41	That's how I understood it. That's why I called it hallucinating. I take those words back. In any case, I am concerned because the message that Belgium will invest more in development cooperation and do a little less for Defence cannot bring the Prime Minister to NATO. I'm waiting for the government to come to an agreement. I've already read that it's going to be a salami chord. I don't know what it will eventually be, but at least I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u42	Madam Secretary, we are all looking forward to that, as are you. You hope that the 0,7% will be there and I am confident that you have put it on the table, together with other partners in the government, because my party was also the author of a proposal for an increase of 0,7% in Parliament and supported this in the government agreement. I am, of course, pleased that a growth path is ultimately in place towards 2030. That's the first time in over 15 years. I am particularly pleased that it is on the table and hope, of course, that it will come out of the negotiations this week or at the latest next week, before the Prime Minister leaves for Madrid for the NATO summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u43	Madam President, Minister, following Feronia's bankruptcy in July 2020, BIO Bank had agreed to cancel 50% of Feronia's debt, provided that a new environmental and social action plan was adopted to improve the environmental and social aspects of the project and the situation of communities living in its area of influence. If the objectives of this plan were to be achieved, the debt would then be written off at 80 per cent. As a reminder, this debt amounted to $11 million. So it was potentially a relatively significant public money gift. In February 2021, you told us in committee that you had asked BIO to step out of Feronia by June 30, 2022. This release was announced by BIO's Board of Directors in January 2021. In the meantime, every effort should be made to improve wages and working conditions. You also said that the plan included several stages of implementation aimed at improving the working conditions of workers, the living conditions of local communities and the environmental status of the company. In addition, BIO is committed to supporting and accelerating mediation resulting from the processing of the complaint filed by several communities with the independent complaint mechanism. However, when I asked my question in 2021, this mediation could not have started following the health crisis. Minister, is the total release of BIO from Feronia confirmed? It's almost June 30th. Has the environmental and social action plan actually been implemented? Is a detailed performance report available; and if so, can this report be forwarded to the House? Do you have any concrete data on improving wages and working conditions? Has the mediation following the complaint filed by the local communities started? If so, where exactly are we? What was the outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u44	Member of Parliament, since March 2022, BIO is no longer a shareholder of Plantations et oileries du Congo (PHC). The last Economic, Social and Governance Committee with PHC was held in December 2021. From this meeting, BIO notes that 58 of the 83 actions in the environmental and social action plan have been completed or are on track, 19 are pending and 6 are late. From this last meeting, BIO also notes that PHC is making good progress in implementing the investments planned for 2021 and agreed with local communities. By the end of the third quarter of 2021, PHC finalized two schools in Lokoto. Ten schools are still under construction. By the end of the 2021 planning, one third of the schools and health centres promised will have been built. Personal protective equipment is still not available for all workers due to delays in supply. An agricultural community development expert has been hired to support the local community investment program that PHC wishes to further develop in line with its new strategy. The latest report received by BIO on the remuneration of employees and working conditions of workers shows that in the third quarter of 2021, the permanent workforce of PHC was 6,462, an increase of 40% compared to the second quarter of 2021. This significant increase is the result of PHC's strategy to stop casual workers. Delays in paying employees have become less frequent than before but still require special attention. PHC has increased wages in connection with inflation. All PHC jobs are paid more than the DRC's legal minimum wage. The Independent Complaint Mechanism mediators started their mission on site in May 2022. BIO will receive a first report next week. Madame de Laveleye, despite progress in some areas, I realize that the results are mixed. I am of the opinion that this investment should never have been made. I want to avoid cases like Feronia in the future. I will therefore ensure that BIO invests more, with better and more reasonable diligence, and strengthens its monitoring of the ecological and social aspects of their investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u45	Thank you very much, minister, for your answer. I think you had already made it very clear from the beginning of your term of office that the Feronia project did not correspond in any way to your vision of what development cooperation work was. I think it was very clear from the beginning. I note that there are improvements, including fewer casual workers, and an increase in wages. What is not very clear to me is the following. Have the 80% debt cancellations been recorded? Is it totally actuated or not? The solution is that 80 per cent of the debt must be written off as soon as the social and environmental project is implemented. Is that confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u46	I'll look it up later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u47	Thank you. This point was quite central to my question and I would like it to be acted upon. You also did not answer the following question; will the project's progress report be available for improvement of the social and environmental conditions of the project? With BIO, I know that the transparency of their projects is often an issue. It may be interesting, given the donation of money in this context, for the project to be carried out in full transparency. I hope that can be the case. Pending these two supplementary answers, we will close here for today, but I would be interested to have the follow-up. I don't know if I'll come back with a question again or if I'll get the information elsewhere. I hear that mediation is under way and there will be a return. I will come back to this at another time. But thank you very much for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u48	Madam Minister, in a study conducted by the Coalition against Hunger and Flemish and Francophone Cupolas of Development Cooperation (11.11.11 and the CNCD-11.11.11), it appears that the Malagasy company JTF, a subsidiary of the Italian multinational Tozzi Green, receives the third largest funding from BIO in the agri-food sector. This company grows more than 10,000 hectares in Madagascar, mainly feed corn, as well as soybeans and crops for the production of essential oil. The impact of Tozzi Green-JTF on the ground, particularly in terms of land conflict and lack of consultation with local populations, has given rise to protests from the Malagasy population as early as 2012 and has been the subject of publications by European civil society – particularly academically. A team of Entraide and Fraternity and CETRI recently visited the site to examine in depth the development effects of these activities. New publications are planned on this subject. Although conscious of the pre-conflicts and accusations of land grabbing by the company, BIO granted in November 2019 – in short, years after this problem was made public – a loan of 3.75 million euros to JTF. This raises questions, especially in the light of the controversies surrounding the financing of Feronia in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which led to the disengagement of Belgium from this investment harmful to the people. Minister, has the repayment of the loan by JTF already been executed? Otherwise, what are the deadlines? Is further funding already envisaged? In addition, two grants were awarded by BIO, for a total of €75,000 in 2019 and 2020. The first was intended, inter alia, to prepare a "socio-economic baseline study to fill the gaps in the environmental impact assessment, develop a follow-up plan to assess the impact of long-term development and inform future JTF land acquisition decisions accordingly". Could this study have been shared? Reference is made to " environmental impact assessment gaps". What exactly is this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u49	Madame de Laveleye, the repayment of BIO's loan to Tozzi Green-JTF began in January 2022 and will run until January 2028. BIO is not currently considering any additional funding for this company. The socio-economic study you are referring to was conducted to improve the process of acquiring JTF's land ownership and to increase the participation of affected communities. One of the purposes of the study was to identify and describe the communities concerned and to analyse the positive and negative impacts of the company's activities on local communities. The results of the report were taken into account in the development of a four-year strategic community development plan, the implementation of which began in 2021. As this socio-economic study is the property of JTF, I cannot communicate it to you. According to BIO, there are significant gaps in the analysis of the socio-economic situation, biodiversity and cultural heritage. There is also a lack of assessment of potential loss of access to land and livelihoods. As a result, a due diligence study was conducted by the external company MFS Social and Environment Performance. This study confirms the increase in the incomes of local communities and the absence of complaints about the loss of access to agricultural land. However, she concluded that there was a need to establish a course of action and to monitor the development of the livelihoods of local communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u50	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I sincerely hope that we do not find ourselves again in front of a project in which BIO would have made an economic choice before making a development choice. We're barely getting out of Feronia's bad investment. I sincerely hope that we are not repeating the same difficulties. I mean, for now, there would be an increase in revenue, and there's no complaint. I remain very puzzled by the fact that investments were made by our development bank in 2019, in knowledge of a terrain that was not conducive to a truly ambitious vision in terms of development cooperation, respect for workers, land rights and biodiversity protection. I'm still very puzzled. We are at the beginning of a long process that will go until 2028. There's a way to do good things about that time. There is also a way to do very bad things. This will require all your follow-up and ours, from Parliament, in addition to that exercised by civil society on this issue. We will certainly come back to that, but I thank you already for your attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u51	Minister, CNCD-11.11.11, the Flemish Cupola 11.11.11 and the Coalition Against Hunger have recently published three policy briefs based on a study carried out by a team of the University of Antwerp, a study entitled The Belgian Investment Society for Developing Countries (BIO) as an actor in sustainable development. These three policy briefs focus on the impact of BIO in the fields of climate and agriculture and as a player in development cooperation. A summary of the study was also published by sponsors. Without going back to the recommendations of the policy briefs, because our committee invited BIO and this university team to come and discuss them in a few days, I am already coming to you on the basis of the general findings of the study, summarized as follows: "While the Belgian State does not seem to realize that BIO is on an equal footing with the State in the execution of its public objective. In addition, the Belgian State seems to have little control over the institution and an informal dialogue seems even to take place between the two. However, several elements call for greater vigilance: controversial investments such as those of Feronia; a focus on the economic dimension of sustainable development; a high degree of trust in clients; the absence of a rights-based approach to economic and social risks; lack of transparency; and the absence of mandatory systematic involvement of affected (potentially) communities. Although positive changes have certainly been made to the operational framework, improvements are still possible in order to create genuine sustainable development in the targeted intervention countries." Minister, I have no doubt that you have read this study. How do you work with BIO on the basis of these findings, as well as the recommendations set out in the policy briefs? I am not asking for a full answer, because I think it would be too much for this committee, but rather for work prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u52	Ma'am, I've read about this study. I would like to stress that I very much appreciate the interest and efforts of civil society in analysing BIO's performance and making recommendations to improve it. The expertise of NGOs can add value to an organization like BIO, given the sustainable development objective they share. Dialogue with civil society organisations is an important part of BIO's engagement with its stakeholders. I therefore welcome BIO's recent decision to initiate a structural dialogue with NGOs. BIO organized a first workshop in March and will continue to consult NGOs in the coming months on the basis of three policy briefing themes. The NGO recommendations in the policy briefings contain ideas, suggestions and recommendations that need to be considered and discussed. At the last meeting of the Board of Directors, my Government Commissioner asked that BIO take the recommendations contained in the NGO policy letters to heart and prepare a management response. I'll see to it that the organization takes care of it. I look forward to the results of the exchanges between BIO and NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u53	Minister, thank you very much for this first return. The study of the University of Antwerp and the analysis work of civil society are of great density. I hear there is a dialogue between BIO and civil society. It is certainly desirable and very positive. However, it is up to you as a minister and to us as parliamentarians to give BIO extremely clear guidance. We know that their management contract will be renewed in 2023. This study therefore seems to me to come out at the right time to tackle the serious issues that arise. For my part, I remain very puzzled when I observe that public money continues to be paid to BIO, which continues to finance fossil fuels and invest in intensive agriculture - which does not really address the problem of hunger in the countries concerned - and which places economic interests ahead of those of local people. That is deeply disturbing. I know you care too. This study must be taken for what it is, that is, an opportunity to undertake substantive work with BIO and set a new course from 2023 on through the new management contract. I'm sure that's the direction you're going to take. You have our full support. We are going to discuss with the interested parties at the end of the month...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u54	July.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic819x.u55	July? All right. This will surely be an interesting moment, after which we will be able to return to you. Thank you.
