ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u1	Madam President, I can only now see that my questions, about various measures, are being thrown up in this topical debate. At the same time, I was listening with a lot of attention to the live press conference on the energy deal decided by the government last night. Madam Secretary of State, some of my questions have now become obsolete. However, I would also like to comment on the topicality of the matter, as it is a matter of burning topicality. You called the bell to the cat by writing an opinion piece of your own. You were initially not won for a VAT reduction on energy in that opinion piece on Knack's website. You also advocated using the money that would go towards that reduction to increase supply or to reduce social security contributions. You wrote: "Because of higher energy prices, the government also receives higher VAT on energy. It is true that higher energy prices also allow the government to have higher VAT revenues." Can you sum up that higher income? All sorts of figures are being put forward at the moment. For example, the agreement before us today would cost EUR 1.3 billion. According to the government, EUR 1 billion comes from the increased revenue from debt securities. The figures we have requested from the Minister of Finance show that there is a more than 2 billion entry in 2021 alone. Then the Ukraine crisis, with the resulting price increases, is not even included. What about the funding? Furthermore, you said in your opinion: "For the sake of clarity, higher energy prices will result in higher inflation, which in turn will result in indexation a little later." Are you still convinced that inflation is budget-neutral? That question is somewhat out of date, because you have already argued in committee that this will have a negative impact on the budget. How big will that negative impact be? Several slopes were on the table. Which of the proposals have you always preferred? How feasible and realistic did you consider these proposals to be? This government is making temporary VAT reductions. The Flemish Interest is pleased to see a number of VAT reductions, but of course has been advocating permanent VAT reductions for over a year. This government is dragging itself from energy deal to energy deal to introduce temporary VAT reductions. However, we know that in the long term these will lead to higher prices. How can we avoid temporary VAT reductions leading to a permanent increase in gas and electricity prices? Is a permanent VAT reduction not preferable, since electricity and gas are basic needs? In the budget, the government has provided a budget of EUR 208 million for the extended social tariff. In the meantime, we know that the extended social tariff was extended until September. You know that after that, the winter months start again. It gets cold again and will have to be heated again. Do you not think it would be wise to extend that social tariff again? Madam Secretary of State, you were not in favour of that tax reduction on energy. However, your analysis is contradicted by an analysis of the VRT. Energy specialist Luc Pauwels thoroughly analysed the energy bills and already in January found that the cost of electricity and gas for an average Flemish family has more than quadrupled. In the meantime that is even more so. The VRT analysis also shows that VAT revenue for the federal budget increased by EUR 595 per family per year. According to current prices, which have more than quadrupled in the meantime, a reduction in VAT would still be an additional €50 per family per year. What is your response to the findings of the VRT? Can you confirm or disprove that analysis of the VRT? This analysis also shows that for the first time in decades the federal share of the electricity bill has grown larger than the Flemish share. What is your response to the VRT's conclusion that the conversion of federal taxes and rates into excise duties has been very limited? It is remarkable that the reformed excise duties are partly responsible for the price increase compared to January last year. Can you confirm or refute the VRT's conclusion? Do you, as Secretary of State, have a view on the balance of a VAT reduction for the budget? What are the total monthly additional revenue for the budget or, if that data is not yet available, from December 2021 compared to December 2020? I would have liked to take that against the total monthly revenue reduction for the budget of a VAT reduction of 21 to 6%. What concrete proposals do you propose to make for a structural and sustainable reform of the energy bill? The measures now being taken are very temporary and do not eliminate the underlying problem. So what do you propose to do about this underlying problem? I would then like to talk about the cost of the energy agreements, both the agreement concluded at the beginning of February and the agreement concluded last night. The first cost EUR 1.1 billion in total. Today, a price of 1.3 billion euros circulates. Together, this makes EUR 2.4 billion. This expenditure is partly offset by the increase in revenue. What are the costs of the one-off heating premium of EUR 100, but also the EUR 400 cheque that is now being awarded for fuel oil, the budget in the end? Can you specify that for both separately? What is the cost of the temporary VAT reduction on electricity on the one hand and the temporary VAT reduction on gas on the other? The extension of the extended social tariff is also a cost factor. Can you specify those costs separately, both for the second quarter and for the third quarter? Different figures are circulating on the increase in revenue due to increased energy prices. How much more revenue are they in the end? The budget finally provided for an amount of EUR 2.8 billion. Is that amount still properly budgeted? Did the calculations also include the increase in pump prices, including diesel and petrol, in EUR 1 billion compared to EUR 1.3 billion this morning? If we get the full figures from the Minister of Finance, that does not appear to be the case. Finally, I will take up the matter of topical and urgent debate. What measures do you consider necessary and what impact do you expect from the extreme energy and fuel prices on the budget? So do you have a rough assessment of the overall budgetary impact on the federal government budget deficit?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, many questions have been asked. You have also received my written questions, so I will not go over them all. I would like to update them and ask a few supplementary questions, given that this is a topical debate. First of all, how was the table yesterday? I assume that you were present at the meeting of the nuclear cabinet and followed all the debates, since it is about very large budgetary masses. I also assume that you have accompanied the debates with the necessary figures. So how was it and what do you think of the agreement? I also see that all excellence has now been communicated through social media. I didn't find a tweet of yours right away. I saw, for example, that Vincent Van Peteghem, the Minister of Finance, is relieved and satisfied. I can imagine that he's relieved, but I can't imagine that he's satisfied. So I would like to know what you, as Open Vld-politics but also, of course, as Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Affairs, think. The energy agreement also comes with a corresponding cost for the budget. What advice have you given with regard to the budget? Can you provide us with a comprehensive table, ideally broken down per month, showing the exact budgetary impact of what was decided last night? So, how was dinner? What do you think of it and what numbers were circulating? Then I come to the second part of my question. Now the government's doing it again. Last week we discussed the difference between the gross cost and the net cost of a number of agreements. Last time, a package of energy measures was taken with a budgetary cost of 1.1 billion. The government said that at that time it actually cost only 300 million, given the increased revenue from excise duties and VAT on the sale of fuels. So she had to look for only 300 million. You said it was a false reasoning. The budgetary cost of the agreement at the time was about 1 billion. These would be financed by a number of other budget budgets and meant that for a number of planned expenditure the government would have to seek additional money or that additional savings would have to be made or that additional deficits would be built up. Last week, we discussed this widely here in committee and then made a warm appeal not to do so again. But what do we see now? Now the government's doing it again. Instead of just admitting that a package with a budget cost of EUR 1.3 billion has been decided, the new show says that the package costs only EUR 200 million. Last time it was 300 million, now it's 200 million. There are always 1.1 billion extra income, of which you have repeatedly said here in committee that money has actually already been spent on higher benefits, higher pensions, lower growth. So now your government's doing it again. Did you raise your hand at the table last night and say that you would finally communicate honestly about the figures, rather than fooling everyone? Well, that's convenient. There will soon be budgetary control, all of which will have to be included in the tables. So that's convenient after all. Why do you use this short-term communication and turn people's minds? No one will benefit from that. Can you give the figures for the previous agreement but also for the new agreement? What are the gross costs? What are the net costs? So we can see the totality of the puzzle and we know, transparently, what the budgetary impact is. My third question concerns gas, electricity and fuel oil. When I heard about the agreement, I was wondering if it was your idea, Madam Secretary of State, to apply the VAT reduction only in the summer months, when we really should not set up heating. The government wants to give a VAT discount on gas and electricity in summer when it is not consumed, and not in winter when consumption is high. That is, of course, interesting for the budget. The fact that there is only a VAT reduction in the summer is good news for you, as Secretary of State for the Budget, but it is incomprehensible for people to get a discount at a time when the heating is not on. Who made that proposal? Who makes it up to compensate for the high energy consumption in winter with a VAT discount in the months when heating should not be turned on? Was that your proposal to reduce the budgetary impact? Whose proposal is that coming from? I would also like to know whether any Dutch-speaking minister will raise his hand at any given time and ask what the government is deciding. It is very clear that the French-speaking ministers have raised their hands on the Minister Dermagne has communicated with three tweets and in all three states the word fuel oil. He talks about a fuel oil fund and a fuel oil cheque worth EUR 200. We all know very well why he is communicating about fuel oil and why that decision was made. This is because in Wallonia 59 percent of families are still heated on the basis of fuel oil, while in Flanders it is only 29 percent. So the French-speaking ministers raised their hands. Did the Dutch-speaking ministers not do so last night to point out the imbalance in price increases? For the sake of clarity, people who heat with fuel oil deserve to be compensated, but the price increases for fuel oil are more than compensated by the cheque on the basis of the simulations we see, while the people who heat with gas do not receive such compensation at all in the same order and much less. I assume that you simulated that and that you know those figures. Anyway, on the social media, everyone knew those numbers in five minutes, so you'll know them too. My fourth series of questions is about petrol and diesel at the pump. I would like to know who put the brakes on that. Minister Van Peteghem had, according to your government's custom, communicated in the press saying that the fees should be reduced to the European minimum. On a 60 liter tank turn this means a discount of 17.50 euros. However, it has only become a discount of 10 euros. So Minister Van Peteghem was clearly not followed. He tried to make a point, but someone was on the brakes. Madam Secretary of State, who blocked that off? Who made that allowance much smaller? Your impact on the file of my next question is smaller, but in general I can only ask you the question. Will everything be legally completed in time? Previous measures, including the reduction of VAT on electricity, were decided on 1 February and did not enter into force until 1 March, following the opinion of the Council of State, published in the Belgian Official Journal and the advice of the Budget Services. So it took a month. Now the government states that this new package will be ready in two weeks' time. During the previous whole process, only two days were needed specifically for the budgetary opinion. An agreement was reached on 1 February and the budget opinion was available on 3 February. The delay is clearly not with you. I assume that last night was also discussed whether all this legislation is going to get around on time. Some suppliers report in the media this morning that it is not feasible to arrange this before April. Can you provide more information on this? With my last question, I repeat a call that I made to you last week, and indeed also to the Minister of Finance. The style of the government is miniature. There's a mini-energy chord and a mini-tax shift. After a while, the government finds that it needs to do more, that it needs to make it a maxi, that additional efforts are needed. This applies to all kinds of matters on which the government decides, albeit all on the expenditure side. There is another mini-agreement, namely the mini-work deal, which has been described by experts and also by some government members. Well, did no one ask the question at the nuclear cabinet meeting last night, and I hope you will respond positively how we will continue to finance all this? The logic must be that every additional expenditure must be accompanied by an additional effort in the field of activation measures, so that our economy and purchasing power are strengthened and the financing of our social security is guaranteed. However, we do not see that. We only see expenditure to meet the citizens at the exploding prices, rightly so, but in no way is there any concern to secure the financing of our social model. Is there no one at the government table who would point out to Minister Dermagne that a fuel oil fund is positive, but that he should also ensure that all the measures are financed and ask him when he will finally come up with proper activation measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, part of the energy deal was incorporated into the second budget adjustment. Last night, the nuclear cabinet decided on a whole series of new measures, including the reduction of VAT on gas to 6%, which we have been calling for for a long time. This important measure, which was explained this morning, will be reviewed in September. There is also the concession for fuel oil, which is also an important source of energy and whose increased cost has an impact on purchasing power. In Limburg, for example, one household in three heats up with fuel oil. This is an important aspect for some single people, families and those who benefit from the social rate. I can only welcome these measures in the second package. This, of course, raises the question of funding. I refer to your detailed opinion paper in Knack in which you stated that rising energy prices net result in a negative impact on the budget. You referred to the models of the National Bank which show that government, such as citizens and businesses, is also suffering from increased energy prices. Could you explain the models and their effects a little more? Given the current international situation, energy prices are expected to remain high for a long time to come. What effect would it have on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u4	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, last night an agreement was reached in Kern. The questions I asked you are directly related to this, since I was asking you about the evolution of VAT revenues following the explosion of energy prices. It is recalled that you said that an increase in energy prices had no impact on the budget or even a negative impact on the budget. That is a statement which I still think is quite bold of you! So I asked you these questions. Madam Secretary of State, for each of the VAT amounts of 2022 and 2021, can you detail VAT on electricity, gas, oil and fuel? Can you also give us information on the impact of the price increases observed since September-October last year? Compared to last night's government deal, one can still wonder why VAT is not at 6% permanently on the essential product of energy. Without even mentioning the reason why the government is lowering taxes during the summer. But here it is, it's a basic product. Why is 6 % VAT not permanent? Why are other measures in Kern so limited? For example, why a reduction in fuel excises of only 17.5 cents, while excise duties still amount to 60 cents per litre. Even if we accept the European diktat which governs excise duties, it is still well beyond 17 cents. We are told that the cost of the measures decided yesterday would be 1.3 billion, but that the bulk – more than 1 billion – would be offset by the additional tax revenues. Do you confirm that? There is an additional 1.08 billion revenue. Do you confirm this amount? The other day, you claimed that the impact would be negative or neutral for the state. There is also the fact that this does not take into account all the additional VAT collected by the government in 2021, since the price increase did not date back to 2022. There is a way to get revenue at the state level, but there is also a way to get revenue at the level of the giga profits that are being made, for the time being, by the multinationals of energy. If we look at oil companies, for example, today, it is an avalanche of billions of euros. Aramco: 50 billion profits; ExxonMobil: 21 billion; Shell: 18 billion; TotalEnergy: 14 billion; Chevron: 14 billion; BP: 7 billion. It's really an avalanche of profits. Don't you think that we should also use these over-profits and make use of these energy multinationals – I could also refer to Engie at the level of electricity – to finance tax reduction measures that should allow users to have liveable prices because, for now, people can't and are really strangled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I have not been in politics very long, but politics is seeking a balance between the short and long term. The short term is responding to current events and is strongly subject to the emotions of the day. The long term is the search for structural solutions. That is also the responsibility of the present and future generations. I'm glad the government can decide and decide. Sometimes it takes a little more time, but then the decisions get better. I hear the members here. It's nice to always be so much smarter after the facts. However, price formation is a difficult and technical dossier. That is why we have this afternoon a joint hearing of the Finance Committee with the Energy Committee in order to gain more insight. After all, I cannot ignore the fact that, with great modesty, I should like to point out to all the parties who have been in the government over the past 20 years that the impact of our policies has not produced the desired results. There are, of course, a number of geopolitical realities that could not be predicted. However, we have probably also done a lot of wishful thinking. We underestimated the geopolitical risks. We have underestimated market forces when supply is structurally reduced in the context of an energy transition. We probably also underestimated the price of that energy transition. In addition to short-term measures, which are justified but which will also have a net budgetary cost, we must tackle the problems on the ground. We're in some kind of vicious circle. We subsidise energy producers. We subsidise citizens, to isolate them. However, we are faced with very high prices, which we, in turn, correct by partial intervention by the government in end-user prices, which in turn means a tax. I must confess that I am pleased that you have taken temporary measures. After all, nothing is more difficult than predicting the future. It is also to act with the knowledge of the day and at the time of the day. It is very nice to do boutades, such as the statement that VAT will be reduced in the summer. I also see many inconsistencies with a number of Members who, on the one hand, suggest that taxes should be reduced and, on the other hand, still dare to talk about budgetary discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u6	You chose a difficult path, Madam Secretary of State, and I would nevertheless like to express my appreciation for the work you are doing in this seven-party coalition. I will confine my question to the following: how will you further monitor the price evolution? I suspect that today we have taken note of Part One, which is more short-term. I look forward to the decisions, which the Minister of Energy also announced, on Part 2, to ensure that supply and demand return to balance, because that is the only way to ensure that reasonable prices are restored, with reasonable profit margins for those who make the right investments in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this is indeed an important session. The agreement reached last night by the government is important. I understand that the opposition, which is normal on the part of the Commission, believes that the measures taken are too short in duration, too weak, and too late. All these criticisms are partly understandable. But, honestly, as far as I am concerned, I welcome the fact that this government has been able to take urgent social measures for our fellow citizens who have been seeing energy prices rise for several weeks and who are increasingly in distress. I'm thinking of people who are precarised, but not just them. There are also the so-called middle-class people who are active, are not in precarious condition and are now at risk of falling into it. As an environmentalist, given my party's vision of society, this could not be allowed. The agreement that took place last night, although it should have already taken place several weeks ago, is proof that this government has the capacity to make strong decisions. This is a question of more than EUR 1.3 billion, in particular through the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity. I will not go back to all the measures that have been taken, such as the fuel check or the reduction in excise duties on diesel. I would like to highlight the decisions that have been taken with regard to SNCB. In fact, EUR 13 million has been earmarked. People who needed to fill their tanks were actually to be helped to get to work and to move around. There was an urgent need for this, and it was answered. But there was also a need to encourage those who no longer have this opportunity and who will have to take regional public transport or train more often tomorrow. I'm thinking of STIB, TEC and De Lijn. This measure is, for us, also fundamental. In addition, I should like to mention the enlargement of the social tariff. I would like to say here to those who say that nothing has been done, that we have waited, that this one, which concerns two million Belgians, one million households which are the most disadvantaged, exists since September last year. It must not be said, therefore, that nothing has been done. That's not true! The most fragile of our society have been protected since September last year. For my part, I am pleased that they have been the focus of the government's attention as a matter of priority. We extend this social tariff until September, which is a fundamental protection measure for the most disadvantaged. This is for us a great victory led by the Minister of Energy with the Minister of Finance and certainly you, Madam Secretary of State. It is not time to dispute the laurels, but to attribute them to the whole government. I wanted to highlight two more important elements. As some colleagues have said, we have responded to the social emergency. A second phase of decision-making will now begin in relation to a more structural energy future: investing in energy independence when we see our dependence on a country like Russia, whether in terms of uranium, 30% of which comes from that country, oil (40%), or gas (10%). At European level, we remain dependent. We must therefore be able to invest in our energy independence. For us environmentalists, it's not a surprise. There is a need to invest heavily in renewable energy. This is the phase of discussion that is now beginning at the government level. For us, it is really essential to have even greater investments in everything that is air, water, sun, waste, biomass, geothermal. It is total independence because the wind and the sun or geothermal are all to all. Other discussions will of course take place in relation to the various energy plans A or B, but I am not going to go back in detail here. These are discussions on which we will have to land very soon. We cannot afford to postpone this even in the medium term. This must be done in the very short term. Madam Secretary of State, regarding your skills, we received the tables this morning and the presentation. What will be the precise budgetary impact in relation to the decisions taken this night and also in relation to the possibilities of this second phase of energy transition that is opening up? What are the budgetary possibilities at this level too? What is planned in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate the government for taking this famous package of fundamental decisions in the interest of our people. I would like to moderate a little the enthusiasm of the previous interlocutor and point out that, indeed, and that is the least, we could not have lived without decisions being made to support the most disadvantaged populations. It was therefore necessary, as early as September, at the time when the crisis was coming, to take the strong measures linked to the social tariff. Let us remember that it took a long time before we considered that we had to help, structurally, in this crisis where we saw rising energy prices, the middle class that some of your commensals, Mr Vanden Burre, cut into the lower middle class and the upper middle class! Yesterday I had on the radio a contradictor who made this distinction and belongs to your political group. I am not on this, I am on the fact that there is indeed a very large middle class – which goes from the civil servant, to the skilled worker, the self-employed, the trader, the small and medium-sized enterprises, to the pensioner – who has for weeks had enormous difficulties supporting the frightening increase in energy bills. I therefore congratulate the government for finally making this decision, which was fundamental. We could not wait any longer, it was impossible to consider continuing to wait! Madam Secretary of State, you have participated in this great reflection and we should know what the budgetary impact of this type of decision is. This is important for the following decisions. The previous interlocutor said that the next decision cannot be delayed, and then we join. The government has identified that this decision should be made this Friday. So it's supposed to be taken this Friday. Contrary to this night's package, this decision concerns decades in our energy policy and it must be taken this Friday because we have to implement the whole framework that will enable it to be implemented in the years to come, especially beyond 2025. 2025 is not a deadline, it is rather 2026, 2027, 2030, 2035. Mr. Vanden Burre recalled, the wind and the sun belong to everyone. Unfortunately, the sun does not always shine and the wind does not always blow. Therefore, we need to provide for safe and stable means of production that allow us to have a production on our soil with a value chain, a highly qualified job that cannot be relocated, a dense production that ensures our energy independence and is low in CO2. The government will be looking at the extension of the operating time of our nuclear fleet and will need to identify the needs to ensure that our people have enough electricity for years to come. The renewable is included in this electric mix, Mr. Vanden Burre. I am therefore in favour of a renewable-nuclear mix and a long time ago. I believe that in order to be able to implement the new nuclear technologies that will be more flexible and which will be much better associated with intermittent renewables – because there is not always wind and sun – we must obviously be able to maintain on our soil a nuclear production capacity identified in relation to needs. The figure to be taken into account is therefore not limited to the two plants that are included in the government agreement, it is perhaps beyond, depending on this need, to be able in the 10, 15, 20 – and more – years to come, to ensure that our population has enough CO2-poor electricity, with the best technologies on our territory and the best professionals. This is indeed an energy plan and a sound economic plan. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, we will need your projections to imagine all this, knowing that everything that is renewable is still greedy with subsidies, that is to say in support of the consumer or the state. It will therefore also be necessary to enter into negotiations with the Engie operator or with another operator – this may change over time, as the Engie shareholdership may also change –. All of this is in your hands and needs to be assessed in order to give the government the assurance of the financial feasibility of all this huge process that is truly crucial for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u9	I would like to react quickly on two points in relation to the very important debate on the middle class. I did not saucisson the different categories of people in my speech because I think that given the urgent social priority, we must help everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u10	Yeah, but I don't blame you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u11	Compared to the middle class that you are so concerned about, and which we are also concerned about, the best protection mechanism that exists is wage indexation. In any case for this middle class who works, who is employed or who is...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u12	For the self-employed there is no wage indexation, Mr Vanden Burre! I'll call him back anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u13	No, it's true, but it's still the best protection for the majority in this middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u14	This helps, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u15	The last time there was an index jump in this country, it was under the previous MR – N-VA government. I would like to recall this because concepts are being questioned at some point in this country, such as indexing. We never called her into question. We said that there would be no index jumps with environmentalists in the government, which I am delighted about. This is still the main protection measure of the middle class also for those who are employed or civil servants. This is indeed not the case for the self-employed, but that is why other measures are needed, and that is why I also welcome the agreement this night.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u16	We agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u17	On the second point, that of energy, I am not going to go into much detail. I think the differences in the vision of the energy transition between you and us are known. I think there has already been a lot of debate – which is very good – between the proponents of a rather pro-nuclear vision and the proponents of our rather renewable energy vision. For my part, I trust the government's ability, during the 10-year transition period, to find the best energy mix. I think a compromise will have to be found, but the difference in vision between us is that we believe that the future will need to be renewable in the long term, with the goal of achieving 100% renewable by 2030 or 2050. This difference we have, it is part of political life. By the end of the week, a decision on the next ten years will have to be taken in order to have a mix that will enable us to achieve this goal of maximum renewable energy. There, I won't be any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u18	We have a habit in this committee of talking less in slogans and more about facts, Mr Vanden Burre. The President is right to make a point about the impact, indexation and the self-employed who cannot benefit from it. The prices to be paid to the pump are not included in the index. However, you refer to the index mechanism as a solution to everything. I understand that you are trying to pretend that everything is better than before, but the facts also confirm that under the previous government led by Mr Michel, i.e. the Swedish Government, purchasing power has increased, especially for low and middle incomes. Apparently, you like to spray fog on that, but the facts are what they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u19	This committee meeting falls the morning after the big decision. So we have changed our answer. Some of the questions are indeed somewhat dated, but I will give a general answer addressing the questions you have put and the questions you have asked. Questions were raised regarding the alleged increase in government revenue due to rising energy and fuel prices, the measures already taken in January and the measures that could still be taken. In the meantime, an agreement has been reached. I will also explain this question and its budgetary aspect. With regard to increased government revenue, I refer to my reply in committee on 8 March, when I explained that the increase in government revenue was estimated at EUR 813 million in January due to increased energy prices. As price expectations have increased since then, the FPS Finance calculated the additional additional revenue compared to the estimates made in January. For gas and electricity, according to their calculations, the figure is EUR 569,6 million, for fuel oil EUR 226,9 million, for petrol EUR 105,8 million and for diesel EUR 128,1 million. This therefore brings the total estimated increase in revenue compared to the amounts entered for the budget statement 2022 for gas and electricity to EUR 1,090 million and for fuel oil to EUR 309 million. The reduction in expenditure on green electricity certificates offshore wind is 177 million euros. That was from the previous package. Repartition contributions for 2022 amount to EUR 32 million, including from the previous package. For petrol, the increase in revenue is EUR 105.8 million and for diesel EUR 128.1 million. The overall impact of high energy prices on government finance will be reflected in the report of the Monitoring Committee to be published later this week. This report will be based on the economic outlook 2022-2027, as published by the Planning Bureau on 24 February 2022. I have already indicated that, according to the National Bank's models, higher energy prices from the macroeconomic point of view, the previous one was the micro-economic point of view, which has a negative impact on public finances. I based myself on the national bank's autumn forecast 2021, presented in a webinar of 17 December 2021. I am referring here to slide 21. I asked the secretariat to pass this slide on to the members of the committee. These forecasts show that, after an initial positive impact, high energy prices are indisputablely having a negative impact on public finances. The positive effect of an increase in VAT revenue is more than offset after a short period of time, as, on the one hand, civil servants' wages and replacement income increase as a result of the rapid indexation and, on the other hand, revenue from corporation tax decreases. As far as the federal government is concerned, there is also a negative effect as the amounts to the federated entities increase with the consumer price index. No one will have noticed that the situation has changed dramatically since the end of February. It is important to be able to assess both the direct impact of the war and the impact of the sanctions imposed on the Belgian economy. Hence, the government has already asked the National Bank and the Planning Bureau to make an initial analysis of the macroeconomic impact of recent events. A second set of questions includes the measures already taken by the government and their budgetary impact. These purchasing power increases are the following. Firstly, a heating premium of EUR 100 that will be offset against all residential electricity contracts. The cost of that measure was estimated at 520 million euros, taking into account the number of residential electricity contracts. Secondly, a temporary VAT reduction from 21% to 6% on electricity for 4 months. The cost of this VAT reduction was estimated at EUR 320 million in February. Thirdly, the extension of the extended social tariff in the 2nd quarter of 2022. The cost of this was estimated at 94 million euros in February. In addition, the significantly increased electricity and gas prices resulted in the cost of applying the social gas and electricity tariff in the 1st quarter of 2022 increasing to 393 million euro, i.e. 185 million euro more than initially estimated in September 2021. Together, the measures have a budgetary impact of €1.12 billion. In addition, as explained in the discussions in the context of the budget statement 2022, in the transformation of federal taxes into an excise duty, the level of that excise duty has been frozen at the level of federal levies in 2021. If federal expenditure increases, for example in the framework of the classical social tariff, the budgetary impact of this measure increases. On 14 March 2022 the Government decided to take additional measures. First, a VAT reduction on electricity from 21% to 6%, until 30 September 2022. The estimated cost is EUR 279.6 million. Secondly, a VAT reduction on natural gas and heat grids to 6%, from 1 April to 30 September 2022. The estimated cost is EUR 384 million. Thirdly, a one-off discount of EUR 200 on the invoice for anyone who heats on fuel oil, propane and butane, for a total amount of EUR 210 million, provided that it concerns the place of residence of a family. In addition, a one-off increase in the Social Fuel Oil Fund of EUR 17 million is foreseen. Fourthly, the extension of the extended social tariff until the 3rd quarter of 2022. Its cost is estimated at EUR 94.5 million. Fifthly, the reduction of special excise duties on petrol and diesel by 17 cents or 0,175 euros per litre, including VAT, until 30 September 2022. A cliquet system is used, which provides for the re-elevation of excise duties if the maximum price falls below EUR 1.7 per litre. Its cost is estimated at 288 million euros. Sixth, a one-off financing of SNCB by EUR 13 million so that the planned tariff increase should not take place. Finally, temporary unemployment in the period from 1 April 2022 to 30 June 2022 with the same modalities as temporary unemployment introduced during corona for companies affected by the current crisis with Ukraine. Its cost is estimated at EUR 25.3 million. The total cost of this package is EUR 1.33 billion. All other technical questions and questions about timing, feasibility and feasibility should be addressed to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy. So much for my answer. I would like to add one more thing. In my previous life, I was a negotiator. I have also taken a lot of training and training. I have some experience in that. If there is one thing one does not do, it is to say who raised his finger during a negotiation. That's not loyal. This will certainly not benefit future negotiations. So I will not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, if we can draw a conclusion from the questions and answers, it is that we should meet more regularly in our committee on such matters, otherwise everything will be thrown into a pile as it is now. I'd like to respond to what I've heard here and to what was decided last night. It is a collection of very limited and, above all, short-term measures. The government is moving from energy agreement to energy agreement, from energy deal to energy deal. In this way, it will not come up with a structural and sustainable solution to the energy crisis, a crisis which, unlike the government's half-hearted measures, will not quickly disappear. Your temporary measures will have disappeared faster than the crisis in the energy market. As regards the social tariff, for example, KU Leuven's research showed last Monday that the middle class is most affected by higher energy prices. I didn't hear you talk about the middle class. The lower incomes are rightly compensated by the social rate, but families who do not qualify for the social rate are also groaning under the high prices and find in the measures only a handout. As regards the reduction of VAT on gas, as I said, all studies show that temporary VAT reductions, as your government does, ultimately lead to permanent price increases. We regret that the VAT reduction on electricity and gas is not a permanent reduction. The VAT reduction will only start in April at the earliest, if it succeeds for most energy suppliers, when the coldest months are over and ends in September, when winter is back on its doorstep. That is not the stable policy that the citizens now expect and need. It also creates additional uncertainty. So it's getting scared waiting for a lot of families to bring in the next winter. There is no clarity about this today. On the other hand, it is not about the promised smart VAT reduction. That so-called smart VAT reduction by Minister of Finance Van Peteghem and Minister Tinne Van der Straeten would be worked out by 1 March, but today there is no trace of it. I haven't heard anything about that. It is clear to the Flemish interest that all unnecessary charges in electricity and gas bills must be removed. Then I come to the excise duties on diesel and petrol. A 60 litre tank costs 125 euros today. The maximum price is currently 2.08 euros. That gives 125 euros for a full tank. The government gives a 10 euro discount on this. Initially, up to 29 cents discount was promised. Eventually you landed at 17.5%. This is, of course, far from sufficient to meet the sharp rise in prices for citizens and businesses. The measure is also not permanent. The catch here is, of course, that from 1.70 euros, not the reverse cliquet system, but the real cliquet system will come into operation again. It is therefore the government's manifest and perfidious intention to gradually raise and raise the rates of excise duty on the state treasury at today's level. In the end, we will end up again where we started, namely that the car is the milk cow of the state treasury. That is where we started at the beginning of this week, and that is where we will end up again by reintroducing the cliquet system. As far as fuel oil is concerned, a cheque of EUR 200 will not be enough to cover the fuel oil bill of households, which see their fuel oil bill rise by many hundreds of euros a month. In addition, cheques create an additional administrative burden. It was therefore preferable to intervene directly on the price. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, as far as your area is concerned, the budget is referred to as EUR 1.3 billion. It would ultimately cost 200 million euros. Of course, you're not covering up an important part of the extra revenue. I got the figures from the Minister of Finance. For the corona crisis, the revenue of all energy products for the State Treasury amounted to EUR 31 billion. In 2021, revenues increased to EUR 33 billion under the influence of rising prices in the second half of 2021. So there were already more revenues of EUR 2 billion last year. We do not yet agree on the additional revenue generated by the further price increases caused by the Ukraine crisis. We do not yet have these figures, but it is, of course, within the expectations that it will also be about billions of euros. You are very brief about compensation and the increase in income. Many parties also made the promise that all additional revenues would be returned to the population. As far as we are concerned, this promise, with the figures we have now, is absolutely not being kept. Thank you for your answers and I look forward to continuing discussions with the government on these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u21	I would like to take a brief look at a number of points raised and replicated in response to the State Secretary's reply. First of all, it is always interesting to see what the dynamics are within a government team that comes to agreements. You do not find it loyal to reveal how the negotiations have been conducted. I understand, of course, why you decide not to give this transparency. But you can't blame the opposition for trying . Maybe we should have the debate on how loyal it is to fill newspaper articles before the negotiations by Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Minister-by-Office, in order to be in the spotlight. By the way, on the basis of pre-communications and today's social media, we can find out pretty well what happened at the table. Secondly, I thank you for using the word total cost. You have listed the budgets for the energy packages that have already been decided and you have clearly used the term total cost for this. It is important to realise that the figures can be conjured up as much as one wants, but that in the end only one thing counts for the budget, namely the total cost. Thank you for that. We look forward to the report of the Monitoring Committee which will come at the end of this week and which promises to be firm. For the energy packages, we already have EUR 2.4 billion of EUR 1.1 billion plus EUR 1.3 billion. In addition, two budgetary adjustments have already been made. Part of this is the processing of energy packages, but there are many billions of euros already on top of a budget that was already quite dark red and it is only the month of March. Thirdly, Madam Secretary of State, you state that you will not say who fought at the table for the EUR 200 fuel oil cheque. There are indeed many people in Flanders who heat their homes with fuel oil, Mr Matheï, also in West Flanders, as in Limburg. I think it is only logical that measures should be taken, and I also think it is only logical that there should be more heating with fuel oil in Wallonia, for the sake of clarity. That's just the simple definition of a geographical context. It is easier to have gas connections in Flanders, in densely populated areas, while in Wallonia it is more difficult geographically. That is not the discussion, but the discussion is whether everyone is treated equally in support. [[There is no other way to say that this is not the case.]] People who heat with fuel oil will receive a cheque of 200 euros, people who heat on gas will receive a concession of about 90 euros. That is a corresponding difference: one gets 200 euros, the other gets about 90 euros. A little wishy-washy can be done about that, but actually it's just not fair. I want to make that point. I have already replied to what Mr Vanden Burre said about the VAT reduction. My final point concerns fundamental structural solutions. A package of measures has now been adopted, whereby short-term allowances will reduce invoices, but no structural political decisions have been taken. An atmosphere is now being created, including by Mr Leysen, as if a structural solution lies in the decision on the nuclear power plant dossier. This is, of course, a fundamental issue for energy supply, but, in budgetary terms, that is obviously not a solution. On the contrary, the extension of the lifetime of nuclear power plants will only increase the invoices for you as Secretary of State, at least in the multiannual budget. If we really want to check whether everything remains affordable, then we will have to act to restore balance, but you have not answered that question. To that end, I appeal once again. I hope that Mr Leysen can confirm that he agrees with that logic. In the past he was also on the line that the logic of the shift should be followed. If there is more investment and therefore more expenditure, then there is also a need to work towards more structural funding of our social security, to keep our social model affordable, which means that more people need to work. The nuclear power stations can or cannot remain open any longer, I hope, but that is not the solution to this problem. The solution is more people at work. I hope that someone noticed that yesterday at the government table. Minister Dermagne needs to realize that he needs to do his homework again. We'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answers and for the overview of budgetary effects. An additional 1.3 billion is being invested through various measures covering different layers of the population and thus being very important in reducing the price increase, both on the pump and on the energy bill. When I hear some, it's like it's all just peanuts, but 1.3 billion isn't nothing. An evaluation will follow in September to see what needs to or can be done. I think this is important. It is also important that these matters are supported with credibility. In this respect, we welcome the reference to studies carried out by the National Bank. Together with you, we look forward to the monitoring committee's report to see how the current situation will evolve in the coming months, both in terms of energy and in terms of all other developments. After all, that is something that we certainly need to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, first of all I will talk about the budgetary impact on energy prices. You come back with the same stories as at a previous meeting, saying that the indexing of public servants' salaries must be taken into account. However, you ignore that of private wages, which affects professional prepayments and taxes levied on these wages. You repeat yourself each time by neglecting this aspect, although it is the post at the highest volume. It's quite incomprehensible, considering your duties. These measures – or measures – decided by the government last night seem to me both late, insufficient and temporary. It is incredible that, in the face of rising energy prices, which have been present since September-October, it took so long to obtain first temporary interventions on VAT on electricity. We were told then that it was impossible to reduce VAT on gas, because this would create discrimination against fuel oil users. Today, we realize that the situation has had to become more than catastrophic in order to switch to 6% on gas – but again, it is temporary. Similarly, the excise duty file is completely incomprehensible. The price of fuel is reduced by 0.175 euro, while the price of fuel is reduced to 67 cents per litre. The maximum option, of course, does not comply with European rules, but in a crisis and emergency situation, we can ignore them. The European Union itself does so under such circumstances. And then, even by respecting them, we could reduce the excise duty by 29 cents. The impact would be different. It would still have a quite different impact. The fact that we waited and now apply a click on the huge prices we know is also amazing! Remember that the reverse ratchet, when it was applied in 2005, 2006 and 2008, had been applied on the basis of a price of 1.50 euro. Again in November of last year, the Minister of Finance said: "I want to apply the ratchet above 1.70 euros". Now we're in total reverse logic. It is said that when we reach 1.70 again, we will re-increase the excise duty by a positive ratchet. This is crazy. This government really makes fun of the people! I would also like to remind Mr Vanden Burre, who says "fortunately that wages are indexed", that fuels are not included in the health index used to index wages. He doesn't understand the fuel, so people who are forced to work with their car, who don't get away with it anymore, say, "How am I going to do it? I have to go to work to make money, but I lose money when I go to work, because of the price." Their wages will not be indexed. Let's go get the money where it is, that is, in the state coffers, with all the additional revenues that have been generated since October 2021, but also, as I said, let's consider something else! Madam Secretary of State, you are in charge of the budget. You must limit spending when possible and also find revenue. As far as revenue is concerned, it is still not normal for the population to suffer so badly today, and for energy multinationals to gain record profits. TotalEnergies in France, which is active in both oil and electricity, has achieved the greatest benefit in France's history. But they are also strongly present in Belgium. If you go to Antwerp or Feluy, you can see it. They're here and not in France. This is where they produce and refine. So there's a way to get money. So why not go and get him where he is by taxing overprofits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u24	As I am being questioned by both the PTB and the N-VA on indexing, I will respond quickly. I was talking about a mechanism to protect the middle class from indexation. I know how the index is composed. I'm just saying that at some point, it's also a mechanism that allows middle-class employees and public servants to see their purchasing power in part adapted to rising prices. [[(...):...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u25	No, but it's still a protection mechanism at the end of the month. It is certainly not enough, and that is why we are taking action this night, particularly on fuels. It remains a simple mechanism. Does the PTB want an end to indexing? I don't understand. I am defending a protection mechanism here. I know the fuel isn't in the index. At the end of the month, however, employees saw a difference in their pay slips in terms of adjusting their purchasing power. That's what I mean. For our part, we will continue to fight for the maintenance of this indexation, which is not an isolated solution and which must intervene in a set of solutions, but what I want to say in my speech is that others, in the past, have considered it possible to make index jumps when we believe that this is not a solution and that this indexation remains an important measure, among others, of the protection of the middle class. That's what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u26	Madam President, may I conclude that Mr Vanden Burre is not in favour of integrating fuels into wage indexation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u27	There's nothing to do, Mr. Van Hees...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u28	So I conclude that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u29	Everyone draws the conclusions that they feel should be drawn. We can conclude this first topical debate because I believe that everyone has been able to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u30	Madam President, German interest rates at ten years, the euro area reference, have risen above zero since 2019 for the first time since the beginning of January. Belgian interest rates at ten years have also increased during the first days of this year and are therefore at the highest level since March 2020. What is the impact on the budget? The newspaper De Tijd writes that interest charges in 2022 will already be 30 million euros higher than in the budget. In the meantime, we're March. Can you update that amount? I would like to talk not only about the increase in ten-year interest rates, but also about the increased public debt The euro countries have more and more sovereign debt, more than ever, due to the corona debt crisis. In addition to Belgium, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain, France and Cyprus also have a State debt of more than 100 % of GDP. These sovereign debts will have to be refinanced in the future. In the event of rising interest rates, higher interest charges will weigh heavily on the budgets. I have a number of questions about that, Madam Secretary of State. The 2022 budget included the sensitivity analysis, which should measure the sensitivity of Belgian budgets to changes in interest rates. The Debt Agency has calculated that an increase in interest rate of 1% could lead to an increase of EUR 820 million for the joint government for 2022. Madam Secretary of State, I don't care about a case. In an interview in De Tijd you mentioned the amount of 620 million euros on a question about interest rate increases. Of course, that's only for entity I. Mr Dermine replaced you in plenary when I asked a question. At that time, I noted that, depending on how it suits itself, the government quotes figures from the joint government or from entity I, sometimes in the same article. As Secretary of State for the Budget, you would be pleased to quote the real figures and the real impact. An interest rate increase of one percentage point can generate almost 1 billion euros in additional costs for the joint government. That was, of course, the correct figure that should have appeared in Time. Are the figures still up to date? Is the EUR 820 million still up to date? Or do you now have more recent figures? In 2009, the European sovereign debt crisis or euro crisis broke loose, after Greece threatened to be unable to finance its debts independently. The public debt is even higher today than it was then. Moreover, we are once again faced with large debts combined with rising interest rates. Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, how do you estimate the risk of a new euro crisis? The financial markets are expecting two increases in interest rates this year. Do you expect the ECB's policy rate and long-term interest rates to increase further? If so, how many? In that climate, do you consider an accelerated deleveraging of entity 1 and the joint government desirable? What plans do you have on debt disposal? What degree of debt do you want to achieve for entity 1 and the joint government by 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, at the beginning of this year it was said that rising inflation was a temporary phenomenon. In the meantime, we know better. For several months in a row, inflation rates have exceeded the expectations of analysts. The FED was due to discuss an interest rate increase tomorrow. The ECB has been surprised by saying that it wants to accelerate its bond purchases. These elements will certainly have an impact not only on the economy but also on the budget. The interest rate, which was still negative last year, was 0.75 % when I asked my question, while it was 0.82%. Everything indicates it's going to rise. To what extent have you made a sensitivity analysis if inflation continues to increase in the federal budget? How do you point out to your colleagues, who regularly come up with a wish list of additional expenditures, that the state treasury is not inexhaustible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u32	Making debts is not a problem, we should not panic, it is not so bad, we read that in the media, among other things, from Professor De Grauwe, even though I was surprised at his plea this morning to eliminate deficits with tax increases. Making debts, apparently, is a bit of a problem. Of course it is. This country is over-indebted. That's not a good thing. I have asked you for and received a number of figures on this matter. Compared to what we had entered in this year's budget, the impact of interest rates on rising debt amounts to additional costs of EUR 37 million. From October onwards, we will have to pay more than EUR 660 million in interest on the huge debt. Of course, that's a huge problem. In the debate, everything is constantly referred to as an investment, just now again. Of course, the entire support under the electricity file is an expenditure, but not an investment. In this area too, the debate could be conducted a little more purer. Do you acknowledge that we have an effective problem? I'm assuming so. I hate to say I told you so . What parameters do you consider? Soon we will be discussing the budget statement. How temporarily do you estimate inflation? What impact do you estimate for interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u33	Madam President, there were several questions about the impact of rising interest rates on public expenditure. A limited revaluation of the Belgian Debt Agency with the forward rates dated 13 January shows that the interest charges borne by the Treasury for 2022 were already estimated at around 37 million euros higher than in the initial budget, as you mentioned. The estimate of 13 January was based on forward rates in force at that time: for example, for a period of 10 years it was 0.33 % on average. An average of 0.05 % for the ten-year interest rate was still taken into account when drawing up the initial budget. Since the estimate of 13 January, ten-year interest rates have continued to rise gradually. In the meantime, interest rates are indeed much higher. For a precise revaluation, account must be taken of more than just the average interest rate at 10 years, such as the exact maturity dates, the interest rates at other dates, the amounts to be financed, the chosen time limits for financing, etc. The Monitoring Committee's report is expected in March, which will include an update of the forecasts of interest charges. It is more than likely that the interest charges for the federal government will be higher than previously estimated and that the reduction in interest charges will also be brought to an end on the basis of the current interest rate expectations. For the purpose of drawing up the initial budget, the Federal Debt Agency calculated the additional costs of a linear increase in the interest rate curve of 100 basis points from October 2021 on the interest charges for entity I at EUR 0,66 billion or 13% of gross domestic product for entity I for 2022. The impact continues in the following years. The figures were included in the general explanatory memorandum to the budget. These calculations are also currently being updated in the context of the preparation of the Monitoring Committee note and also republished in the general explanatory memorandum. I do not expect the sensitivity analysis itself to change dramatically in terms of figures, which, of course, cannot be said of the probability that we will face sensitive interest rate increases. There were questions about my expectations regarding the number of interest rate increases that the European Central Bank is going to make this year, but I am not going to venture on too big predictions. I am relying on the expectations of specialized institutions in the market itself. All recently published macroeconomic forecasts from, among others, the Federal Planning Office and the European Commission assume that there will be an increase in interest levels in the coming years. That seems reasonable to me. These estimates were completed before the flare-up of the military conflict in Ukraine. Since my appointment as Secretary of State, I have continued to stress that once the urgency of the corona crisis has been over, the impact of the necessary measures can be extinguished, that stabilisation is necessary and that gradually reducing the level of debt is and will be an important guide for budgetary policy. I note that the European Commission has the same emphasis in its recently published Communication on Fiscal Guidance for 2023. However, we are living today, to be said, in very uncertain times. First of all, there is the innumerable human suffering associated with a military conflict. There is the uncertain geopolitical situation. The conflict in Ukraine will also have an impact on our economy. The impact of this is difficult to assess today and will also depend on the evolution of the conflict. Therefore, I will not be guilty of daring predictions or doomsday scenarios, but the uncertainty makes it necessary to monitor economic and financial developments closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, I can only say that you are not giving new figures today and are returning the January figures. This week, as you say, we expect new figures from the Monitoring Committee, but that means that we have to wait for new figures every quarter. In these times it can all happen quite quickly. Remember the euro crisis of about ten years ago: at that time it was also necessary to follow up on the situation. From a precautionary principle, it is appropriate not to sail blind for months, as you are doing now, but to draw the situation towards you and to follow it very closely. A monthly evaluation of the figures is appropriate. Let's hope it doesn't happen, but if another crisis breaks out, we can get into trouble very quickly, especially in a country like Belgium with its large public debt. Especially now that interest increases are ahead, it seems to me appropriate to monitor the situation not on a quarterly basis, but on a monthly basis. Then we can react more quickly to a number of issues. I look forward to asking you questions next time and then getting detailed figures on a monthly basis, so that we can follow the situation closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the information. We will undoubtedly continue to follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u36	I'm abstaining from a reply. We still have about 17 questions, so I will be referring to the written documents. So we can get as much information as we can today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I apologize for the somewhat dated question. It dates from 30 November 2021. Unfortunately, we didn't have the opportunity to speak earlier. My question concerns the levy on plastic packaging waste. In the context of NextGenerationEu, each EU Member State should pay a contribution from 1 January 2021 for non-recycled packaging waste from plastics. The contribution is part of the decision on the European Commission's own resources, which is not insignificant. All Member States have ratified that decision, including Belgium. At the beginning of September, you sent a letter to the Regions with a view to concluding a cooperation agreement on the plastic contribution. In that draft, the funding of the contribution estimated at some EUR 160 million is fully charged to the Regions. However, the three Regions replied to you in a joint letter asking questions about the fact that the contribution has to be paid in full by the Regions. They believe that the main purpose of the contribution is to finance the functioning of the EU. They also say that European contributions are always charged to the federal government. Moreover, they write that the federal government would indeed have the power to introduce a tax on non-recycled plastic waste if it so wishes. I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, what is the government's position on the joint position by the Regions? Do you agree with the arguments they are raising? Secondly, in their letter, the Regions call for joint consultation on the division of competences on the European contribution. Did you go into that? If so, is there any further consultation planned? Thirdly, the Court of Auditors points out that it is not excluded that the funding of the contribution should be made by the federal government as there is no agreement with the Regions. However, no amount was entered in the budget for this purpose. Can you tell me why this didn't happen? Fourthly, the Regions indicate that the federal government can freely decide how it finances the contribution, namely from the general budget, through a new federal levy or by amending the existing packaging levy, which raises more than EUR 300 million annually. Which slopes do you prefer? Can you rule out a new federal tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u38	Mr Raskin, the government maintains its initial position that this is a contribution related to non-recycled plastic packaging waste. It is therefore part of the waste management policy, a regional competence. On 6 December 2021, consultations were held with the Regions. During the consultations, it was asked to identify the positions and to formulate pistes in order to reach a compromise. The Region has been asked to submit a written position on the budgetary and power allocation by 15 January 2022 at the latest and to make a compromise proposal as far as possible. No amount was entered in the budget as the Government considers that it is up to the Regions to finance the plastic contribution. For your fourth question, therefore, I refer to the first two points. The financing of the plastic contribution will need to be negotiated with the regions. Finally, I can tell you that I will meet my colleagues in that context on Thursday 17 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u39	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It looks a bit like a stalemate. The file has been dragging on for a long time because the first IKWs on the subject date back to February 2021, if I am well informed. In the meantime, there's been a meeting. Once again, you clearly state that you stand by your point of view. It will therefore have to be paid by the Regions. No one follows you, however. So you're all alone. Nor can you say that it is once again Mrs Demir and Flanders who are bothering, and Wallonia and Brussels are also involved. The signature of your party colleague, Mr Gatz, is under the letter, which you are wrong about. The letter states that it is a question of funding the operation of the European Union and that it is therefore charged to the federal government. The question of whether the money comes from the general budget is not answered. You're pushing the issue out for yourself. The question of whether there will be a new levy is not even answered in the negative, although I am not surprised by Vivaldi or even by Open Vld. You do not even answer that you will use the EUR 300 million that the existing packaging levy will pay for Europe. So you're not saying anything. However, new consultations are planned. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u40	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u41	Mr Vermeersch, it goes without saying that this is not the expected result and that the Federal Accountant service, together with all those involved, such as the accounting departments of the FPS and the institutions, will have to work in the coming years to improve reporting. However, this statement is in line with statements made by the Court of Auditors on the federated entities. The annual accounts of the Flemish Community were also the subject of a memorable statement. The Court of Auditors expressed an opinion with reservations in the implementation of the Flemish government's budget and gave a statement without reservation to the ESA account. However, only one judgment is expected and the Court of Auditors does not make that distinction in its assessment. The general accounts of the Walloon Region and the French Community have received a disapproval. The Court of Auditors also refrained from expressing an opinion on the overall 2020 accounts of the regional entity in the Brussels-Capital Region. There are no direct legal or financial consequences for the Court of Auditors' abstention, although, of course, the problems mentioned must be resolved. I now turn to the actions that will be taken to this end. First, it should be noted that the consolidated accounts of the federal government contain not only the general government account, but also all other central government entities classified as § 13, paragraph 11, central government with the exception of public social security institutions. The consolidated account has only to be drawn up since 2018, so it is not illogical for the accountability annex to be improved. In the introduction to your question you mention a few points of concern, of which I will now discuss the most important. The strict legal timing for the presentation of the accounts of the 88 institutions ensures that, despite the great efforts of the Federal Accountant Service's team reporting, the provision of a user-friendly e-WMC program and the possibility of imposing late presentation fines, there will always be entities that fail to submit their accounts in good time. The causes may be many, staff turnover or absences due to illness, reorganisations, the complexity of the institution's account, such as with Enabel and BIO Invest, which have to consolidate business lines from abroad themselves. Allow me to say that this has only a marginal effect in the overallity of the figures. The transactions of the FPS and the PPS constitute the vast majority of the consolidated account. In the annexes to Part Four of the 178th Commentary Book, the Court of Auditors gives an overview of the main deviations in the annual accounts. This list shall specify the points on the basis of which the Court of Auditors has abstained. A solution to some of these problems has been developed in the meantime and work is being carried out to book the solution in the 2021 financial year, not taking into account the final determination of the autonomy factor, incorrect booking of transfers under the Special Financing Act, incorrect booking of interest rate swaps in respect of some derived products, etc. The adjustment of the stocks and fixed assets of the Defence Department was also made with the distinction between serialized and non-rationalised stock and the implementation of the concepts of accounting and logistics stock. As a result, the main spare parts are included in the general accounts with fixed assets and no longer with stocks. Other problems take more time and the 2021 account will still not contain sufficient information on these issues. Two main elements are tax revenue and provisions. Much work has already been done in a working group headed by the FPS Finance and in which the Court of Auditors and the FOD BOSA are also represented. Here, too, a major step forward will be taken in 2022. The largest amount mentioned by the Court of Auditors concerns the corrections for facilities and relates mainly to the clean-up and decommissioning of nuclear installations, where we await the spending review 2022 decided by the Council of Ministers of 10 November 2021. For the nuclear passive of Belgoprocesses, IRE and SCK, a new assessment of the current and future passive will be made, after which the booking will be carried out. In your question, you refer to the missing staff costs. It should be clarified that no booking is indeed made for the unrecorded holidays, as we wait for all FPS to use PersoPoint's new pay engine. This will allow us to include this obligation clearly in the accounts. The consolidation rule applied by the Federal Accountant service is clarified in the accounting annexes to the consolidated financial statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u42	The Court of Auditors has made a number of comments on the method and practical application. These comments will be evaluated by the Federal Accountant and certain corrections will be implemented as early as 2021. As you can see, I have given some concrete action points that will be addressed in the short term, but there are also a number of more complex problems that will take more time to resolve. Together with the administration, we are therefore working on a concrete roadmap to resolve the various comments made by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the detailed answer. We have already had a lot of debates on the accounting of the State of Israel. My question is already a bit dated in committee and in plenary. That was right, because the situation of the accounts, which is the final part of the entire budgetary exercise, is extremely serious. The Court of Auditors was devastating about the federal government's financial statements and knows that there is a lack of accounting knowledge. That was literally what it said. In short, the federal government's financial statements are a complete mess, no matter how they run it or turn it around. There was an action plan called Clarinval, which I've already questioned you about. You are now coming up with an action plan - De Bleeker, which I have already heard a number of fragments of, but I have not yet seen it. I do not know when you will share it with Parliament. When can we get our hands on your concrete action plan to deal with the federal government's financial statements? When will it be presented to Parliament and to the public? We do not want us to hear the same good intentions that we have heard this year and last year when presenting the Federal Government's annual accounts and the Court of Auditors' opinion on this matter at the beginning of next year. We drag our year after year to good intentions, but ultimately the situation does not change fundamentally. That is my appeal: finally bring your plan to Parliament. Put it on paper so you can take concrete measures. Then we can work together to improve the quality of the accounts. I hear in your reply that you already have all the figures on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. I hope you have followed current events: there are more and more votes to keep not just two nuclear reactors open for longer, but a lot more. Perhaps we should wait a little while to calculate all this. Who knows what the future will bring. We may be forced to keep more than two reactors open. Our party is in favour of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u44	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question. Madam Secretary of State, perhaps you could update the answer somewhat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u45	Inflation prospects are evolving rapidly. So it's important to follow them up. As every year, the budgetconclave begins with a note from the Monitoring Committee. For budgetary control 2022, the memo will include an update for the period 2021-2022 as well as a multiannual estimate for the period 2023-2027. The Monitoring Committee's estimates will be based, inter alia, on the macroeconomic parameters of the economic budget and the multiannual forecast of the Federal Planning Bureau of 14 February 2022. At that time, therefore, account will be taken of the most recent macroeconomic parameters, including inflation rates and the possible overrun of the central index in particular, and the budgetary status of the federal government and social security. The report of the Monitoring Committee can be expected by mid-March and will, as always, be available for consultation on the website of the FPS Policy and Support (BOSA). As for your question about the chances of an increase in interest rates on the part of the European Central Bank, I do not comment on that. I leave the decision on the increase or not the interest rate to the ECB, but based on the expectations of analysts, an increase in interest rates cannot be excluded in the coming years. A sensitivity analysis of the impact of inflation on the budget does not seem to me to be an obvious exercise, as I indicated during the discussion of the 2022 budget. Inflation does not only have a direct impact on the expenditure side, it also affects revenue. For example, in the case of one-on-one relationships, inflation leads to an increase in, for example, VAT receipts, but then ignores a possible change in consumption patterns. The impact of inflation on the budget may be very different, depending on the factors underlying it: are rising energy prices with an impact on the health index and therefore directly on the overrun of the spill-over index, are the other factors without an impact on the health debt index or are expected by the monetary authorities to be temporary or permanent, thus requiring tightening interest rate policies. Three times a year, the Federal Planning Office publishes an economic budget, with or without INR status. On the basis of these parameters, the government requests an update of the estimates from the Monitoring Committee. I believe that, on the basis of the parameters available from the Federal Planning Office, we will have much better and more concrete estimates than if this were done on the basis of a one-sided and necessarily simplified sensitivity analysis. The government and Parliament shall have the means, if necessary, to carry out budgetary controls and budgetary adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. Everything indicates that we are going to have two-digit inflation, a double-digital inflation. The budget will end up in severe weather. In the meantime, you have evolved from an inflation denier to an inflation denier. You are well aware that inflation will have a particularly negative impact on the budget. That is why I call not only for interest rates but also for inflation to be monitored on a monthly basis. I fear that the geopolitical and economic situation will force us to follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u47	Question No 55024591C by Mrs Dierick is transformed into a written question. We come to Mr. Leysen's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u48	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, much has already been said about this. You may also answer my question in writing to the extent that you still have information that you have not yet communicated today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 55025271C is therefore converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your willingness to accept this question. I had already asked the Minister of Finance, but he did not really answer or he did not pierce the mystery of section 6 of the last Ways and Means budget. This article allows the activation of an old 1954 law which deals with an extraordinary tax on exceptional income, profits and profits during wartime. Despite the current situation, reference is made here to World War II. In the supporting notes to the budget law, it is stated that these articles must continue to be retained in the budget, as "unfinished disputes concerning special taxes or extraordinary war tax will still remain after 31 December 2021". The Minister of Finance tells me that he is not aware of any pending legal disputes relating to these taxes. Madam Secretary of State, if there are no more pending cases, why are these items kept in the budget? There is a contradiction between the Minister's response and the content as well as the justification of section 6 of the Act of 23 December 2021 on the Ways and Means budget. What information is based on this justification of Article 6? If the Minister of Finance's response is correct, what is the usefulness of maintaining section 6?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u51	Mr Van Hees, I can only communicate to you that the Minister of Finance, who contradicts the Ways and Means budget, is responsible for the clauses of the bill you are quoting and their justification. So I can only refer to what the Minister of Finance has already told you about this. In light of the Minister of Finance's response, we will assess whether an extension of this section is still required in legislation containing the Ways and Means budget for fiscal year 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, if I hear your answer correctly, you cannot answer the contradiction that I have raised with the fact that this information is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance; but you are going to hustle him a little to solve this contradiction. Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. I guess we'll have an opportunity to talk about it in the next budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u53	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, recent events in Ukraine teach us how fleeting economic forecasts are. They are caught up very quickly by reality. From the figures published by the European Commission, we can conclude that Belgium has managed relatively well to counter the effects of the corona crisis on our economy. The Belgian economy contracted by 5.7% in 2020, while the euro area average was 6.4 %. Subsequently, according to the European Commission's forecasts, the Belgian budget increased by 6.1 % in 2021, compared to 5.3 % for the euro area. The government's policy of dealing with the consequences of the corona crisis has undoubtedly played an important role in this. Over the period 2020-2022, the Belgian economy would grow even faster than the euro area average. However, these figures also show that Belgium's projected growth for 2022 and 2023 remains below the euro area average. This strengthens me in the analysis I have already made several times, namely that structural reforms are needed to increase our growth potential. In fact, the general budget explanatory memorandum used the hypothesis that the acceleration of the overrun of the central index, as estimated by the Federal Planning Office at the time, would be broadly neutral for the federal budget. In the meantime, inflation has been further fueled, central index overruns will occur faster than expected and the impact of the government's measures to reduce the impact of higher energy prices on the population must be taken into account. In the framework of budgetary control, a full re-evaluation of revenue and expenditure will take place, both for 2022 and in the multiannual perspective towards 2027. Budgetary control will allow to update the figures on the basis of the economic budget and the multiannual estimate of the Federal Planning Office. As usual, the government will base its budgetary control on the note from the Monitoring Committee which is expected shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic720x.u54	So, Madam Secretary of State, Belgium is effectively the slowest growth rate in the European Union as a whole. Countries like Spain, Italy and even Greece are doing a lot better than Belgium. Moreover, inflation is a lot higher than growth. That makes the dramatic growth figures for this country even more problematic. Our inflation is at the highest in Europe. On the other hand, our growth is at the lowest in Europe. That is ultimately the worst possible combination one can have. The country's high budget deficit will eventually become a much bigger problem than slower growth. The fact that Belgium will end up on the European criminal record seems almost inevitable unless, under the influence of the Ukraine crisis, the European budgetary rules are postponed again. The challenge is to bring that deficit down anyway, without cutting investment. With the elections of 2024 in prospect, getting the budget on the right path is not easy. The Flemish interest has always said that October 2021 was the time to adjust. You let that moment pass. If this year, or after the Ukraine crisis, the economy regained momentum, there was room to intervene. So it should have happened in October, also because we are less than two years from the elections. You missed that opportunity. This was an opportunity that I don't think will be coming back in the next few months. We deeply regret that the government has not grasped this opportunity. The government did not have to clean up blindly, but a minimum of seriousness and effort was needed to protect the credibility of budgetary policy. This government has not done so at any time.
