ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55023193C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u2	Mr President, Minister, on 8 November 2021, we last met in committee and, a few days later, it was reported that a third derogation had been granted for neonicotinoids banned since 2018 at European level, for beet crops in 2022. This derogation is given when, last February, the Council of State sent five questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The purpose of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling is to clarify the contours of the article in the pesticide regulation, which allows farmers to provide derogations for the use of these substances, in particular on the notions of "special circumstances" and "which cannot be controlled by other reasonable means". This derogation is also given while the European biodiversity strategy calls for a 50% reduction in the use of our pesticides and a reversal of the decline in pollinators. On the other hand, Belgium still seems to be among the most generous countries in terms of derogations, in any case for those which target the most dangerous products at European level, those which are already banned. Minister, can you clarify the extent of the exemption granted? What crops and products are targeted, specifically for 2022? What areas were treated with neonicotinoids in 2021 following your previous exemption? Has the derogation dossier properly included an update of the "special circumstances" for 2022 and an update of the actual analysis of "other reasonable means" as well as documented information on the financial loss of compliance with European standards? Finally, how many derogations, all plant products combined, were given for 2021 at Belgian level? How does this put us at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u3	Madame de Laveleye, the derogation was granted for GAUCCO 70 WS (product based on imidacloprid). This product is used for coating beet, lettuce and endive seed. This derogation has allowed farmers to avoid applying insecticide treatment in the form of general spraying of crops subjected to insect pests and carrying viral diseases such as beet jaundice. No surface area has been treated with neonicotinoids since emergency authorizations relate only to the treatment of seeds. For your information, about 12,500 hectares of surface area have been sown with imidacloprid-treated seeds. No lettuce surfaces were treated with imidacloprid and idem for endives. Finally, I am particularly careful to ensure that the appropriate FPS Public Health department evaluates each application on an individual basis, taking into account the circumstances and the availability of alternatives at the time of application. As you know, and unfortunately, there is no conclusive alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. A few elements, however: you place a great deal of emphasis on the "treated surfaces" and "sowed areas" factor. All right! I accept, of course, that you make the difference, but I know that it only concerns the coating of seeds. You're talking about 22% of the area sown, which means that about 78% of the area sown for beets has not been subjected to neonicotinoids this year. It is still a significant figure which shows that the vast majority of productions have decided not to use it. However, our territory is very small and I do not see how there can be a significant difference between a field or two fields and the field next door. On the other hand, with regard to the analysis by your services of the exemption files, I mean that it is rigorous. I do not think that significant work is being done on the particular circumstances. We cannot imagine that every year the same particular circumstances come back. These are no longer specific circumstances, they are recurring circumstances that require another approach to the file. Other European countries are making efforts to use alternatives. Contrary to what you said, there are alternatives for many beet producers. Belgium must live up to its efforts to reduce the use of neonicotinoids. It is not because they are the world's best-selling and most lucrative pesticides that we must afford to look little at their derogation. We will continue to do this work in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u5	If 22% use neonicotinoids, the others have no alternatives and use sulfoxaflor. Is that what you prefer? It's plague or cholera. There is no credible alternative that is sufficient. It is the proposals that are made, and it is a bit regrettable. It should not be thought that those who do not use neonicotinoids have no alternative. Unfortunately, this is the debate: it is one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u6	Mr Minister, first of all, I think that 100% of those who do not use neonicotinoids do not use sulfoxaflor. There are beet producers in Belgium and neighbouring countries that do not use neonicotinoids or sulfoxaflor. We know them. They exist. They produce. Moreover, the productions of neighbouring countries are imported. Even Tirlemont does significant tests in this direction. It has been shown that this pale alternative argument is limiting, and probably not representative of the reality of our farmers. These products are banned at European level because they are too dangerous. At some point, a political choice will have to be made as to the direction to be taken: either we accept that these products are too dangerous and we are more rigorous, or we pretend that we are not in the midst of a crisis in the biodiversity of ecosystems and we continue to release derogations. But a political choice has to be made and we want it to be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u7	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Foodwatch Consumer Association analysed 152 food products purchased in France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Austria and found that 19 products were contaminated with aromatic hydrocarbons of mineral oils - MOAH (Mineral Oils Aromatic Hydrocarbons), i.e. one in eight products. As Foodwatch explains, these MOAHs are suspected to be carcinogens and mutagens and also to be present throughout the production chain. Their influence on the functioning of the hormonal system – endocrine disruptors – has also been shown. It would be found in dust binders, lubricants used in product machines, release agents or adhesives. In 2015, Foodwatch was already alerting its presence in products such as rice, couscous, lentils, pasta or baby milk. The European Food Safety Authority has established that any food exposure to MOAH poses a hazard. Therefore, a tolerance 0 must be applied for all MOAHs. Minister, have you been aware of the study conducted by Foodwatch? Since the problem is obviously not confined to Belgium, have you ever had contact with your European colleagues to prevent MOAH from being present in our food chain? Do you intend to strengthen the controls to see the presence of MOAH in the various products mentioned and to warn the consumer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u8	Mr. Chair, Minister, Mr. Prévot described the Foodwatch investigation and the risks associated with the use of mineral aromatic oils. As far as I am concerned, in particular, the AFSCA. Minister, is the AFSCA already aware of this situation? Has it also found the presence of hydrocarbons in these products? What are its conclusions in this regard? Will these products be removed from the shelves? Finally, are you considering reviewing the standards for the presence of MOAH and MOSH in food products? Do you have any contact with FPS Public Health to do this? Have you given any instructions to AFSCA on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, AFSCA has closely followed the publications on the various studies carried out by the NGO Foodwatch on the presence of mineral oil compounds in foodstuffs. His collaborators were informed of the latest study, notably via the issue of RTBF We're not pigeons!. After the first Foodwatch study mentioning the presence of mineral oil compounds in food, a study entitled MinOil was financed by the Department of Contract Research of the SPF Public Health to determine the migration of mineral oils from cardboard food packaging, identify the hazards and assess the exposure of the Belgian population. In this study completed in 2019, the presence of these compounds was found in food. These are often complex mixtures with very different characteristics. Some components in these mixtures may potentially pose a risk to public health and may be carcinogenic and genotoxic. However, the analytical methods for MOH compounds developed as part of this research project did not meet the quality and analytical performance criteria required by the official control. Discussions on the analytical performance of analytical methods are currently taking place at European level within the Joint Research Center and the European Community Reference Laboratory working groups on materials in contact with foodstuffs. The European Union reference laboratory has found analytical problems in various European laboratories involved in inter-laboratory tests in this field. It is therefore continuing its work to improve and harmonise the methods of analysis to be used by official laboratories. In addition to the analytical problems, there is currently no legal maximum limit for the presence of MOAH in foodstuffs, but the issue of its compounds in our diet is regularly addressed in the working group of the Committees of Experts on Chemical Contaminants at the European Commission. The Commission has mandated EFSA to carry out a health risk assessment of the presence of MOAH in foodstuffs. EFSA is expected to deliver an opinion in the course of 2022. In the face of these delays due to the European Commission, Belgium, in order to obtain a harmonised response to this problem more quickly, has invested heavily in the drafting of a Council of Europe resolution. This resolution recommends keeping the migration of MOAH as low as technically inevitable and ensuring that the migration of MOAH does not happen again. The AFSCA shall, as soon as it is aware, take measures to remove foods on the market that contain unacceptable amounts of mineral oils. On its website, recalls for different products can testify to this. Priority is given to infant food. AFSCA has scheduled analyses on this issue for 2022. They will be carried out if official methods and laboratories are available. Depending on the opinion of EFSA and the availability of laboratories, we will be able, if necessary, to strengthen controls on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u10	Minister, thank you for taking the moment of the current situation. In any case, your answer confirms that it is necessary to be very careful about these aromatic hydrocarbons of mineral oils. I also note that there are currently no standards for MOAHs but that an opinion should be given in the 2022 court by EFSA. On the other hand, I am pleased to note that the AFSCA is also addressing this issue and regularly removing non-compliant foods, with particular attention to infant foods. In the coming months, attention should be paid to their use, as these products have already been recognized as endocrine disruptors by many organisms. Of course, Belgium and the European Union will have to take a position on this issue. As my reply is over, Mr President, I would like to ask you and the committee secretariat to turn my question No 55024812C into a written question to save everyone time. In this way, I will also be able to rest my voice and be less unpleasant in the ears of the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u11	Thank you, Mr. Prévot. That's a good note!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have good news for you. If you want to get as low a limit as technically possible, it's zero. The maximum legal limit is a wrong approach. For example, in the Walloon Region, for geothermal drilling, glycol has been replaced by food glycol; for chainsaws, vegetable fats have been substituted for oil, etc. All manufacturing lines that fold cartons and handle plastic and packaging products must work with vegetable fats and oils. This is a low-cost solution that avoids the presence of mineral hydrocarbons in food products. That is why I believe that the limit must be zero. In this way, our fellow citizens will be protected from these risks. The limit of products exerting hormonal influence is infinitesimal. I've worked in immunology, I can tell you that these are pictograms. Thank you again, Minister, and good work!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u13	Mr President, I have an answer for both questions; I propose to read them and to answer Mrs Matz's question at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very attentive to the development of this problem, which has serious consequences for the farmers concerned. However, it also calls for greater caution in the safety of the agri-food chain. Indeed, if these standards set by Europe have been reviewed, it is on the basis of an update of the potential risks to the consumer of heavy metals. In this context, the management of soil and environmental pollution, reported here as historical, as well as the support of producers affected by the application of environmental standards, are exclusively regional competences. It is therefore for the Regions to draw up a clear picture of the nature and extent of environmental contamination, both in terms of the degree of contamination and in terms of geographical distribution. In addition, the Regions, through their expertise in agriculture, have a precise inventory of crops. They must be able to inform farmers of environmental risks and inform the AFSCA which will then manage the food security component with the farmers concerned. The AFSCA's sole task is to control agri-food products on the basis of European standards and to ensure that products placed on the market are healthy for the consumer. Within the limits of our respective powers, I have informed the Walloon Minister for the Environment, Mrs Tellier, and the Walloon Regional Minister for Agriculture, Mr Borsus, that I am prepared to work with them to find solutions to this problem. I have also given my consent to the participation of AFSCA in the working group set up by the Walloon regional bodies. The AFSCA is obviously ready to contribute its expertise to any initiative set up, as it already does in the case of metal grinders or in the PFAS files in Flanders. Indeed, the local control unit of Liège participates in the information and awareness network for a group of local marketers set up by the province of Liège through its agronomic service. AFSCA's risk assessment services are also mobilized. Operators are prohibited from marketing products that do not comply with the maximum levels set out in the Regulation. In 2021, three non-compliances with the maximum levels for metals, specifically lead and cadmium, were found in vegetables produced in Belgium, two of which were in market gardeners in the province of Liège. In the event of non-compliance caused by an exceedance of a maximum content included in the European Regulation, the food must be withdrawn from the market, as it is considered harmful to health. All operators are placed on an equal footing. There is no two-speed food security. As a reminder, the producer is responsible for its product. AFSCA cannot prohibit an operator from growing vegetables or other crops on land known to be in an area heavily contaminated by heavy metals. It is up to the producer to provide for measures to avoid contamination of these plant products during cultivation. It must seek information and, where appropriate, consult specialised bodies for the choice of crops and good agricultural practices to be foreseen. The environment and the support of producers are also regional competences. Nevertheless, the AFSCA is obviously ready to contribute its expertise to any initiative put in place to ensure food security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u14	Minister, thank you for your detailed and comprehensive response. I have, of course, also had the returns of the Walloon ministers concerned. For me, it is really a case of school, between the concern, which we share, to have the most ambitious standards for consumer protection; and at the same time the concern to support economic and agricultural actors in our regions. I can see the difficulty in which we are, which must also make us realize that every time we pollute soils, those who pay for the broken pots afterwards, it is the economic actors who can no longer produce, because these soils are no longer suitable for consumption, and of course the consumers we are, who take the risk of being contaminated. The only thing that asked me, at the federal level, about this issue is that these new actors finally received very little information from AFSCA when they started operating. I think there's still room for improvement here. I know that AFSCA is doing a lot to improve its support for small producers. But there, they were very surprised to discover the magnitude of the difficulty they had to face and that they had not been accompanied upstream to understand that the risks were known. Besides, they were confronted with the news of AFSCA like that when they came out of nowhere. So I think there is still room for improvement and we can support AFSCA still in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u15	The analysis of samples taken in the Westerschelde by the Dutch environmental chemist de Boer of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam shows that these samples contain more than 800 times the standard for PFAS. He conducted the investigation because the Westerschelde is contaminated, not least because it is close to heavy industry. The focus was on the eastern part of the Westerschelde, between Terneuzen and Antwerp. The factory of 3M is nearby and there have been PFOS discharges. Water quality on site was already monitored, but now it was specifically about the sediment. The bottom material of the river appears to be full of PFAS. The fish get that in. There would also be an impact on drinking water safety. According to Mr de Boer, these discharges really have to stop. He refers to DDT, a drug which has been banned in Belgium since the 1970s, but which we still encounter at checks. Will fish from the Westerschelde be marketed in Belgium? Drinking water quality is a regional competence, but the safety of the drinking water chain is a competence of the BFSA. Is that properly monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u16	Mrs Creemers, the catch of fishery products in the Westerschelde is done by Dutch operators. Their products can end up anywhere on the Belgian market. The primary responsibility for placing food on the market lies with operators according to European regulations. Each operator, including the fisherman, must consider the safety of its production or catch. The control of food safety in the Dutch fisheries sector is the responsibility of the Dutch authorities. In Belgium, the BFSA checks whether Belgian operators assume their responsibilities and also carries out checks, in the form of inspections and sampling of products on the Belgian market. Therefore, Dutch products can also be included. No exceedances of the action limits for PFOS and PFOA in fish developed by the BFSA have been established in these samplings so far. The control of drinking water is a regional competence. The BFSA only controls the safety of drinking water packaged or offered in food establishments or used for the manufacture and/or placing on the market of foodstuffs. To date, the BFSA does not carry out checks on PFAS in fishery products or drinking water from the Westerschelde. As you know, there are currently no legal standards for PFAS available for food and drinking water. In addition, no action limits are available for drinking water. The European Commission is the only body competent to define harmonised standards at European level. The Authority does not set standards. The process of setting standards for different foods started in 2021 by the European Commission, following the opinion of the European Food Authority EFSA dated 2020. Those European standards are expected in the course of 2022. At Belgian level, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment is the competent authority to define and propose national food safety standards to the competent minister. The FPS is also responsible for following up the discussion of food standards at European level. For the specific case of water, the BFSA has already urged the FOD to quickly set and propose standards. During European consultations in which the BFSA participates, there is consultation between EU Member States on specific food safety-related dossiers, such as PFAS in food. The control of possible environmental contamination of waterways is a competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. As far as the action limits on drinking water are concerned, I know that they are mainly regional powers, but if the water is used for weatherkin, there are also BFSA controls. What I have read on this is that the guidelines at EFSA level are very difficult to monitor with our current equipment, especially when it comes to drinking water quality. I hope you'll pass that on to the BFSA. Are their planes tuned to that? I also hope that the limits will come soon. I will ask Minister Vandenbroucke, but I understood that Belgium would move faster if we did not get standards from Europe by the end of 2021. After all, we are faced with the PFAS issue in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u18	Minister, in October 2021 I asked you about Belgium's position in the European negotiations on restrictions on the use of sulfoxaflor insecticide. As a reminder, the Commission recommends strict use under permanent greenhouses in order to preserve our biodiversity. In your reply, you mentioned that the proposal for a restriction on the inside alone was unnecessarily severe and that Belgium had expressed its non-support for the Commission's proposal to restrict the use of sulfoxaflor to indoor uses only. All this while EFSA already confirmed in 2020 that no external use was safe. The issue of sulfoxaflor was regularly placed on the agenda of the Commission's Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, and this was again the case at the meeting held on 28 and 29 January. A vote had been taken, and it seemed that Belgium had abstained. It was you who defended Belgium's position. Minister, do you confirm to me that Belgium has abstained? Has the Commission's proposal received sufficient support? Has the vote been coordinated with the federal Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Health? What recommendations have you received from the federated entities? How do you reconcile an abstention with the intention of adopting an ambitious position on pesticide reduction? How do you explain that the neighbouring countries voted in favour of the Commission's proposal? I would point out that it would appear from the information in my possession that 15 countries voted in favour of the proposal, and only 7 against. How does this forbearance fit into the national pollinator strategy and other biodiversity initiatives? Finally, how does this abstention respect our majority agreement that Belgium will hold an ambitious position at European level on the issue of chemical pesticides?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u19	Minister, I agree with Mrs de Laveleye's question and have two further questions. I have always understood that pesticides are a shared competence of Agriculture, Public Health and the Environment. I do not fully understand the path to our voting in Europe. I thought that the three ministers concerned should also discuss this issue and that you should come to a common position. How has this been done and how will it be done in the future, because there are still votes to be taken? Mr de Laveleye has already referred to the coalition agreement, the biodiversity strategy, the precautionary principle and the Farm to Fork strategy. I would like to add the One Health principle to that. This is often reflected in the policy statements of the three ministers working on pesticides, and I wonder how that fits in.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that Belgium abstained in the vote on the amendment of the conditions for the approval of sulfoxaflor. Belgium's neighbouring countries indicated during the meeting of European experts that they would vote in favour of the Commission's proposal. It is useful to point out that the final vote took place through a written procedure, which does not necessarily reflect the information previously and orally shared. On February 10, the Commission announced the results of the election for the thirteen files examined at the meeting of the Scouff held on January 27 and 28, 2022. Sulfoxaflor was agenda item B.08. No qualified majority has been reached. Fifteen countries finally voted in favour of the Commission proposal, seven voted against and five abstained. According to the positions expressed orally during the round table by the Member States, eight votes against and four abstentions were expected. I held a consultation meeting with Minister Frank Vandenbroucke on this subject on Thursday, January 27. This meeting was followed by an informal inter-cabinets meeting which allowed all the firms concerned to make their comments and recommendations on the subject. You know that the materials handled by the Directorate-General for Animals, Plants and Food of the FPS Public Health are exclusively within my competence. I had decided, after having received the explanations of our experts based on scientific knowledge and risk assessment, to ask the representatives of Belgium to vote against the Commission's proposal. In the absence of consensus, Belgium has therefore abstained in this forum. As for the federated entities, there was no reason to involve them in the discussion and the voting decision, their powers being limited to the use of plant protection products. I do not consider it appropriate to compare countries on this subject. Regulations approving, renewing, withdrawing or adapting the existing conditions for approval of active substances shall apply throughout the Union. National circumstances should not be taken into account at this level. The basic principle is to approve uses which have been considered safe somewhere in the European Union. Where Member States have specific national circumstances which justify a more restricted use of a substance than is possible at European level, they may take this into account at the level of authorisations of plant protection products in their country. In line with my general policy statement of 5 November 2020, it is indeed scientific arguments that supported my administration's position on this dossier at the SCOPAFF meeting. These arguments were, of course, taken into account in the protection of bees and other pollinators. The European Commission has already proposed limiting the use of Sulfoxaflor to permanent greenhouses to better protect bees. However, several Member States, including Belgium, have stressed that by taking certain measures to reduce risks, use in the open air could pose an acceptable risk to bees. This limitation to permanent greenhouses was therefore, in my opinion, seen as stricter than necessary to protect bees and as excessively restrictive with regard to the European agricultural sector. Before validating the Belgian vote proposed by my administration, I have ensured that an adequate level of protection of pollinators has been taken into account, on the basis of scientific data and an analysis of the risks, so that we do not deviate from our strategy in favour of biodiversity. The evaluation of the additional data on the effects on bees that led the Commission to formulate this restriction proposal was carried out on the basis of a guide which was not adopted and which is currently being revised. In addition, this guide to assessing the risk to solitary bees and bumblebees used safety factors on which there is no scientific consensus. The Authority even points out that an acceptable risk to honey bees can be obtained. For the solitary bees and bumblebees, EFSA points out that a conclusion on an acceptable risk is not possible due to a lack of data. The measures allowing safe use for honey bees according to EFSA were developed on the basis of expert opinions based on their scientific knowledge. These measures are also sufficient to ensure safe use for wild bees and bumblebees. Several countries have similar views on the measures needed to ensure safe use.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u21	Mr. Chairman, Minister, there is part of your answer that I have not understood very well. You said that an entity or someone had asked to vote against the proposal. But I didn't hear the words you said right before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u22	Would you like me to inform you of the result of the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u23	No! You said that someone or an entity had encouraged you to vote against it. I didn't understand who you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u24	Madame de Laveleye, if I understood correctly, at the outset, the minister wanted to vote against, but that consensus had not been reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u25	In so doing, you abstained, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u26	I wanted to vote against the proposal. I had a meeting with Mr Vandenbroucke, as provided for in the protocol. Subsequently, there was an intercabinet meeting with all federal ministers. Since a consensus could not be reached in this intercabinet, I abstained, as provided for in the usual regulations. I have therefore taken into account the views of my colleagues, since the position that was defended was different from the position I had originally announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u27	Thank you very much for your answer. I will go back to some points. A consultation with the Minister of Health is planned and you say that an intercabinet meeting – an IKW – would have taken place. I understand that this IKW took place at the time when Belgium's vote had already been issued... Either! So it's a mistake. I'll take note of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u28	Obviously, some of my colleagues do not necessarily have a good understanding of the dates and processes were alarmed long before the vote. The IKW took place well before the vote. There was, in fact, a stress in the head of some.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u29	All right! When we talk about a pesticide, there are important impacts on the environment. It seems to me that structural cooperation must be carried out with the Federal Minister for the Environment. It'll be for the annals. Secondly, there is still a government agreement which announces that it will base its positions on two principles: science-based and the precautionary principle. According to the first, it has been widely shown that sulfoxaflor does not have safe use for outdoor bees. Thus, the precautionary principle should have prevailed in the choice of vote. On the other hand, as I mentioned in the previous question, there is also a comment in the government agreement that the federal government will adopt an ambitious approach to reducing chemicals. And yet, we learn that Belgium ranks among the least ambitious countries at European level on the issue of sulfoxaflor. Finally, I find it particularly cynical to develop federal strategies on pollinators, biodiversity, endocrine disruptors, etc. without supporting a reasonable proposal from the Commission which, however, as a reminder, is not always the head of environmental protection. I will conclude by reminding you one last time that we are still facing an unprecedented biodiversity crisis and that all international bodies are sounding the alarm. The Stockholm Resilience Centre has just released a report that says that we have exceeded the global limit related to chemical pollution. On the basis of all this, Mr Minister, I would still like to say to you that, as environmentalists, we cannot at all feel solidarity with such an unambitious vote on the part of Belgium. I hope that it can be reviewed in future negotiations with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u30	Minister, I also agree with what Mr de Laveleye says, but I would like to continue with those scientific arguments for a moment. If I understand you correctly, your administration says that the EFSA should not be taken into account. In your opinion, EFSA would use studies on which there is no real scientific consensus, but the European Commission still uses EFSA as the standard. If EFSA says that certain products pose a real risk to the bees, then we are not going to play with them. Then we are not going to allow another scientist who does not want to accept that position to decide on the Belgian position. I see a very large link to the derogations of the neonicotinoids from earlier. This is exactly the same: it is about a service in your administration that believes that an acceptable risk can still be achieved, when it is already five after twelve. There is nothing more as an acceptable risk to bees. With the bees we can take no more risks, because for neonicotinoids and Sulfoxaflor there are alternatives, but not for the bees. It's really 5:12. We cannot tolerate that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I am asking my question following a recent report by Pano. This showed that one in 20 products containing chicken meat or turkey meat tested in the store have been contaminated with salmonella. In 2021, the BFSA tested 291 products with chicken and turkey meat from the supermarket. Nineteen products were found to be tested positive for salmonella. The increase is due to a type of salmonella that is becoming more and more common, especially salmonella infantis. This variant is increasingly found in chickens, but there are still too few scientific data to estimate whether this type of bacteria makes more people sick. Mr Minister, are there any reasons why the figures for self-checking by farmers and slaughterhouses differ from those of the BFSA? What concrete solutions do you and the BFSA offer to reduce this problem of salmonella? Is it appropriate to strengthen the auto-controls around salmonella in the various links of the chain with additional controls of the BFSA? The same report showed that also the chicken sausage from supermarket chain Aldi tested positive for salmonella. That meat was grown and slaughtered in Poland. The responsibility for the phytosanitary safety of food, in this case chicken meat, lies with the Member State of origin. That's also what the BFSA indicated. The BFSA also pointed out that every food company in Europe must comply with the same rules and that the controls are the responsibility of the Member States. They are then checked by the European Commission. However, the salmonella contamination of Polish chicken meat that is in store with us is also causing a problem of food safety. It is therefore important that this issue is addressed at European level. Minister, how do you estimate the risks of salmonella contamination of imported Polish chicken meat on our public health? Has the BFSA often discovered salmonella-infected meat from other EU Member States in general and Poland in particular? What actions will you take with regard to the Polish authorities, but also with regard to shops in which these products are found?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u32	Mr President, Minister, Mr De Caluwe has already outlined it very extensively, so I will not repeat all the questions. I have two further questions. In Flanders, very good steps have been taken with the Better Chicken Commitment, with the aim of increasing the welfare of the chickens and raising some standards for the Flemish producers. When one sees this report, I am a little afraid of a two-speed food safety, which imposes high standards on the Flemish chicken farmers, whereas those standards are not so high for processed meat entering through another Member State, which puts our own chicken farmers in a difficult position. How can we ensure that we do not have these two speeds via the BFSA? If I have understood the Panoreportage correctly, there are significantly more reports of salmonella contamination in processed meat coming from Poland than from the other Member States. Can the BFSA anticipate this by doing even more checks, specifically for meat from Member States where there are disproportionately many infections? If there were effective so many infections, can we not simply decide to stop imports from those countries? That might put our Flemish chicken farmers in a more favourable position with that Better Chicken Commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u33	Mr President, Mr De Caluwe, Mrs Creemers, the producer is responsible for the safety of his products, as laid down in European legislation. The poultry sector certainly accepts its responsibility in the context of salmonella. Auto-control ensures the safety of the food chain at different levels, but this is the responsibility of the operator and cannot therefore be taken over by the government. Since 2007, adapted and efficient measures have been developed, both at national and European level, for the detection and control of salmonella, in order to reduce its occurrence and the risk to public health. No more analyses are carried out in any sector and for no zoonoses than for salmonella in poultry. European legislation lays down a process hygiene criterion for salmonella for roast chickens and turkeys. The monitoring of compliance with the process hygiene criterion is also carried out by the operators of the slaughterhouses in the context of the auto-checking process. As regards the sampling of primary production, a difference is also seen in other EU Member States in the percentage of positives between the samples taken by the competent authorities and the samples taken by poultry farmers. There are several reasons for this. The timing and quality of sampling have an influence, as well as the one who takes the samples, professional versus poultry holder. In addition, 10% of the official samples are taken on holdings which have achieved positive salmonella enteritidis or salmonella typhimurium in the last 12 months. Due to possible persistent presence, these studies are more often positive. At the slaughterhouse level, samples shall be taken by the BFSA each year to check the process hygiene criteria for salmonella spp. The slaughterhouse operators have been reporting their salmonella results through the Beltrace application since 1 January 2020. Those results are not significantly different. Specific measures are already being taken according to the species category at the poultry farmer level. At the slaughterhouse level, checks are carried out in accordance with EU legislation in the context of car checks to ensure compliance with process hygiene and food safety criteria. This also applies to processed poultry meat products. In failing to comply with these criteria, companies must take corrective measures and, during the BFSA's review, check whether those measures are being taken. If problems are identified repeatedly, the BFSA will monitor more closely and impose additional measures, in accordance with EU rules. However, the zero risk does not exist. Even with the best systems, contamination may occur. The BFSA oversees the car control systems and also takes samples in all links of the chain as part of the control programme. It can therefore be concluded that there are already far-reaching control mechanisms and rules at different levels for the control of salmonella. No additional measures are needed at the moment. Salmonella serotypes which are transmissible to humans are not considered animal diseases, since they do not make the animals sick, but they do become zoonoses. So, Mrs Dierick, it makes sense that salmonella was not mentioned in the answer to your previous question on animal disease. A brief overview of the results of the Belgian monitoring can be found on the website of the BFSA. Since not all serotypes are zoonotic salmonella equally pathogenic or virulent, I can tell you that the presence of the main serotypes for humans is between 1.3 and 3.6 %, depending on the type of poultry. There is no problematic circulation and salmonella is isolated. But compared to the countries around us, we are at the same level. Until now no food outbreaks in Belgium could be related to poultry meat from Poland. Since poultry meat is well cooked before it is consumed, the food safety risk is limited. In 2021, 67 RASFF messages were prepared by Member States following the detection of salmonella in poultry meat and derived products. Of these, 36 products came from Poland. Belgium has itself made four RASFF notifications concerning poultry products from Poland. Following the disproportionate number of RASFF messages for salmonella contamination of Polish meat, an action plan is being implemented by Poland at the request of the European Commission. If this proves necessary, an audit will also be carried out by the European Commission services. Salmonella controls are harmonised in the EU and there is therefore a level playing field for all operators within the EU. It is therefore not expected that one Member State will carry out targeted checks on products produced in another Member State. Each Member State has a responsibility within Europe to ensure food safety on its territory. Non-conformitys which pose a risk to public health shall be communicated to the competent authorities of the different Member States and communication through the RASFF system. The necessary measures shall be taken. The handling of the files shall be carried out by the competent departments, without interference from the political level. Aldi, like all operators in the food chain, was and will be subject to the BFSA's control according to established frequencies. As a result of the identified contaminations, Aldi met the requirements regarding the reporting obligation to the BFSA. Appropriate measures were taken on the products concerned, including withdrawal from the market. Mr President, I also answered Mrs Dierick's question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u34	Indeed, Minister, we must not take any risks with food safety. That is what the consumer rightly expects. It is therefore crucial, particularly within the European single market, that we can rely on the controls carried out abroad. It is therefore worrying that so much contaminated meat from Poland finds its way to our store stalls, but it is good that the European Commission is taking action to remedy this problem. That is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u35	Minister, I agree with Mr De Caluwe that it is reassuring in itself that the European Commission is acting and recognises that there are many notifications from Poland. I hope that we can agree with Europe on the strict line and that we will not refrain from doing so. Finally, I have a suggestion. Your policy paper states that you intend to set up a knowledge centre on zoonoses. Since there are so many problems with salmonella, you said that it is the most frequently controlled species, there is perhaps a role for the centre of knowledge on zoonoses to investigate and take steps in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u36	Question No 55024812C by Mr Patrick Prévot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u37	Mr Minister, this question concerns the environment of the Tenneco company in Sint-Truiden. In the previous series I asked a question about this because there is quite a bit of concern about historical PFOS pollution in that neighborhood. From your answer I could see that the BFSA had not been informed by the competent environmental administration and could not take or take any ad hoc measures. Over the past few weeks something has come to light in Sint-Truiden. A local opposition party in the city council has decided to take blood samples of its own from the local residents. This shows that the inhabitants have a slightly increased PFOS level in their blood after all. They're all very worried. Tenneco says he will take samples himself in the neighborhood and in the gardens. Gardens are not federal jurisdiction. I'm worried on two fronts. Tenneco will now take samples himself. At 3M in Zwijndrecht we have already seen that when the company itself stands for something, the standards are often somewhere else than with someone who has a high regard for public health. Is this the way you prefer to work? I've already asked a lot of questions about several places with increased PFOS values. Then you must always answer that according to the distributions of competences, the BFSA can only take action if the competent administration informs them. The PFOS Committee of Inquiry in the Flemish Parliament shows that the Flemish environmental administration does not always take the steps it needs to take. I wonder if we should maintain the system, while the BFSA is waiting for a notification of an administration directed by the region. Can we not give a more proactive role to the BFSA in this respect when it comes to food safety that is close to our hearts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u38	Mrs Creemers, since the answer to your question of 19 November 2021, the BFSA has no additional information available. There is therefore no reason to carry out further investigations. The BFSA itself does not have information about the blood tests or their results. It cannot, moreover, comment on its possible significance for public health, since it does not have the authority to do so. Since it is an environmental contamination, it is primarily the Flemish government that conducts the investigation and the competent authority is in charge of taking measures against the residents, including any food they produce themselves. Information from research, including from companies, can be taken into account by the competent government in its decisions. I cannot comment on the reliability of the medical results, as I am not aware of the research that will be carried out by the company concerned and what that will mean. I can tell you that there are no agricultural activities in the immediate vicinity of the farm. If food businesses were located in a contaminated zone, it would remain their primary responsibility to ensure the food safety of their products through their auto-control system, as laid down in European legislation, and to take into account environmental contamination in their auto-control system. In order to help operators, the BFSA has developed guidelines for setting up a self-checking monitoring exercise. Groundwater used as drinking water does not fall within my competence. The BFSA cannot be accused of negligence in relation to the entire PFAS file. For many years it has been carrying out a risk-based control programme with sampling across the territory, long before the Flemish government took initiatives. Based on the results, the BFSA has never been given an indication of a possible PFAS problem in the food chain. As soon as the BFSA, which had to be informed by the press that there was a possible problem with the company 3M in Zwijndrecht, knew about the problem, it took action. First through a reorientation of the control programme and a specific action in the vicinity of the 3M site, then through background monitoring of products from Flemish farmers. This background monitoring will soon be extended to the entire Belgian territory. In the case of concrete environmental contamination, the BFSA needs first information from the regional authorities to take the appropriate measures or, as you put it, to take action. As you know, I am responsible for the environmental safety of the food chain and, with the Minister for Health, I have called on the European Commission to quickly obtain harmonised European standards for PFOS. In the future I will continue to take this competence to heart and I will continue to pay attention to the PFAS issue together with the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for making my point exactly. I think we are in agreement. It is terrible that the BFSA, responsible for our food safety, should read in the press that there is a major problem near Zwijndrecht. That's just the essence of my last question. The BFSA learned in the press that there is a problem. Next, the BFSA takes action to ensure food safety, which is great. However, we must admit that there is a problem in the flow of information somewhere. We're gonna have to look at that from a little distance. Surely our food safety cannot depend on a link that we cannot control? We must be able to do something about this, together with the regions. I hope that at a later date we will be able to discuss this further in order to find solutions, so that the BFSA does not have to read the newspaper every day to find out where our food safety may be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u40	Minister, a very interesting study has been carried out in France on spray residues. This shows that 90% of the samples viewed are between 21 and 100 metres of oatmeal residues in the buffer zones against pesticides. I have been frustrated for years because I think the buffer zones are far too narrow and too small. The rule also says that pesticides should only be used when the wind is right, but that is very difficult to control. I have the following questions. Are there similar studies in Belgium, of course in cooperation with the regions, because I am very aware that it is not just a federal competence? In the last five years, have there been approvals for the irrigation of areas in the vicinity of publicly accessible areas and, where appropriate, exceeded the watering standard? Are we not also faced with the challenge of reviewing the buffer zones? Is that in the pipeline or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u41	Mrs Creemers, a number of studies have been carried out in the past on the presence of pesticides in the vicinity of sprayed areas. There are no such studies anymore, as I know. In other words, it is not clear from the possible presence of pesticides whether there is a problem for residents because it is not clear which concentration and frequency they were exposed to. As part of the reduction plan for plant protection products, my competent administration follows up the published epidemiological publications to assess the chronic effects of plant protection products on the population. Given the pace of publications relevant to our Belgian situation, it was only in 2020 that it was possible to draw the first conclusion and a number of guidelines for a policy on chronic risk management were drawn up. This will be further monitored in the context of the reduction plan. When granting federal authorisations for the placing of plant protection products on the market, authorisations shall be granted only if, on the basis of the evaluation of the toxicity of the plant protection product concerned, no specific distance has to be maintained to protect residents or passers-by. It is therefore not possible to be even stricter in this area. At federal level, no separate permits are granted to spray specifically accessible places. In the context of the NAPAN, we work together with the Regions. Measures designed to protect specific vulnerable population groups fall within the competence of the Regions. Finally, the draft NAPAN 2023-2027 programme, which is currently under public consultation, includes a joint action to harmonise opportunities for the protection of residents between regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is indeed about residents and passers-by, but also about hives. There are figures about bees at the BFSA, because beekeepers with massive bee mortality must warn the BFSA. In such cases, a veterinarian should also be present. I'm very glad you mention it to NAPAN. Last week we had a very interesting hearing on the NAPED. It mentioned the huge amount of EUR 4.4 billion in expenditure, annual costs for the State, as regards hormone-distorting effects caused by hormone-distorting substances. According to the report, most of them can be traced back to pesticides. That led my colleague de Laveleye and myself to ask to discuss the public consultation on the NAPAN in Parliament, just as we did with the NAPED. Colleagues mentioned the hearing on the NAPED as very interesting, and we have learned a great deal from it. A hearing can also put a magnifying glass on that public consultation, because it allows people to study the NAPAN that could otherwise not do so. Mr President, I would ask you to put that question to the committee tomorrow in the course of the discussion of the rules of procedure. We ask the Minister's administration to explain the willingness to come to NAPAN. Before that public consultation ends in mid-March, we ask for a dialogue in the Chamber with the people who have described federal actions in the NAPAN.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic695x.u43	Mrs Creemers, you can suggest that tomorrow. With your persuasiveness that can be planned or not, we will have to wait and see. Then we'll make the necessary arrangements. I take it the Minister will not object in his own right.
