ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the delay. I was still stuck in the core. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last year my colleague from the Interior and myself had the opportunity to discuss with you in the Joint Committee on Justice and Home Affairs the state of play of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Research Committee on Terrorist Attacks 22 March 2016. Everyone will recognise that much has changed since that disastrous day and that the report of the Committee of Inquiry, which with a great deal of authority put its finger on the wound, has begun. Our security services have become more robust since then. We have evolved from island formation to information sharing and cooperation. I am not pretending that everything has been resolved or that we can guarantee absolute security. Especially among the victims there was and is still much suffering and there are still many frustrations. The testimonies of the victims leave no one untouched. You critiques and questions from a year ago didn't fall into deaf ears with us either. At first we were criticized that we had given you too much information in bulk. Last year you were delivered a state of affairs that was almost as thick as the report of the Committee of Inquiry itself. We responded to that criticism, and on 18 March this year we provided you with a report on the state of implementation of the recommendations concerning the Justice Part. Thank you very much for the questions we have now received. I'll try to answer as many as I can. A lot of precise questions were asked to me yesterday until late at night. Actually, 56. If I do not respond fully in detail today, I am certainly prepared to send the details in writing. A number of questions have also been asked about statistics and figures. I would ask you to put these questions in writing. I was also asked a number of questions about the police. I suggest you direct it to the Home Secretary. She gave an introductory speech last week and will return to the committee on 21 June to answer the questions. Before I explain what we have done over the past year in implementing the recommendations, I would like to briefly explain the current threat picture. I give a brief overview of the current threat picture as identified by OCAD, in cooperation with the support services. The general level of the threat of terrorism in Belgium has been set at level 2 - medium - on a scale of 1 to 4. This means that the OCAM considers the threat of a terrorist attack currently unlikely, but that it has not disappeared. Islamist terrorism represents the main terrorist threat and is followed by terrorism linked to right-wing extremism. The current terrorist threat associated with left-wing extremism is considered to be low. A limited number of potential targets of terrorist candidates remain at threat level 3, which implies specific protection and security measures. The last terrorist attack in Belgium that resulted in the death of Belgian citizens occurred in Liège on 29 May 2018. In 2021, the number of terrorist threats leading to priority investigations and arrests remained relatively low, confirming the trend observed in recent years. The main terrorist threat continues to emanate from endogenous actors using unsophisticated weapons. The vast majority of threat reports concern individuals who, after an initial examination of their situation, have a profile of isolated actors, regardless of the ideological trend in which they are involved. Only a very small number, five to be precise, of attacks or incidents that took place in Europe can be described as terrorists with a high degree of certainty. All significant attacks and incidents were perpetrated by isolated actors. As far as our country is concerned, it is worth mentioning a recent incident in Verviers on 18 August 2021, in particular because the extremist motive of the assailant remains so far uncertain. This is a recurring observation when examining a large number of contemporary terrorist incidents: the individual assaulted two people with a knife, wounding them both, before being arrested. His ideological beliefs seem unsophisticated, superficial and partially inconsistent but may have guided his action, at least partially. The individual seems to have limited intellectual abilities and is an impulsive and irritable character, which probably led to his violent behaviour. In prison, he shows no signs of radicalization or threats. The incident has so far not been described as a terrorist act. So vigilance remains imperative. Our structures have also been adapted for this purpose. I am thinking in particular of the Strategy Terrorism, Extremism and Radicalisation, which was approved by all governments in the Consultation Committee in September 2021. What is the difference with the radicalism action plan, the predecessor of Strat TER? The radicalism action plan was updated in 2015, but the commitment of the Länder was never sealed or formalised. We have now corrected that system error with the strategic note. That may seem a formality, but that's not the point. All governments in this country now subscribe to the structures that we developed after 22 March 2016: the LTF, the LIVC and the GGB, managed by the OCAD. The Local Task Forces and the Local Integral Safety Cells are and will remain in the concept of risk management the multidisciplinary consultation platforms par excellence, which act as a nerve centre of the whole strategy, where information is exchanged and where action is decided on a case-by-case basis. Mr Pivin, in Flanders, 10 municipalities do not have a Local Comprehensive Security Cell (CSIL). In Wallonia, 38 don't have one. In Brussels, the 19 municipalities have a CSIL. As far as Wallonia is concerned, I know that Minister Glatigny is preparing a decree on CSIL. I hope that this will help the last municipalities to create such a structure. The information officer forms the link between the LTF and the LIVC. Under the impetus of the DJSOC, the OCAD and the VSSE, training was developed for the information officer. This three-day training has been organised in the various police schools of our country since autumn 2019. On the same basis and in a similar manner, but adapted to the needs of the socio-preventive actors, the National Working Group on Prevention of Strategy TER, in cooperation with experienced participants of the LIVCs, has developed a three-day training pathway for the coordinators and participants of the LIVCs. That training shall start in autumn 2022. Do not underestimate the importance of this: such training will eventually lead to all partners speaking the same language - figuratively then - in the detection and approach of radicalisation. In order to make the difference between radicalism, which we have no problem with in a democracy, being radical is not a crime, and extremism is a deliberate attempt to undermine the social order. After the threat, I will now go into the hatch on the victims. Many questions were asked on this subject, including Mr. Pivin, Ms. Van Vaerenbergh, Ms. Dillen, Mr. Vajda, Mr. Boukili, Ms. Rohonyi and Mr. Aouasti. Before going into some important safety initiatives, we must, of course, consider the part of the victims. In this respect, it is very important that, when it comes to compensation for the victims of acts of terrorism, the initiative of my colleague from the Economy is taken. He is currently working on a preliminary draft law aimed at creating a framework for the compensation of damage caused by a terrorist act, including a framework for solidarity with victims who cannot rely on insurance cover or whose insurance coverage does not allow all damages to be covered. The draft was drawn up from the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and the legislative initiatives taken by the previous government, which I discussed extensively in 2021 during the discussion of the recommendations. However, the victim associations were also heard. It is not for me to elaborate on this in detail today. However, the dossier will soon be transferred to the Council of Ministers and will then come to Parliament. We can discuss this at that time. As regards compensation for victims, Article 42s of the Law of 1 August 1985 provides that victims of terrorism or occasional rescuers may claim the reimbursement of their lawyers' fees up to a maximum of EUR 12,000. This is regularly used. A large number of victims have decided to ask for an intervention in the legal costs until the end of the assistance process. This allows victims, Mr. Boukili, among other things, to pay the costs and fees of lawyers informed by victims' associations, such as Life4Brussels, or other lawyers. Several bodies can intervene for financial compensation for victims of terrorism: insurers, the Federal Pension Service and health care institutions through the mutualities and the Auxiliary Cash for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. The Commission may contribute to financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. That victim committee received a total of 1,645 applications for financial assistance between 22 March 2016 and May 2022. A total of EUR 6,883,334,76 has so far been paid to the victims. The state of play until May 2022 is the following. In 1,018 files a decision has been made. In doing so, we have to charge that, just before the expiry of the three-year deadline for the submission of a request, some 500 applications were submitted at the beginning of 2020. EUR 1.892.000 was granted for emergency aid, EUR 641.089.58 in advances and EUR 4.350.245.18 in main aid. The first sums were paid out in July 2016. These are dossiers for various acts of terrorism, most of them related to the 2016 attacks. Assuralia's figures can be obtained if necessary through my fellow Minister for Economic Affairs. Why hasn't all the files been decided yet? The files on which a decision has not yet been taken have different causes. Usually the file is still being processed by the insurer, because further investigation is required. These are, for example, cases of direct victims who are still under investigation by the experts or whose impact of their injuries has not yet been consolidated. These are also files of indirect victims where direct damage to their immediate vicinity could not yet be determined. Only if the direct damage is determined can the indirect damage be estimated. They also cover cases of direct or indirect victims who, subject to reservation, only applied for compensation for lawyers' expenses in order to participate in criminal proceedings. A second reason why it has not yet been decided in all the dossiers is that the time limit for dealing with the requests depends on the completeness of the dossier. Once all the elements are available, the request will be processed within 30 days. As I said, at the beginning of 2020 more than 500 applications were submitted. The examination of all these applications could not yet be completed. Despite the difficulties that we are still experiencing today, many of the victims have given me genuine recognition for the human commitment of the victims' committee. More precisely and in addition to Mr Aouasti's question, what initiative have we taken in response to Life4Brussels' recent critical letter? I can add that we have recognized the psychological impacts on the people who rescued the victims, apart from a structured relief organization. They may apply to the Commission for financial assistance for victims of intentional acts of violence. Depending on individual cases and the medical sequence, post-traumatic stress can be recognized. Second, individuals who acted on behalf of a structured relief organization – ambulance workers, Red Cross, police, firefighters – can contact their employer. Several questions were asked, notably by Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs Dillen, as well as by Messrs. Pivin and Boukili, concerning the inter-federal task force on the basis of one of the recommendations relating to the victims. In this regard, I can tell you that this body was indeed convened in 2017 and that it met for the last time in 2018. By decision of the previous Minister of Justice, it was no longer convened. I was asked why she was no longer meeting to prepare for the trial of the bases of the attacks. I can tell you clearly that this trial has been and is being prepared in the various inter-federal working groups. In October 2019, three working groups were formed under the leadership of the steering group. The Communities and the Houses of Justice have been involved in this process. I'll come back in more detail in a moment, because it's important. I can say the following about the unique window. At the suggestion of my predecessor, a central point of contact was set up at the federal courthouse. This single point of contact is now operational and equipped with specialised staff. Victim counselling is also about getting wise, in an empathetic way, in the mess of administrations and services. This central point can be activated in the event of terrorist attacks or major calamity, such as a train disaster such as in Buizingen or a gas disaster such as in Ghislenghien. On 22 April 2019, a protocol agreement was concluded between the federal level and the Länder. When the central point of contact is activated, victims are proactively informed in the Belgian maze of services. In a schematic, it was precisely agreed and determined how federal and regional levels would find each other and, above all, how to proactively move towards the victims. I am very specific about what we have done in the Justice Department for the victims in the past year. First of all, we've installed the victim coaches. A recognised victim association suggested this and worked it out and Justice has decided to support this system with public funds. The three coaches were recruited and trained professionally, including by an Israeli expert in experience. A member of the opposition specifically said at the beginning of this year in the plenary that he was talking about a man - impressed by these people and their work. I can tell you, that goes for me too. What those three people do, from a human point of view, is hugely difficult. We have introduced a different way of dealing with the victims, from the experience of the victim himself through a one-to-one relationship with the coach. The feedback we get on this is positive. Let me give you the figures, with the nuance, of course, that figures in these matters are particularly relative. 146 victims were contacted by coaches, 46 French speakers, 54 Dutch speakers and 46 others. 87 victims also effectively asked for help or assistance from the coaches. Six victims explicitly did not request further assistance. Secondly, with regard to the Commission for the Assistance of Victims, the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence - I answer a question from Mr Vajda - the Council of Ministers approved on 20 May a preliminary draft law which introduces a new accelerated written procedure to enable victims to be compensated more quickly by this fund. It is not acceptable for victims to wait an average of 28 months before their case is processed. An accelerated written procedure can provide relief. The bill also provides that the Fund will now be able to grant financial assistance, while the damage is only partially determined. For example, pending an expert review, at a later date, the Fund may then decide on the final amount of the costs. The draft law is currently under consideration by the Council of State. Parliament will then be able to look at it. This is in addition to the decision already taken to strengthen the Victim Assistance Commission and to digitize the files by linking them to the court case management system, so that the Commission can consult the files in digital form. We thus take our responsibility for faster compensation for the victims. Thirdly, when we talk about the victims, we cannot but dwell on the process of attacks that will start in the autumn. In fact, Mr Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Dillen have asked a question about this. This is, of course, an unseen process. More than 1,000 bourgeois parties are expected. That number does say something about the extent of the suffering that was caused on 22 March 2016. It was agreed with French fellow Members that the process would take place in our country after the Paris process on the attacks on 13 November 2015. Moreover, that process is still ongoing and was delayed, partly because of covid contamination of some of the accused. The preliminary dates are the following: preliminary hearing on 12 September this year, selection of the jury on 10 October, first session on 13 October 2022. As you know, the process takes place in the former NATO buildings in Evere. It'll take several months. Various partners have worked hard to ensure that everything can be done in the best possible conditions. We have, of course, learned a lot from the process in Paris. On 16 May, a preliminary meeting was held by the Court of Assisen, in the presence of all parties. The actual process takes place in a courtroom and seven relay rooms. These relay rooms are considered to be an extension of the sitting room. Everything that happens in a relay room is considered to be happening in the courtroom. For this purpose, each relay room is equipped with an audio and video system that allows the judges of the Assisenhof, who are in the courtroom, to be able to see and hear at all times what is happening in a relay room and vice versa. In addition, two more rooms, called transmission rooms, are set up as a space where the public can follow the process. As it should be, a lot of attention has been paid to the victims. They will be provided with the necessary facilities by means of an accreditation procedure. In good cooperation with the Communities, the victims will be accompanied by judicial assistants. For this there is close cooperation with the federal prosecutor's victim cell. The services do everything they can to provide proper guidance: personal, human and understandable. We also provide the infrastructure for the victims to follow the process remotely. This has been put right in an infrastructure manner and the legal framework for this has also been prepared, it is part of the Bill "Humanly, Punishment and Fast" Part 2 which will shortly be submitted to Parliament. In Paris, a web radio is successfully used. That web radio allows victims to monitor the process remotely. The audio is broadcast by half an hour delay, which gives the chairman of the Assenhof, who at all times has control over the web radio, the opportunity to stop the broadcast. This could happen if certain incidents occurred in the courtroom. Contacts and visits to colleagues in Paris show that the web radio is a very useful and grateful instrument. This allows victims to follow the process remotely. The benefit for the victims who are abroad certainly does not need further explanation. The chairman of the Court of Assistes is the one who ultimately decides whether the web radio will eventually be used. I think it would be useful for the members of the Justice Committee to be able to visit the Justitia site in the near future. I've already asked my administration to organize such a visit. The third part concerns safety. I would like to dwell on our recent policy initiatives in the field of security, of course within the framework of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Mr. Pivin asked about the work of the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee (ISCC). Along with the National Security Council (NSC), it is correct, Mr. Pivin, that the CSRC ensure essential follow-up. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has approved a national/national security strategy. This is the first time in our country's history that the national strategy aims to develop a true culture of security in which increased awareness of risks and threats is linked to safeguarding our interests. All governments and bodies of the NSC will be responsible for its implementation. The government has adapted and updated the regulations for the operation of the CSRC and the NSC. He decided that the CWB (Center for cybersecurity Belgium) would now be a permanent member of the CRS. The CRS is indeed the operational arm of the CNS. It is an assembly of all heads of intelligence and security services in our country and is chaired by the federal prosecutor. The CSRC meets periodically, once a month, and ad hoc meetings are also convened on a regular basis. Of course, reports are drawn up on these meetings. I think I can say that the cooperation between the CCRS, the Strategic Intelligence Committee and the NSC is going well. It is a fundamental pillar of our security policy and important decisions concerning our security policy are prepared and taken in these fora. I'm coming to back up the VSSE. The fact that, unfortunately, the administrator-general has been temporarily suspended for medical reasons is, of course, no reason or excuse to delay the current evolution of the VSSE. By the way, with Mrs Bostyn as administrator-general ad interim and Mr Petry as deputy, I think that the VSSE is in good hands to meet the many challenges. However, I would like to take this opportunity once again to pay tribute to Mr Jaak Raes, a civil servant avant la lettre. I come to Mrs Dillen's question. Just this week, we discussed a bill with the Defence colleague in the Justice Commission to give the VSSE and ADIV more room for manoeuvre on the Internet, but also in the real world. This is a direct consequence of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. The importance of this cannot be overestimated. The radicalisation process, with the development of a network by potential terrorists, often takes place on social media. In recent years, this phenomenon has largely shifted to secret groups on encrypted platforms, such as Telegram. In order to gain access to these secret rooms, our security services must be able to gain the trust of their targets. Here they often collide on the limits of what is permitted by law. That is the purpose of this bill. Let me give you some concrete examples. The use of extremist or hateful language should allow acceptance in certain fora, for example, in order to gain more insight into the recruitment of potential terrorists. If the infiltrator wants to join a small circle that shares online propaganda, he or she has to gain confidence by sometimes sharing something. At present, this is punishable and therefore not permitted. When a known potential terrorist informs online about the beliefs of the infiltrator, he must be able to say that he is on the same side to maintain his information position. After all, the risk of the target cutting the bond of confidence is real and the possible consequences are very high. Of course we don't give carte blanche. A priori, such a technique must be supported by the BIM Committee, the body consisting of three magistrates, and a subsequent check by the Committee I. Furthermore, last year we started with a substantial strengthening of the VSSE. I take this recommendation from the POC on strengthening intelligence services to heart by focusing on unprecedented growth. We're bringing the VSSE from six hundred employees to over 1,000. In doing so, we are following up the benchmarking of the number of agents per inhabitant in other countries. When I arrived there were over 583 employees at the VSSE, today there are already 747. So we're on our way to getting 1,000 employees in the VSSE. This growth must allow us to face the many threats which are growing and growing in today's world against our national security. In addition to terrorism, there is an increasing threat of espionage, extremism and clandestine interference in our decision-making processes. There is also the need to protect our scientific and economic potential. In this context, I would also refer to the important decision taken this week by the Consultative Committee on the protection of our economic potential and the screening of investments from abroad. The VSSE launched the growth curve this year. Of course, it is not just about quantity, but also about quality. It is about the right, qualified staff who are well-formed and precisely framed. In response to questions from Messrs. Pivin and Aouasti and Mrs Dillen, I would point out that, in addition to its initial budget, the State Security can benefit from budgetary increases granted through a multi-annual interdepartmental provision decided in 2021. This budgetary strengthening follows two main lines. One is granted to allow the renewal of the institution's ICT support for an amount of EUR 31 880 000 for the years 2021-2024. These resources are being injected to renovate the institution's operational ICT infrastructure and to allow for scalable and corrective maintenance, as well as to hire research and development staff. The other aim is to increase its staff by EUR 42 690 000 for the same years. The above-mentioned staff strengthening is intended to cover the needs of all directorates and services, whether they are operational, analytical or support services. Because there is such strong growth, the VSSE also needs a new building. At the end of 2021, the government created a new building to house a modern intelligence service. This opportunity is, of course, also a challenge for the VSSE. The security and IT needs of this service are different from those of most other administrations. A project-based approach and close consultation with the Government of the Buildings are the keys to achieving this move, which is planned for 2025. Finally, there is the computerisation and the new research model of the VSSE. This calendar year the Atlas project will be delivered. Then the VSSE will be able to process large volumes of digital information with a professional case management system, in order to manage the threats against national security with a well-thought-out methodology. What's the risk? Is the intel credible? Are there any concrete elements that will enable the service to work? How likely is it that the threat is developing? These are the questions to which our intelligence service should be able to provide a well-founded and accurate answer. Why are we doing this? Why are we investing in our civilian intelligence? Because, like the Committee of Inquiry, we are convinced that a strong intelligence service is not a luxury, but a necessity. That is an important priority for me. I am convinced that Mrs Bostyn, administrator-general ad interim, is putting her full weight on the important shipyards currently under way at the VSSE. I have every confidence in her, in Mr Pétry and in the whole team that is active. In response to Mr Pivin's question, I can tell you that we are actually working on a single statute for both the intelligence services and the OCAM. The Crisis Centre joined them. A working group had been set up for that purpose and it met almost every week. You are aware that aligning different statutes with each other to achieve a single status is not an easy exercise. But as far as we are concerned, I can confirm that the technical preparations are at an advanced stage. Questions were also asked about cooperation between the VSSE and ADIV, including by Mr Pivin and Mrs Dillen. Indeed, a national intelligence steering plan was drawn up in 2018, which for the first time mapped out the cooperation between the VSSE and ADIV. In the first steering plan, the focus was mainly on counter-terrorism cooperation. A common platform was established in which ADIV employees work in the VSSE buildings, with access to all data. In the meantime, I've also visited that platform CT. Another concrete example of cooperation is a common filament capacity. A team, composed of specialised members of both services, carries out shadow assignments of both the VSSE and ADIV. In the short term, additional platforms will be set up to ensure such enhanced cooperation for other themes as well. These synergies will be described, validated and operationalised following a second National Strategic Intelligence Plan. This new intelligence steering plan will be submitted to the National Security Council for validation. In the Conings case, there has not been any problem at any time with the communication between the two services. Both before, during and after the incident, the VSSE immediately and fully shared all its information with its military colleagues. The Committee I's post-incident investigation has also confirmed this. In no way has it been found that any lack of communication between the VSSE and ADIV could have led to the Conings affair. The recommendations of the Committee I are taken into account in this respect, but the recommendations mainly concerned the functioning of ADIV, and much less OCAD and the VSSE. I have a number of questions about the OCAM that have been put to me by Messrs. Pivin and Aouasti, as well as Mrs Dillen. There is no need to go back to the amendment of the OCAM Act. This law was recently passed in Parliament. As far as the staff of the OCAM are concerned, the budget of this body falls under the Internal SPF. OCAM will be strengthened by the arrival of nine new full-time employees. These reinforcements are essential because the challenges facing the OCAM are constantly increasing and increasing. The new OCAM law, which was passed in Parliament a few weeks ago, must therefore strengthen its capacity. Since the Royal Decree of 29 May 2018, the OCAM staff framework may vary from 76 to 108 staff members. This change allows it to be more responsive and to speed up the process of new recruitment when needed. There are different categories of staff at L-OCAM: analysts, experts and administrative staff. Part of this staff is charged to the OCAM budget. The other party shall be seconded from the various support services. Recruitments and secondments of support services are always carried out on the basis of the functional profiles drawn up according to the different needs of OCAM. As I said, recruitment procedures are currently under way to recruit nine new staff, including operational file managers and specialized attachés. Mrs. Dillen raised a question about the building. During last year's budget conclave, the government has indeed decided to house the Crisis Centre and OCAD under the same roof. This choice is in line with the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which stated that OCAD should remain independent of the Crisis Centre, but that synergies between the two services were indeed possible. These synergies, in terms of logistics and management, can of course be facilitated by this cohabitation. The relocation of the Crisis Centre is already planned for next year and that of OCAD will follow. With regard to the Common Data Bank (CDB), a more modern and user-friendly version was launched earlier this year. In addition to the technical optimization of the database, a project is also under way to improve its regulatory framework, providing, among other things, a direct legal basis rather than a regulatory basis under the Police Function Act, as is currently the case. This could also be an opportunity to include in this Act measures that can be taken with respect to entities in the BDC. For the time being, with the integration of potentially violent extremists (EPVs) and the person convicted of terrorism (PCTs) in 2020, and the other categories, Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTFs), Homegrown Terrorism Fighters (HTFs) and Hate Propagandists (PHs), each "problematic" entity in terms of extremism/terrorism can be taken up in the BDC, regardless of the ideological "trend" that motivates the individual in question. This is of course only after an investigation by the services and after an assessment of the threat made by the OCAM. A sui generis law on the BDC in connection with one of the recommendations of the POC is being prepared. The aim is to streamline and optimize the legal framework, including possible measures. The new law also intends to "de-ideologist" the FTF category which is currently reserved for the phenomenon of jihadism, as we have lived for several years with the departures of Belgian citizens. In the future, it should be possible to resume as a FTF, each entity travelling abroad in order to join a terrorist group, which comes back from such experience or is intended to join such an organization, without this being reserved solely for the sphere of jihadism. The common database brings me, of course, to the recommendation on the Crossroads Bank Security. My colleague from the Interior also explained this last week. I shall speak on two matters myself. Firstly, I have always said that the Crossroads Bank is not an end in itself, but a means. The aim is, of course, a good information sharing. Any information must be available to him or her who needs it at all times. In this respect, we have made great strides forward in recent years, and you know this. The updated and comprehensive common database responds to the philosophy of information sharing. In the long term, the GGB could be opened up and connected to other databases. That's the idea of my colleague from the Interior. I support her in that. Secondly, there is one condition sine qua non. Such a system must be sufficiently secure. Mrs Dillen has asked a question about this. In 2021, the government released an important budget for the development of a Belgian secure communications network. The existing secure communication network is outdated and cumbersome and no longer meets the needs. We Justice, in cooperation with other partners, are currently fully engaged in the development of that system. It will allow the security services to communicate with each other in a safe and secure manner. I do not need to convince you of the need for such a system, which is crucial for our internal security. The system will in any case also be used to allow information to circulate between the services in a safe way, with the guarantee that there will be no uninvited guests reading or listening. More than ever, the security of our internal security must be a prerequisite. So this investment won't come too soon. Mr Pivin, with regard to cooperation between the VSSE and the Federal Police, at the legal level, the following documents are being validated by the Coordination Committee of the Integrated Police: - Royal Decree on the direct access of intelligence and security services to the General National Bank; - Memorandum of Understanding between the State Security and the Police on the functional and technical modalities of direct access to the BNG; - procedural agreements concerning the transmission of data and information from the VSSE to the police in the context of direct access. They have been validated by the Federal Police Steering Committee and the VSSE. They will soon be sent to the controllers. At the technical and functional levels, tests on direct access are currently being carried out with the State Security Agency. It should be noted that direct access by the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) to the BNG will also be implemented as soon as access with the State Security has been established. The draft memorandums of understanding with the State Security provide that the information exchange processes will be evaluated annually, so as to identify possible problems and shortcomings and thus be able to make the necessary corrections in order to optimize the relationship between the two services. The Joint Information Center (JIC) and the Joint Decision Center (JDC), which were established in Brussels, and the fora counter terrorism in Liège, Charleroi, Ghent and Antwerp, of course respond to this philosophy to cross information. A recent evaluation of the current JIC and JDC work in the Brussels Appeals Court was carried out by the Attorney General of Brussels. The Attorney General of Brussels has also made a proposal to broaden this effect to the other courts of appeal. This proposal was recently discussed for the first time at the level of the Information and Security Coordination Committee. We now have good structures and good culture. In all honesty, and without wishing to bring the debate down here, I am not yet convinced that we need five JDCs in our country, but we will wait for the further discussion in the coordination committee. The JIC and JDC system has become an effective system for effectively coordinating the actions of the intelligence services and the judiciary in potential terrorist offences. I come to the questions of Mr Vajda and Mrs Rohonyi, ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that amendments to the law to adapt the scope of articles 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation and article 19/1 of the Act of 30 November 1998 are not necessary, but although coordination mechanisms have been developed after the attacks to establish structural coordination between these two components, allowing for gradual progress. There were questions from Mr Pivin and Mrs Dillen about the prosecutor's office and the federal prosecutor's office. With regard to the permanent research capacity at the federal prosecutor's office, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry confirmed the existing structure of the integrated police. In the womb of the Committee of Inquiry, there were discussions as to whether there should be a separate capacity for the federal court, a kind of GPP, a judicial police reinvented, but in the end that track was not walked. In the meantime, I have explained several times in the committee of inquiry management in recent weeks. A methodology was recently added to this which allows the comparison of the pressure on the research capacity between the different FGPs and the adjustment of available capacity. I refer, for example, to the strengthening of the FGP Antwerp in the context of the Sky ECC dossier. That does indeed work and the percentage share foreseen for the federal prosecutor's files is thus realised. I now turn to Mr Pivin's question about the reports. In addition to the initiatives mentioned in Mr Pivin's question concerning COL 10/2018 and COL 11/2013, the I+Belgium database has been developed and has been given a legal basis. This database is being improved and transitioned to JustSignal. As from 20 January 2020, the College of Attorneys General issued guidelines for the use of this IT platform via the COL 3/2020. It greatly improves the communication between the judicial authorities, the police and the courts concerning persons released or released under conditions. These exchanges of information concern not only the legal situation of these persons, but also the incidents that may arise as part of their follow-up. I now come to the questions about prison policy and the execution of sentences, including Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Pivin. Of course, this is also a subject that is discussed weekly in the Committee on Justice. I am concentrating on the questions related to the work of the Committee of Inquiry, namely terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. First of all, questions have been asked about statistics and figures, about the number of released. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put these questions in writing. You know that we come a long way when it comes to a policy of radicalisation in prisons. My predecessor has already made a number of important points. The first point is eyes and ears in prison. Our intelligence is present in prison and is working with the prison system. Secondly, there is the cooperation of the prison system with the security services. The prison system also became a support service of the OCAD and is an important partner in the common database. Thirdly, there are disengagement projects, together with the Communities and the justice houses. Fourthly, there is a good flux from intra to extra muros, and vice versa, including through the common database, in order to ensure the follow-up after release, conditionally or after punishment, as accurately as possible. We have further developed, further professionalised and structured this policy. A structured approach to radicalisation requires intensive cooperation between prison services, Community services and other public and private services. This is indeed an important recommendation from the Council of Europe and the parliamentary committee of inquiry, among others. A number of general cooperation agreements have already been drawn up and laid down in the joint letter for a global approach to violent radicalisation and extremism and terrorism. The letter contains the main pillars of enhanced cooperation between the prison system and the Communities' services and clarifies by pillar who contributes which. In particular, it also determines when the Justice Department can be involved in the preparation of the reintegration of the detainees. The overall objectives of the joint letter are, firstly, to manage the radicalisation problem within the prison walls and, secondly, to establish, where possible, a disengagement pathway at individual level and to ensure that what is initiated or prepared during the detention process can continue beyond the detention period. The Communities and the prison system each on their side continue to work out the operationalisation of this letter. It is in this context that pilot projects have also been set up around the so-called PIVCs, the penitentiary integral safety cells. That's about four satellite prisons in our country. In accordance with Article 458b of the Criminal Code, we obtained the permission of the College of Attorney General. With regard to the legal framework for these comprehensive prison security cells, Mr Pivin, the draft cooperation agreement on the establishment is currently under discussion between the judicial authorities and those of the federated entities. There are many conceptual, legal, ethical and practical issues, which require extensive discussion of the draft text before a signature can be reached for all the entities concerned. Despite this, as I have just said, the pilot projects are being implemented in four institutions: Brugge, Gent, Andenne and Lantin. A first meeting has already been held in these four prisons. I think it is important to clarify once again the three-track policy that is being pursued in prisons with regard to the so-called terrogated prisoners. Everything, of course, starts with a good risk analysis of the radicalised people involved, so that the risk can be correctly assessed. This risk profile is determined with the other security services: the VSSE, the OCAD and the federal police for the persons in the GGB. The OCAD has a specific programme, ROOT 37, which is scientifically supported. The OCAD also employs two psychologists. It is no secret that many extremists or terrorists have psychological problems. The psychosocial service of the prison (PSD) will then proceed to a profile determination. The aim of this profile is to identify the criminal needs, attitudes and desire and motivation to work on them, in order to achieve the main and priority intervention objectives in the dossier. On this basis, it is decided which prison the prisoner ends up in and, in consultation with the Community service, what offer is best suited to the prisoner. This could be an offer in the normal prison, the first track, a transfer to a satellite prison, the second track, or a detention in the Deradex wing, the third track. Allow me to tell you more about these three tracks. I'll start with the first lead. The basis is a preventive policy based on standardisation and distribution across prisons throughout the country. In concrete terms, this means that these prisoners are integrated to the maximum extent that the radicalisation process is considered to be manageable. The integration of that group of prisoners into the ordinary prison departments also ensures that their behaviour can be observed and that action can be taken in good time, if necessary. As for the second track, in four pilot prisons, Bruges, Ghent, Lantin and Andennes, satellite operation has started. Disengagement is being developed in these prisons. The satellite prisons are not considered as a transition stage to a Deradex department or, vice versa, as a mandatory passage when leaving such a department. They have a stand-alone finality. The offer in these satellite prisons will affect different domains, both on disengagement and on the attitudes of resistance to society. Modules in which prisoners can participate are being worked on according to the needs identified during a prior, specific evaluation. This is a combination of group activities and individual guidance, making connection to the regular offer as soon as possible. It is clear that the Community's partners have an undoubtedly important role to play in this respect, with a view to a motivating and motivating approach. I'm on my way to the third track now. Finally, where necessary, containment is applied to the Deradex departments for ideological hardliners, to prevent active recruitment and to prevent other prisoners from getting infected with thought. Containment remains the exception, since as far as possible integration is always sought within the regular operation. At the moment we see that there are few new candidates for the Deradex departments in Hasselt and Ittre. However, this does not mean that the prison system will leave the containment concept. There are currently no further terroged inmates in the Deradex department in Hasselt's prison. In Ittre there are four more. The concrete organisations with which the federated entities work are of course different, but the finality is the same. The multiple activities will focus on the themes of resilience and living together. For the North and South regions, the topics are similar, but the specific offer obviously depends on the partner organisations. For the South region, the CAPREV, Centre d'Aide et de Prise en charge de toute personne concernée par les Radicalismes et Extremismes Violents, were working together to shape the programme. With regard to the training of prison staff on the subject of radicalization, the local management has appointed a safety and security coordinator for each of the four pilot institutions. This is a function assigned to a member of the prison management, who will be responsible not only for the holding of the cell, but also for various tasks related to the security of the prison and thus of its occupants - the inmates as well as the staff. In recent years, all employees have benefited from training tailored to their profile. This ranges from specialized training, such as that of employees of psycho-social services on test batteries, to the training of directors and staff of the DERADEX sections, to e-learning courses for all employees. New training is also planned for the next few years (including an updated e-learning module) to keep staff knowledge up to date. The rate of participation in e-learning courses is very high, especially in prisons where many prisoners are placed for terrorism. Mrs. Dillen had a question about the Islam consultants in prison. Every candidate for the position of paid Islam consultant must satisfy, inter alia, the following conditions: to hold at least a bachelor's degree, to have sufficient religious knowledge, to have a diploma or proof of language knowledge; to have sufficient authority in the region in which he or she wishes to perform the duties; to have no criminal record; to pass the written and oral examinations organised by the EMB and the Council of the Theologians; to succeed in the medical fitness examination carried out by the penal establishment and undertake to participate in the study days, meetings and training organised or recognised as part of the mission of Islam consultant. After a job interview and a recruitment examination, the candidate Islam consultant in question is proposed to the FPS Justice for screening. After a positive opinion, after a safety screening, and after getting an NVO-attest, you can appoint the candidate and get started in the desired penitentiary facility. I have received several complaints over the past few months about the functioning of the EMB on that point. A total of 17 full-time Islam consultants are working in Belgian prisons. The following topic concerns religious communities. Quite a few questions have been asked, by Mr Vajda, Mr Pivin, Mr Metsu and Mr Dillen, about the recognition of the religious communities and the recommendations of the Muslim Executive and the Great Mosque. The Committee of Inquiry's recommendations on this matter were crystal clear. The attacks and the work of the Committee of Inquiry have opened our eyes to the dangers of religious extremism and to the fact that this danger is present here with us. Good work has already been done by the previous government and in particular by the former Minister of Justice in implementing the recommendations. Think of the Great Mosque in Brussels and the cancellation of the concession with the Saudi Republics. We'll build on that. As far as the Belgian Muslim Executive is concerned, it is a secret to no one that the functioning of this body which is supposed to be representative is particularly problematic. Of course, I recognize the principle of freedom of religion, but it is a state-funded organization. You are aware that I have issued three notices of formal notice and that a procedure for withdrawing recognition is under way. Since I do not want to compromise this procedure in any way, you will understand that I will not give more details today. Mr Metsu, I can say that the elections have been postponed again. For me, there can be no election according to the principles of the electoral charter distributed by the EMB in February. We had an exchange of views on this matter in the Justice Committee a few months ago. I thought we agreed on that. I'm already guarding that line. The problems with the Belgian Muslim Executive obviously affect the drafting of the recommendations. Our security services ensure the supervision of the recognized mosques, as agreed in the framework of the circular of 20 July 2017 on the supervision of the faith communities. I am not telling you a secret when I say that the federal services, the Security of the State and OCAD, have in the meantime established good contacts with the Flemish information and screening service. These services will not run into each other. On the contrary, complementarity is being developed. The recognition of local communities is a regional competence and is supported by the federal government for the security advice. The local community shall submit an application for recognition to the EMB. The EMB shall submit this application to the regional government. In turn, the regional government will request a security advice from the federal government. The security advice, positive or negative, shall be forwarded by the Minister of Justice to the regional minister. The regional minister decides whether or not to recognise the local community. We are working with the regional authorities to update the 2008 cooperation agreement. The uncertainties of a negative safety advice are eliminated and adapted to the needs and realities of the area. The interministerial consultation, which took place on 14 December 2021, was the starting point for this mission. My cabinet and the competent regional cabinets are working on the chalk lines. Simultane will also be asked to bring their input and improvements to the security partners concerned. The 2017 circular will also receive an update. It is the ideal opportunity to provide a new structure that will reduce the existing gap between local faith communities, local authorities and security services. I have already received valuable proposals from the OCAD. Next week I will have a discussion with the Security of the State where it will also provide input and proposals for adjustments. A new letter will be drawn up on this basis. The recognition of the Grand Mosque of Brussels can only be achieved when a newly elected team is involved in the Muslim executive. Mr Dallemagne, you have asked me about the recommendation regarding the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU). Various measures have been taken to strengthen the role of CTIF, which was already important in the fight against terrorism and its financing. Article 83(2) of the Act of 18 September 2017 allows CTIF to communicate information to intelligence services and OCAM, even if the CTIF does not have sufficient serious indicators of terrorist financing to transmit the file to the judicial authorities. Article 83, paragraph 1, does not apply to communications between CTIF and the State Security, the SGRS and the OCAM, in the context of combating the radicalisation process, terrorism, its financing and related money-laundering activities. Article 83 also allows CTIF to inform the Directorate-General of Prisons when a transmission to the judicial authorities concerns information for which it has provided information. CTIF could already question this Directorate-General. CTIF also has an obligation to feed into the common data banks, to which it has direct access. Where CTIF has transmitted information to the common data banks, all relevant information may be communicated to all services which, under that law or its implementing orders, have direct access to all or part of the personal data and to the information included in those common data banks. This information may be used by these services only for the purposes for which they have access to the common data banks. In addition, on 25 May 2022, the law transposing Directive 2019/1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of certain criminal offences was also published. In order to facilitate the detection and prosecution of large-scale criminal offences, such as money laundering or terrorist financing, law enforcement agencies must have rapid access to financial information from other Member States. For example, the exchange of information with CTIF and the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation (OCSC) was facilitated. From now on, CTIF will be able to exchange information directly with EUROPOL. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. That was my review, with an answer to most of the questions you've asked. I am aware that there is no reason for complacency, not from the point of view of the safety of our citizens, and certainly not from the point of view of the victims. In addition to the initiatives already taken, we will make every effort to ensure that the assistance process to the attacks of 22 March 2016 is as successful as possible, especially for the victims and their families. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u2	As agreed, Members can intervene according to the size of the group. I see that there are several Members from only two groups. If you would like to give a more detailed explanation, please allocate the speaking time so that everyone can be heard. I shall allow those Members to speak in turn. The maximum speaking time is about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u3	Madam President, I would like to answer your question immediately. Mr Metsu and I will speak in the current round. We will try to remember the time limit you have given us. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would also like to thank Members for being very critical about this. This is, of course, the debate on too much information. You have a cartload of information here, which is good in itself. It's a pleasure for you to do that, I mean it. However, there is much more. We need to freshen up the committee's memory. The story began in October 2020, when we received a comprehensive document that was hanging together with hooks and eyes and that was unworthy as a result of that magnificent committee. One of the most captivating moments was the visit we made to France with the Committee of Inquiry. I had the opportunity to chat with the French prosecutor for more than two and a half hours about what went wrong. That was a special moment for me. You gave a huge amount of information here today. However, the October 2020 document was not good. We agreed on this quite quickly. They then evolved to the March 2021 document. That was a compilation list, which is quite summing up, but I shall now come straight to my first point, which also shows that there is no synergy and no coordination. There's no priority either. I challenge you with a quiz question. Tell me, from all points of view, where you have worked with a colleague, where this cooperation has actually resulted in real results. I have a huge feeling of déjà vu with the debate on the FGP, which we will be discussing in a few weeks' time. There's not enough coherence. I can illustrate that with the LIVCs, a useful tool. We know from the LIVCs that they work in Flanders, in Brussels too, but not in Wallonia. If you think it's gonna stop there, I don't think that's the right vision. We were lucky to have Mrs Marion Van San in the LIVC cockpit on a local level. I can tell you that the LIVC in the city centre of which I may be mayor really works well and is therefore an enrichment. I do, however, miss the coherence, synergy, coordination and prioritisation. I would also like to know what the priorities in that new document are, in fact, in that new list. It remains very quiet about that. The second point I would like to discuss is the victims, which Mr Metsu will deal with further later. I believe that the value of a rule of law can be derived from respect for the victims. We all agree that this is quite problematic in this dossier, with which I still put it mildly. Each member of the Committee of Inquiry remembers the particularly painful moments when victims came to testify. That was captivating. Because we couldn't help those people, we felt almost a slight shame to be a politician. That's what crawled into our clothes. It's all a little too little, too late. Allow me to put that level of victimisation, where zero stands for a person who has received absolutely nothing and has not been reimbursed, either financially or morally, and a hundred stands for a person who has been fully compensated for the disadvantage suffered by him or her. In this dossier, we are afraid to note that one third of the victims have not yet been compensated. There may be reasons for this and efforts have already been made, but that remains an absolutely generic problem. A lot of decisions have already been taken, but between the number of 1,650 files and 1,018 decisions I hope I have correctly understood these figures, there is still a huge gap for which we need to find a solution. My third point, which is much more important, is about the process. You're getting a little light about it and you think it's gonna be okay. The process of the century has always been mentioned in the middle of assassins. Every year there is a process of the century somewhere, for assistants it is customary to call one's own business the most important of the year. I think we can agree that a very important procedure is now coming. We're really going to stay hungry. Will you do anything? Is there going to be anything that makes Justice faster, more human and more efficient? What are you gonna do? You want to send the jurors to the deliberations room with 30,000 questions of guilt. I have the disadvantage, or the advantage, of having experienced an assist myself a few times. The number of cassation procedures following the few assistive procedures is huge, much higher than after normal criminal proceedings. Because so much could go wrong. A lot of things could go wrong. I have full confidence in the people of the magistrate who will take on the commitment to effort, but it is a superhuman effort that can never succeed. This is being recorded. It's never gonna be okay. It will cost EUR 20 million, and that may be an understatement. In the beginning, there were 900 people involved. It's probably gonna be more. I think you're actually lacking. You mentioned a number of meetings. You mentioned the relay rooms and all the technical means. Very well, but about your procedural refinement, your legislative initiative, your modernisation, making the punishment more efficient and human, it remains deafeningly silent. This isn't gonna end well. You were a little indignant when I said in a previous intervention that this could be the bankruptcy of justice. So I'm gonna pry my words today and weigh them up. However, I believe that a strike of payment is coming. Do you know what that means, 30,000 questions? None of the jurors are allowed to make any mistakes. I don't think anyone among us has passed an exam with 30,000 questions without making mistakes. Material misfires can be sufficient. I don't know how you see these people being protected. Frédéric Van Leeuw said that here on a Tuesday in February 2020, and then he went to The Seventh Day on Sundays. He repeated that there. I think we should listen to Frédéric Van Leeuw. People don't ask anyone on the street to operate. However, you are going to ask the modal citizen who is being looted to carry out a high-tech operation. Do you have any idea how much responsibility you will have as Minister of Justice if that derails? That will not only be national, but also international. What will you do to change that procedure and what legislation will it possibly be incorporated into or hidden in? Will that be in a bill containing various provisions? Is there going to be anything out there or isn't there going to be anything at all? I will conclude, so that Mr Metsu has the same speaking time. The Committee of Inquiry had brilliant experts. I'm thinking Willy Bruggeman and Professor Vermeulen. They have done a wonderful job. Everyone agrees on that, but I am sorry that you are doing very little about it. The topic of Willy Bruggeman was the Crossroads Bank Security. From what you've said, I'm not sure it's gonna happen. Am I wrong and she's coming? When's it gonna happen? We have talked about a lack of a comprehensive vision and strategy, increasing infobesis, a proliferation of databases, insufficient analysis capacity, the RIRs and RACs in the Security Committee. What else will you do about it? There is also religious vigilance. I am sure that Mr Metsu will perhaps want to say something about that. After all, you leave a lot of things untapped. There are some legislative proposals from the N-VA that fit perfectly into this booth, for example on extending the scope of the provision of the criminal execution court for a number of terrorist offences. Another gap is that you have not said anything about the involvement of local authorities and there is also the big question of how you will handle the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u4	Minister, you say that you belong to many victims with genuine recognition. May I say, in turn, that we are very concerned about the fate of the victims of terrorism? I come back to these three pillars very often because there is little movement in those yards. The first yard is the administrative and psychological care. It's true that the victim association managed to form three fantastic profiles. I was allowed to meet them and it's unbelievable what they're up to. At the moment, they are abetting 146 victims of terrorism. We have just received the figure of 1,645 files submitted. This means that more than 6 years after the date, less than 10% of those victims are taken care of administratively, let alone psychologically - for example with PTSD. That's poignant. I am very glad that you say that we should not be complacent, because there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. The second yard is the guarantee fund. On 18 March 2021, day before the five-year commemoration of the terrorist attacks by Zaventem and Maalbeek, you said that there would be no guarantee fund to compensate the victims of terrorist attacks. Now I hear you saying that something would still come. What that would be is still a little unclear. Is it just for victims who don't have insurance? I'd like some clarification. What I have understood is that the victims of 22 March 2016 will fall out of the boat. The third yard is the trial. It's your federal attorney who said yesterday that such a trial shouldn't come before assists. He's absolutely right. That is what we argued for years ago. N-VA and Open Vld had a bill to depart from an ordinary jury and go to a correctional or a professional jury. The day you became Minister, the signature of Open Vld was removed from our bill. That's incomprehensible. Furthermore, you say that you are best proud of this process. You talk about unique audio and video systems, transmission, rooms and a web radio, but what you forget is that victims are people and not machines. An ordinary citizen's jury and the victims will have to deal with more than 30,000 questions of guilt for a year. How can we do that to them? You also said: "IS est la menace principal." Yet you do your utmost to repatriate those who glorify terror. You don't save money or trouble. The new rescue mission of la menace head is in the docks, Minister. All we are asking is for you to implement without delay what this Chamber approved a few years ago, in particular this report. Everyone approved this. You approved this as a Member of Parliament. Please be consistent with yourself. Respect this House, but above all, respect the victims of terror.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u5	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your briefing. He's been intense. He was quick. I pay tribute here at the same time to the interpreters who have had to try to follow you at certain times, but I do not accuse you. You were given an hour to answer more than 50 questions. It was anything but obvious. In any case, this is in the interest of the members of this committee. This interest is, of course, quite legitimate and equally important. Therefore, I confess that it is not easy to digest everything you have told us in a few minutes and it will be necessary to refer to the written report of this meeting. But with this written report and the March 2021 report, I think we will have a view that will not allow us to have a global view of the work but to be able to actually start the work that is very far from being completed. I'll be right back. I'm just going to focus on three themes so I won't be too long. The subject of victims, first of all, is obviously extremely important. In keeping with the March 2021 report, this is a theme that has been widely taken into account by your services, as out of 14 recommendations, 10 are finalized and 4 are under way. So it can be said that this is not so bad. You're announcing the upcoming tabling of a bill. I can only rejoice and say that there will indeed be a lot of work to be done. I hope that with regard to the arrival of the sittings trial, normally in September or next October, this bill can be finalized in due course. You have announced that you want to schedule a visit to the site of the Assize Court. I will of course respond with pleasure to this invitation. It will be an opportunity to see us and to discuss again the specific point of what is being done in favour of the victims. As my colleagues at the N-VA have just discussed, one of the very serious difficulties for the victims with regard to this trial will be its duration. Unless I'm mistaken, it wasn't very much developed in your speech. Beyond the legal aid which I hope will still be able to be implemented, set up and fulfil their role effectively, there is simply the fact that many of these victims have a professional life which may have to be put in brackets for many months. It is also an aspect of the difficulties to be solved. It should be considered whether practical assistance could not be provided to those victims. Still with regard to the victims, I have a question that I did not file for you in due course - or that was misfiled. I beg your pardon. It's not a trick question. The report stresses that the recognition and support of associations representing victims is a final recommendation, on page 63. However, the same report points out that only two associations are recognised and supported. I wanted to ask you if there was still room, despite the fact that this recommendation is considered finalized, for the recognition of new associations. I'm talking about it because the number of victims' associations is not limited to two. Several of them could still ask to be recognised and to do work that can be more than useful on the ground; I am thinking in particular of an association that I have had the honour of meeting very recently here at the Parliament's premises, the association "Let's get back from the link". This association no longer wants to define itself as an association of victims but as an association of people who become actresses again in their struggle. It presents this very beautiful aspect: it brings together families of victims of the attacks in the sense that we hear it with the parents of the perpetrators of these attacks. In this, I find this association superb. Terrorism has two horrific consequences. It is first of all the terror it inspires. This is the immediate consequence. The second consequence is that this terror separates peoples and wants to oppose them. It wants to oppose the communities that live together and are sometimes neighbouring, as here in Brussels, for example. This association does the opposite because it brings together people who are sometimes mistakenly considered to be on both sides of the barrier, but who are themselves victims. So my question was: is there still room for recognition of other associations of victims? The second issue that I would like to address quickly is the issue of legislative recommendations. You quickly moved on to the question I asked and I am not sure I understood the answer correctly. I asked why the recommendations on the legislative amendments to article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation and article 19/1 of the Act of 30 November 1998 had not been complied with. Was it just a matter of time? It's possible. Are there any other reasons for blocking? I wish I'd heard you about that. You told me that the legislative amendment was necessary but that progress had been made in the meantime by organizing things on the ground in a concrete way. That is very good, but it does not answer the question of whether you intend to take this legislative initiative in the short or medium term under another bill. The last theme I wanted to address was that of cults. As you said yourself, the first threat to terrorism is Islamism, Islamic radicalism. The recommendations that have been least followed, if we continue to follow the March 2021 report, are the recommendations for worship, since only one recommendation out of seven is finalized. Be careful when I say that! I would like to make an important point. We must not confuse Islamism, which is radicalism and the threat to our country with Islam. Worship in itself is not a threat. We have to be careful to separate semantics because it's very important here. You had the honesty to tell us. If these recommendations are lacking in their implementation, it is because there are difficulties with the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. It's a fact. Unfortunately, we must take note of that. These difficulties are important, but the consequences of these difficulties can be even greater. I therefore understand your discretion on this matter. I'm not going to ask you for details or repeat my questions for you to answer. In any case, I would ask you to proceed with this with speed, I am sure, with conviction, also with the necessary caution. Indeed, beyond the difficulties that exist with the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the disappearance of the latter and the "abandonment" of the Muslim cult would be even more catastrophic, simply for the security of our country. Indeed, a lack of funding for this cult would lead him to seek funding elsewhere. Seeking its financing elsewhere would be in third countries and probably with risks, whether from countries or associations not particularly friendly with Belgium and its security, with all possible consequences in terms of espionage or terrorism. I won't be any longer, minister. I believe that there is a real need to see us again, on the one hand, because we parliamentarians must take on board what has been said and what will be written about our meeting today and, on the other hand, because the recommendations are still being implemented. There is an urgent need for all of them to be implemented, even completed, and for us to be able to take stock together on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u6	Madam President, a brief addition to my colleague's speech. Thanks for the report. What immediately struck me is that at the beginning, on page 6, we make an overview of all the recommendations in all categories: police, State security, OCAD and so on. It shows how many of these recommendations have been completed or are still ongoing, planned or not planned. If you look only at the figures and add everything together, you come up with 142 recommendations, 69 of which are finalized. That is less than half, more than six years after the attacks and just over four years after the report was adopted. The first committee of inquiry in which I was a Member of Parliament was the committee of inquiry into the failed fight against tax fraud, in 2008-2009. The Court of Auditors made an evaluation four or five years later. The figures will not have been much better then. Perhaps there is a structural problem. To some extent I can live with that when it appears that the objective or what one wants to achieve is being implemented or achieved, possibly by a different way from that suggested by the Committee of Inquiry. Ultimately, it is a question of solving a problem, and there may be other, or even better, solutions than the ones proposed. Maybe I'm a little tighter. After all, there are still 54 recommendations 'ongoing', and when all current cases are concluded soon, we arrive at a good percentage. I hope that doesn't take years. When I look at what is not planned, at the points where people say that this is not going to be done, most of it is in the State Security Department. There may be good reasons for deciding not to do something, but it is remarkable that these points are mainly there. I'll come back to that later. Our main concern, always been, also in the Committee of Inquiry, as my colleague has just mentioned, is the role of the victims. What we are doing today is actually figs after Easter. The government has collectively failed to take care of the victims in the first months, the first six months, the first year after the facts. We have failed collectively there. I am not blaming one or the other, we were simply not ready, as Belgium, as a Belgian State, as Justice, as a society. And we have not been able to set up the necessary structures and make decisions quickly enough to assist those victims, despite the good will and good work of individuals. I am also thinking of the Victims' Fund, where people have done all kinds of things on the basis of the legislation in force at the time. That's a big concern. I'm glad there's a bill in the pipeline from Minister Dermagne. But that is for the future, the victims experienced the facts six years ago. I believe that we have failed collectively there. However, this is more of a historical look back. Colleagues, the Committee of Inquiry was a very good and very interesting committee and I would like to go into a few more details, which have been for years for discussion. I'll start with the Joint Information Centers and the Joint Decision Centers. We discussed for a very long time what we were going to do with it. We have been inspired by what is happening in Britain. They've come to explain that to us. There are on a regular basis the services and persons involved together on Monday morning, to see what the current files are, intelligence services, police, Metropolitan Police as well as all other services. We are looking at who is doing what, what information we have, what information we are going to collect, whether we need to intervene, whether we are going to obtain further information before action is taken, when justice is going to intervene. That's a super interesting idea. We have tried to translate this into the Belgian model, because one cannot simply adopt a model. And apparently it works well in Brussels, because that is where it was installed immediately. Two years ago and three years ago, we asked why this is not being rolled out in the four other TERRO-FGPs. One has then chosen to do so by means of a kind of light version. When people look at the report, I don't always understand it as well. On page 12, in the chapter Police, it says that the project is ongoing, "not appropriate to implement in other courts of appeal." On page 17, it says it's finalized. It is the same recommendation, according to state security it is finalized, according to the police still ongoing. Finalized, because it has been finalised in one of the five PHPs. Same thing on page 20. So there is some lack of coordination in this report, because one finds it finalized and the other finds it ongoing. You have just said that, from the recent evaluation, certain services advocate broadening the operation. From this, I understand extending to the four other FGPs. The police don't think this is appropriate. I therefore think, above all, that there are different views within the services on how to deal with this. I would very much like to know, in a subsequent debate or later, what are the arguments of certain people or services not to extend it. If we are quite rightly satisfied with this in Brussels, then we must also bear these benefits in mind. You referred to the Conings case and said that the exchange of information between ADIV and State Security would have been in order. This is not only about exchange between intelligence services, but also about exchange with police and judicial data. In the Conings case, information was also present at both the intelligence services and the police as well as the prosecutors, where certain files that would be investigated were dropped. Didn't there miss opportunities to put all that information together? Wouldn't the existence of a Joined Decision Center or Information Center have been added value? We shouldn't just look at the terror we knew six years ago. Today we also know other phenomena for which such a structure can be useful for the exchange of information. Secondly, on page 28, we are talking about the intelligence services with care to work more together, jointly managing the platform for common services. There was a quick consensus on that. There were also slopes to merge the two services, but they did not achieve a majority. I wasn't in favour of that myself. One would try to do a number of things together. I read in the report that this is about the means of shadowing and the succession of counterterrorism on Belgian territory. That's, frankly, a little skinny. I did not submit the question in advance, but is that all those two services do together? I thought that there was a little bit more cooperation than just the two issues mentioned on page 28. I would like to end with a positive note that has not yet been mentioned, although we may, of course, be critical. We have also talked about FAST. One of the most interesting and impressive testimonies was that of Mr Van Steenbrugge of FAST, who explained how that service works to find perpetrators. They couldn't use a bomb, but they had to track people the old way. He set the example that FAST knew that someone might have a pregnant wife and could go to the gynecologist. Then FAST went to see when that person came in and went out, and so it could track that woman and see if she came into contact with the person concerned. So the old police techniques had to be applied to track people down. Real police work from the old days was that. I think they were six or seven people six years ago. Now you say there are 17 full-time equivalents. It was a very explicit question to strengthen FAST. That is a positive development, because that service works and we sometimes see wanted criminals found, even abroad. I would like to emphasise that, because you have done far too little. I think that's a good thing. Mr Van Steenbrugge is now unfortunately retired and he will see it from the sidelines, but I think he will be satisfied. There's a second positive thing. We have had a very long discussion about what to do with the permanent research capacity of the federal prosecutor. Can the federal prosecutor simply claim capacity from the FGPs and in particular the Brussels FGP? Do we have to put together a separate team for that? We have decided not to do so, but to agree on certain rules so that the federal prosecutor can guarantee sufficient research capacity. This is also finalized and is a good thing, but the much broader problem of the capacity of the PHPs is being addressed here. That too, of course, is a stumbling block, but I think it is also positive that the recommendation that sufficient capacity should be made available to the federal prosecutor in one way or another without the creation of a separate police force has been met.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I am not going to be long because you have already said a lot about your presentation, during which you have provided many answers. Here the question is what we want and what we want. In fact, we are in a state of complementarity. As my colleague Van Hecke said, the attacks took place more than six years ago. The commission of inquiry lasted two years. Analysis reports date back to four years ago. Today, we are told how many recommendations have been implemented, how many are being implemented, how many have not begun and how many are planned. The state of the situation is what it is. It's an objective photograph. We can be satisfied with it or we can regret it. This can be deplored for some points because six years later a whole series of recommendations were not implemented, which at the time was not simply aimed at finding a solution to the attacks that had occurred, but at finding a solution to the potential attacks that might occur in our territory. So there were questions. If tomorrow we were to undergo an event of the magnitude of Maelbeek and Zaventem would we be operational enough to be able to respond to it? I have the impression that the answer cannot be very positive. It cannot be negative but not very positive. Therefore, in the state of the situation there is a work in progress on which we must focus. For the rest, and especially for the past, the attacks of 22 March 2016, issues have indeed been worked out. Funding requests exist at the level of the Federal Judicial Police. We know that police resources are being brought in for the time being. It is known that additional requests are being made. As the Minister has indicated, it is also apparent that additional reinforcements are coming at the AMCO level. At the level of State Security, recruitment is taking place and it is hoped that the target of more than 1,000 officers will gradually be achieved. We're still not there. Are there any progress? If so, it takes too long. Presumably. One question remains when you put yourself six years back. That's the question of the victims. Finally, what is done for them? There is, of course, a whole range of aid, whether it is the Fund to assist victims of intentional acts of violence or the possibility of receiving funding from lawyers and so on. However, it is clear from the echoes that have come to me and from the discussions that I have that, six years later, the Belgian State and all its components remain in deficit as regards the possibility for victims to obtain support at the judicial level, at the medical level or at the level of psychological or psychological health. Many victims are still too often left to themselves or oriented in a complex administrative maze, not to say anything else. It seems to have become even more complex with layers of royal or governmental decrees, federal or federated entities, which have come to graft each other and have therefore created rather complex layers of segmentation, and which sometimes make things difficult to read. I think it is our responsibility here, as a committee, to question these questions, these comments, these criticisms. I understand that money has been made available for the Fund to assist victims of intentional acts of violence, that there are solutions, that advances have been released, that a whole range of aids exist. I also understand that professional victims must be able to speak to the employer. However, according to the information that I have received, employers have unfortunately not organized themselves to offer their employees a whole range of psychological or psychological support and support, which they are in great need of. We should be able to check this and pay attention to it. I note that programmes have been put in place, in particular with coaches. In this regard, I would be interested in having an evaluation of it in the long term. Since the programme was launched this year, it is still too recent; I am fully aware of this. The long-term evaluation of this coaching, whether qualitative or quantitative, would make it possible to see whether the method works – what I wish and hope – or whether it is to be improved or expanded. Indeed, there are only three coaches for many victims. With regard to the victims of the attacks of 2016, work is still to be done quickly in a range of sectors to enable us to arrive – it is a wish – if we were to face other attacks – I do not wish – at a form of quasi-unconditionality of aid, if there is recognition of the status of victim, and not a fight or an administrative maze. For the rest, it is a state of affairs, a work in progress. Further implementation of the recommendations is required. Mr. Van Hecke returned to the issue of the Joint Intelligence Centers (JIC) and Joint Decision Centers (JDC), which had been claimed by the Board of Inquiry. I wonder how judicious an administration can be to implement recommendations made by Parliament. If she believes that this is not the case, she will come back before us to explain it to us. It seems to me particular that administrative decisions contradict – at least, in part – those that emanate from the political world, without them coming back to the latter again in order to be able to discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u8	Minister, I would like to thank you not only for your presentation, but above all for the report that you have submitted to us, which I believe is only my personal opinion, but I am presenting it as a model of methodology. A model of methodology that makes me think that we are a thousand light years away from the rebarbative brick we received last year: 620 pages, almost all unilingual, difficult to understand and extremely technical. This year, we witnessed a very nice exercise that you did in front of us. As a result, I will no longer ask you certain questions, since you have answered them in full or in part. In the second case, I will come back to that later, because I am not going to be busy this afternoon to go through all the details. I will also ask you written questions. Therefore, I will not ask you about the OCAM, DG PPE, circulars to the prosecutors general or cults. As far as State security is concerned, I shall limit myself to two or three questions. But before that, I will return to the introduction of your March report. My first question concerned the Intelligence Coordination Committee, which you mentioned, and concerned the number of reports and opinions that this Committee has already produced and, above all, the possible updates and frequency of updating. I can understand that it is difficult to answer precisely today. Therefore, I am already telling you that I will ask this question very clearly in writing. My second question on the exchange of information is still related to the introduction of your report, where you say, on page 4, that today we can talk about a real change of culture within the services and that information is shared through consultation bodies. I don't read everything you wrote. But I would still like to tell you here something that has come back to me. At present, the report of a dangerous person at risk of passing through the act that holds ten, fifteen or twenty weapons at home, whose weapons of war do not go back to the provincial governor, who has the authority to deprive that person of the weapons he holds. I say it because you have to learn the lessons from the Jürgen Conings case to the last line. Eight days ago, the Minister of the Interior quoted the case of Jürgen Conings saying that he reminds us that we must be vigilant every day and every moment. As a result, when I find out that a person who is reported to be dangerous with the risk of going through the act holds dozens of weapons at home, but the governor of the province in which that person resides is not informed and therefore has no possibility of going to confiscate all these weapons, even as a preventive measure, I think that the information may not yet be circulating enough today. I am not going into the details of this case, but I think there is room for further improvement in the flow of information. On the other hand, there may be a misunderstanding. I have not heard any answers to the various questions I have asked about the recommendations for the police. You said these questions should be forwarded to Ms. Verlinden. But they have nothing to do with her skills. They do fall within your jurisdiction, as we are talking about legislative changes that concern the Minister of Justice. I will not mention these questions here. But I would like your services to see them again in the light of the precision I have just provided. My requests are simple. I would like to know why you should add the words "unscheduled" in commenting on a recommendation we made in the committee. What alternatives have you developed? I asked four questions of the same type with regard to the police aspect. As Stefaan Van Hecke mentioned, we recommended the creation and promotion of the Joint Decision Centers (JDC) and the Joint Information Centers (JICs) for a recommendation on pages 12 and 13 of our report. Apparently, they exist only at the level of the Brussels Court of Appeal. Contrary to what I have heard today, you state in your report that: "In the current state of affairs, it does not seem appropriate to implement JDCs and JICs in other appeal courts." Today, you say that this is the subject of discussion. Could you give me more details on this? With regard to State security, my only questions related to social networks, since, according to a recommendation on page 31 of the report, "for several years now, the State Security has been constantly working to improve the know-how and tools for collecting information via social networks". I asked what were the results of this social network screening over the last two years and what were the exchanges that existed with the services of the other Member States as well as with the private companies that own the networks. I was also asking you about a recommendation on page 34 of the report, which deals with the lack of sharing and access to information with the sentencing court. This is a subject which has taken us on for a very long time also in the committee on attacks. It is noted that it is recommended that information be shared with the Penal Enforcement Court (PAT) in accordance with the procedures provided for that purpose. But you are replying that no separate mechanism has been developed to establish a direct link. I have not understood very well why this recommendation, which we consider important – otherwise we would not have made it – is still not followed today by a specific information procedure implemented between the intelligence services and the TAP. Finally, and it may be a little bit anecdotal, but there was a recommendation on page 35. It called for liaison officers in Belgian embassies in countries where close cooperation was needed in the fight against terrorism. I asked you what criteria were used to establish the list of countries in which a liaison officer is required, and I also asked you how many we have so far. I didn't hear you about that. I conclude with the main question. It's obviously the victims'. A lot has been done. I fully agree with the remarks made by my colleague Van Hecke on the fact that, in the first few months, we have collectively wailing in this area. We're probably still trying to make up for lost time. I have not heard any clarification from you regarding a recommendation we made on page 59 of your report. We wanted the victims to be able to speak to a reference person. If we read Life4Brussels' letter that goes back to your picture carefully, not all victims seem to have access to the one-stop shop. In any case, the victims of the attacks of 2016 do not have access to it. I would have wanted to know why it was not yet applicable to everyone. I was asking one last question about the victims. It deals with consultation with the orders of the bars. This is page 63 of your report. There was a commitment by the orders to establish a permanent special list for insurance lawyers. I asked if this list was effective today and how it was communicated. Minister, I would like to conclude with the following remark and suggestion. My comment is as follows. Christoph D'Haese was right to recall some of the retroacts and to say where we came from. The commission of inquiry produced a report. There was the 2021 report. In the meantime, we see that much has been done, but we also see that much remains to be done. I see above all that the trial is coming in five months. It will start on October 13 and it will, whether we like it or not, place Belgium in the eye of the media world as Paris has been. We will be under close attention in the coming months, in the light of what has been done and not done since the attacks in 2016. Minister, we all have responsibilities. The executive has it and you take it very well, we see it when we read the report that you have produced. Justice will have to do its job too in the coming months. Parliament must also do its job. I feel a little bit that as former members of the bombing committee, we may have a somewhat more important responsibility than others. Should we just meet once a year to discuss the measures and progress of the measures we have recommended to adopt? Shouldn't we go a step further? Madam President, I would suggest here that we hold hearings with the various actors who testified at the time of the commission of inquiry, whether they are victims, representatives of the State Security or the Attorney General, as Mr D'Haese said. I think we need to go a little further than the exchanges we have today. Minister, I appreciate the initiative you mentioned from the outset to visit the place where the trial will take place. Visiting is good, but auditioning is even better. That's the suggestion I'd like to make here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed presentation and the detailed summary document you have given us earlier. The date of 22 March 2016 is engraved in our memory. In some people, this literally causes permanent scarring. For others, it is figuratively a scratch on their souls. Although this is not the date of the first attack in our country, it is the date that brought us very close to terrorism. What took place that day has led to the setting up of a committee of inquiry in our Parliament which would look in depth at how we can encourage our society and our government to avoid such horrific facts in the future. We live in a democracy and a state of law with laws and rules, where every human being has fundamental rights. The terrorism we saw in Maalbeek airport and metro station on 22 March threatens these rights. For the Liberals, fundamental freedoms are always paramount. We are talking about the right to safety and physical integrity. If the government has one core task, then it is certainly protecting these basic rights. This was also one of the starting points of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which conducted an in-depth investigation into what could be better done in our systems, both in terms of assistance and the status of victims, security architecture and the fight against radicalism. The Committee of Inquiry has done thorough work, resulting in several reports containing more than 1,000 pages. More than 400 recommendations were also made for various services and authorities in this country. These recommendations were an important start, but of course this is not the end of the job. It is up to the various services and authorities to put them into practice as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. In order to ensure that no one would doze off, a follow-up committee was set up. Follow-up was then taken over by the various competent committees, including the Justice Commission. It's important to us to keep the finger on the wrist. I am therefore pleased to hear and read that so many of the recommendations made to your department are already being implemented. No words, no words, but deeds, that is typical of you and your policy. We therefore found the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry as a common thread in your policy statement. We see in the summary report that out of the 142 recommendations addressed to the Justice Department 69 are finalized, 54 are ongoing, 2 are planned and only 17 of those recommendations are not planned. My only question is why these 17 recommendations are not yet planned. However, let us take a positive approach, which means that 125 of the 142 recommendations to you and your services will be effectively implemented at the end of the journey. That's a good result. I thank you for the practical achievements that will ensure that our society will be much safer in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers to our questions and for this presentation. Many of my questions arrived rather late, and you could not refer to them, but they largely overlapped with those of my colleagues. Your presentation was very substantial, and I would like to thank you for that. It is always nice to see that answers are being given to Parliament on key issues that have been mobilising us for years. These terrorist attacks have obviously shocked our country in depth. However, I would like to go back to the remarks made by my colleagues, Pivin and Van Hecke. It is true that parliamentary follow-up to these recommendations remains complicated. Several times, I have made a proposal in the Conference of Presidents. You will remind us that it is Parliament itself that organises its work. However, you also influence such matters. I still don't understand. For example, you said you no longer really believe in the relevance of joint decision centers and joint information centers. There was also discussion of the nuances between several relationships. It would be interesting to discuss it again, particularly with the federal prosecutor. You yourself, when you sat as a parliamentarian, voted for this recommendation. Why did you change your mind? You show us your chief of staff, but I'm sure he agreed, since he was still at the manoeuvring at the time. These are essential subjects. Taking Parliament and its recommendations seriously does not prevent us from changing our minds, but we organise a debate and hear the different parties: the federal prosecutor, the magistrates, etc. This also applies to the Carrefour Bank, since you tell us that it is not an end in itself and that the essential thing is to exchange information - especially since we do it better than before. I am convinced that these exchanges have improved, but we also know that they still face several difficulties. What's the point of seeing each other again year after year? For years we have received roughly the same answers about joint decisions centers and joint information centers. The federal prosecutor recommended that they be extended to other appeal courts across the country. It's very good to know, but we've always known. Why isn't that done? What's blocking it? What makes it possible to set up counterterrorism forums today? What are these forums? This was not included in our recommendations. Why are we doing light formulas over there? In relation to this, I am coming back and I do not understand how colleagues who are a little concerned about the fact that all this is changing, do not come to the Conference of Presidents and do not support the idea of a monitoring committee. The idea is not to meet each other every week. We don't have to meet every week, but at least we have a horizontal vision. We can re-examine magistrates, police officers, civil society, if necessary, and we can see each other at a reasonable pace. We are all overwhelmed, but when it is necessary, once a month, when it is not necessary, two or three times a year, but at least we have serious work to follow up on our recommendations. I reiterate once again this request to set up a monitoring committee. I am well aware of my colleagues who are concerned that some recommendations are not being followed. We have a way, and I do not understand, and I did not get an answer, why this committee is not set up. Minister, we have to take what you're telling us for cash. I'm putting myself in your shoes. You're the Minister of Justice. You draw a picture that is generally very positive. Yes, you are the minister in charge of justice. You are not expected to say: "I have such a problem. I can't do this. I can't do that." You draw us a picture that is rather a slightly sweetened picture. I don't blame you for that. I just want other actors to give us their part of the truth. This one, we don't have it today. That was a general but important remark. Second thing, about the victims, minister, I hear what you're announcing. You are announcing a bill for victims who are not covered by insurance. That is not at all but not at all what was in the proposal of the recommendation of our committee of inquiry that you adopted. I quote the committee: "For the future, Belgium has a system which, instead of offering subsidiary aid which obliges the victim to apply itself to public or private bodies responsible for indemnifying him, provides for the creation of a fund which will be able to allocate aid and compensation to him as soon as possible, to recover what is owed by the insurance companies." We are not following at all this major, fundamental principle that is requested by the victims and you are going to have a very strong reaction from the associations of victims and also from me because if that is what you are presenting to us, it is not acceptable. That's not acceptable. I will not recall what my colleagues have said. Six years of abandonment! They talked about a few months but in reality, when we see the victims today, of course things have been done but many are still fighting for compensation and many still complain of not being sufficiently accompanied, of not understanding what is happening, of being stunned from one insurance to another. Many have been treated differently according to their insurance plans. It is known that the Maelbeek victims were not treated as the Zaventem victims. But we continue to work in this regime and that is not acceptable. This is not what is being done in other countries that face terrorism such as France or Spain. That is not what we have recommended. Frankly on this issue, I am really extremely disappointed - and I am weighing my words - with the proposal that is made six years later by the government, despite all the demands, despite everything that has been said, despite all the insistence that victims should not be re-victimized through a system that for them is Kafkai, where they are driven from one system to another. Since this is for the future, I would ask you to take into account the fundamental recommendation, let alone the fact that it will be a long time, of course, since we will first turn to insurance before addressing the Fund, that there will be ceilings, that these ceilings do not correspond to the reality of the costs that these victims will incur. We are still in a system that is totally, I think, apart from what had been proposed, apart from what is being asked for and outside what is legitimate and what the State can do. The state did it for other systems. The State does so for victims of medical misconduct, for victims of technological accidents, and for a range of other areas. Frankly, for terrorism, there is absolutely no justification for not setting up such a system. I'm not going to go back to the Carrefour Bank and the Joint Decision Centers, we talked about it. I would like to conclude quickly on the issue of worship. All sorts of comments have already been made by my colleagues on the evolution of radicalism and follow-up. There is one element that you have not mentioned at all, that is international cooperation. I think it is important to know how international cooperation in the fight against terrorism works today. A series of elements have been put in place. It would have been interesting to have your comments on the matter. You know that I worked on the case of Osama Atar. The French operated in Belgium in 2004 for the Atar case. We found out at the Paris trial. However, the Sûreté de l'Etat did not begin to know Osama Atar until 2006. So for two years, foreign intelligence services were operating in Belgium on a Belgian, who would become the brain of the attacks, without this information being passed on to the Belgian intelligence services. The Americans detained this Belgian national in Iraqi prisons and gave very little and very little information to the Belgian intelligence services on the case of Osama Atar. As much as I am severe about the shortcomings that have taken place in Belgium, there have been deficiencies abroad and a lack of international cooperation on essential elements. It would have been interesting to have your comments in this regard. These are some of the elements that I wanted to highlight here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u11	Mr Minister, thank you for your presentation, and for what is quite complicated work, that is to say, to report on what has been done or not in terms of following up on this report by the Commission of Inquiry Attentats. Finally, I stay a little on my hunger, especially on one side and I will come back to it. I also remain hungry about the honesty of the answers that could be given in this report. Indeed, some recommendations are presented as finalized, but they are not. I find this to be a lack of respect for the work done at the time. You say that recommendations will ultimately not be followed up, without justifying the reasons for this fact. If they were issued, there was a reason. We felt it was necessary at that time. You started your presentation in this way, explaining how the terrorist threat today remains a reality in Belgium. Therefore, that is why it is important for all of us to be able to learn from these attacks and to ensure that in the future we anticipate things and ensure that the victims are properly cared for. I therefore turn to the part I wanted to address. In this regard, it must be noted that I remain cruelly on my hunger. You have come back on a lot of tracks and you feel that there is a voluntarism on your side, but for the victims, the steps remain extremely complicated and burdensome while the role of the State was to support and simplify their lives. The victims now feel that they are once again victims. Minister, with regard to the one-stop shop, it was highly expected of them. You explained that a central window had been set up and that is probably why you are presenting this recommendation as finalized in your table. But the question is, what is the practicality of this window? This window on which your government is working would be intended only for future victims of attacks. However, the report of the Committee of Inquiry was clear on this point, namely that the urgency was to anticipate things for future victims – I am not questioning the need to put things in place for future victims. But why didn't we ensure that this window was accessible to the victims of the March 22, 2016 attacks? This is still not the case more than six years later. This is quite incomprehensible, especially as it causes victims to search for information by themselves or to refer to certain associations that have had to set up themselves to remedy this. This has prompted associations such as Life4Brussels to set up legal permanences. Today, we see that associations fulfil the tasks that should have been fulfilled by the State. Minister, as far as compensation is concerned, Mr D'Haese referred to the fact that a third of the victims would still not be compensated today. I don't know where that figure comes from, but there are too many victims who are not yet compensated. You went back to a series of rather administrative reasons specific to certain files. But there are also other reasons on which you did not come back and which are quite challenging. For example, some victims have never been identified, even though it was the duty of the State and he had all the information to do so. When you go to the airport, you have recorded your trip, you may have already gone to the boarding gate. When you are in Maelbeek, you have a subscription. You've put down this subscription. There was therefore a great deal of information that allowed us to identify these victims and, consequently, to go to them to provide them with the information they needed to assert their rights. That has not been done. Another reason why some victims were not compensated is simply because they did not have enough time to do so because they did not have the information. And when they got them, they were told, "Sorry, the deadline for doing so has expired." This really shows the importance of a one-stop shop. There is also the fact that at some point victims are so tired of having to multiply the expertise here and there that they no longer have the strength to complete their efforts. Finally, other victims first approached their insurance companies but ultimately were not compensated – not at all or insufficiently. That is why, when they arrive later to the Commission for financial aid, they are again told: "Sorry, it's too late." In relation to this, it was still common sense to be able to simplify their task. This was the idea of this one-stop shop, but instead we can see that we have multiplied the interlocutors, the steps, the procedures. There is a cumulation between the subsidiary procedures and the residual procedures. And, in all this, the victims are still not there. I return to my question, to which I have still not received an answer. Why can the victims of the 22 March attacks still not benefit from this one-stop shop, when that was the wish of the commission of inquiry? Another recommendation I wanted to return to is the establishment of an inter-federal task force. You confirm that she has not been summoned since 2018. Why? If you said so, it would be nice to hear it again. Forgive me, minister, but you spoke very quickly and gave a lot of information. I've probably missed some things. However, this task force was particularly essential, particularly with regard to the unique expertise of insurance. You explained to us that a draft bill led by Minister Dermagne is on track to compensate the victims. It is more than time for this to happen in Parliament so that we can debate it, because the media reports we receive from it are quite worrying, particularly as regards possible discrimination against foreign victims. At the time, however, we agreed that victims – whether Belgian or not – should be able to be properly compensated and should not be discriminated against on the basis of their nationality. Apparently, that would not be the case in this draft. We are therefore deeply concerned. And then, the question of the unique expertise would still not be foreseen, while the victims are exhausted of multiple expertise. In addition, some victims face difficulties with their insurance companies. There have been several cases where legal protection insurances were supposed to be involved, although they did not. This is why associations have had to intervene so that victims can benefit from it. I therefore hope that you will raise this point with your competent colleague. You also pointed out that from now on, psychological damage would be dealt with, because it was not acquired at the outset. Can you confirm to me this evolution that would incorporate damage into the 10% disability rate that was legally set by the previous government to facilitate compensation? How is this support organized? I can give you a very concrete example. Today, victims who are underage are received by expert doctors who are not entitled to receive young children without the presence of child psychiatrists – whose expertise is obviously fundamental. What is your view on this? Is there ongoing consultation with the Minister of Health? Next, you tell us that ambulance workers and police officers who have been injured and, as a result, have been victims of these attacks can be compensated from their employers. No doubt, but it is only a possibility, as you rightly pointed out. Moreover, theory does not always correspond to practice. That is what we are interested in. The question must be asked whether all of these victims were actually compensated and did not simply have the possibility of being compensated. This is a huge shade. With regard to my question about associations of victims and their recognition, you have not answered me. I'm cruelly hungry. You cannot say in your report that, in accordance with the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, all victims are now recognised and supported in administrative and financial terms, even though this is completely wrong. I take the example of the Life4Brussels association, which today has only a small subsid of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to take care of nearly 500 victims. Why, while your follow-up report states that all associations are recognized, is that not the case? In any case, there is no care, no federal support. You mentioned this famous victim coaching project, about which I have asked you several times. There is finally a double problem with that. First of all – and this is one of the reasons why I asked you so often – this subsidy of 200,000 euros was granted only to one of the two associations that support the victims. However, this raises a fundamental question. Secondly, this coaching project normalizes a situation that is not normal; that is, it is these associations that carry out tasks that should initially have been fulfilled by the authorities. You tell us this project works because 146 victims would have been contacted by the coaches. But you are also telling us that some of the six victims, I think, would have asked for no further support. It would have been interesting to ask why. Why did these victims contacted by the coaches decide to stop working with them? Isn't this an opportunity to assess the real effectiveness or not of this coaching project? That would still be the least, given the large amount allocated to it. Not to mention that the figure of 146 victims you mention is far below the number of victims currently being cared for by Life4Brussels. I will conclude with another point, which concerns another aspect. I have introduced a question concerning the legislative follow-up of certain recommendations, in particular with regard to State security, professional secrecy and the obligation of intelligence services to inform, therefore, as regards article 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Your follow-up report tells us that the follow-up to this recommendation is not scheduled. In other words, there will be no follow-up. You confirmed this by saying that coordination mechanisms have already been put in place. It would have been interesting for us to know what these coordination mechanisms are that justify the failure to implement this recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. In fact, it teaches us that meetings such as these can bring added value, because Members of Parliament keep the minister and the cabinet alert to the actors in the field, and vice versa. We, too, are being kept alert by this meeting in order to make progress. Colleagues, I have of course also heard some critical noises. Some thought that little had happened. I would suggest that you read the recommendations of other parliamentary committees of inquiry and see what is made of them and compare them with them. Then I think that what has happened here, and has been filled out, has its merit. I come to a few specific points. First things first, of course the victims. Mr D'Haese, I would have preferred this trial not to take place before the Court of Assistes. However, that required a special majority, which we have not found. The victims wanted that too, but we did not succeed. So now we must try to make the best of the existing procedure before the Court of Assists. You rightly pointed out the dangers and risks involved, in addition to the length of the procedure. Minister, you have pointed out that the victims and the bourgeois parties will be assisted by judicial assistants in the federal prosecutors' office. But are there enough to accompany the masses of bourgeois parties? Of course, there aren't just bourgeois parties. There are witnesses, too. There are also magistrates. They also deserve help and guidance, so that nothing would go wrong. I do not dare to think that we should also go to Cassatie and that we should do the procedure again, with all the costs and, above all, with all the emotions that this entails for the bourgeois parties. You were talking about the victim coaches, which is a novel. Not everyone wants to appeal to that. We respect that. The question is whether the number of coaches is sufficient for those who do wish to appeal to it? Are there waiting times when victims wish to appeal to them? It could open a last option for those who have said not to use it for the time being. It may be that the emotions that the process will bring about are the desire that does give rise to the need of those who have so far refused it. Can they still appeal to that? As far as compensation is concerned, I understand that not everything has yet been reimbursed. Expertises, especially medical and psychological expertise, may take a long time, although some years have passed between the facts and now. However, a number of 600 files is a lot. The sums paid suggest to me that fortunately the majority of the files are handled by the rist insurers and health care institutions. First of all, do you have a visual on that? Is there a great deal of delay in that regard? Second of all, can't we just step up? After all, I can imagine that the pressure and needs of the victims will increase in the run-up to the assistance process and during that process. May I make a suggestion on the matter? After all, I am somewhat surprised by the amount of the advances you mentioned. That is relatively low for me. I can imagine that some of the procedures that have not yet been completed are related to ongoing medical and psychological procedures. However, interim reports could be made and, on this basis, accelerated advance payments could be made. May I make a suggestion on the matter? We note in the field that many people, even after retirement, are prepared to do something or to help the left and right. That is what happens in education and in health care institutions. I am convinced that many magistrates who have just retired and have expertise in the handling of claims files are prepared to lend a hand. Can't they be extra engaged? This may also apply to retired file dealers of insurers. They have become independent as a result of their retirement and have expertise in the handling of damages. They can help in the next few months as a matter of priority, perhaps a little bit more. An important recommendation is the recommendation on the Crossroads Bank. You refer in your note to the vision paper 2020, which has been adopted. Part of this refers to management arrangements to be made between the different actors and between the Justice and the police. What is the status of these management arrangements? The Committee of Inquiry did not suggest a new database, but requested, as it were, a dome above the existing databases at the various safety authorities, with a secure interconnection. Hence my question, quid with those management agreements? You have talked about the means of securing the system, but I am also asking about the organization of that dome itself. What is the state of play? The next point is the Executive of the Muslims, which has lost some time. Progress is of course important, partly because the Executive of the Muslims bears responsibility for the designation of Islam teachers and imams. Is there a delay in that too, is there a problem? Another important reason for progress is the Great Mosque. The recognition of the Great Mosque was rightly withdrawn, but in the meantime it was intended that that mosque would be temporarily managed by the Executive. How is the Great Mosque currently managed, now that the renewed Executive of the Muslims is still waiting? In relation to the criminal courts, the note rightly states that they should receive correct and complete information in order to be able to properly assess possible conditional release. The exchange of information between the security and intelligence services and the criminal courts, directly and indirectly, is of course crucial to this. My concern about this sharing of information is whether this happens in a contradictory manner. More specifically, the question is whether this is done in accordance with the law on external legal status, in particular in accordance with Articles 31 and 32 of that law. Your head of the cabinet knows that matter. If there is opposition, cassation appeal can be avoided. Finally, I have a new question. If you or your Head of Cabinet cannot answer this question now, I will submit them as a written question. It concerns the role of international providers who have an obligation to contribute to the decryption of communication applications allowing intelligence services to have access to certain information. During the discussion of the draft law on data retention, you pointed out, among other things, the legal obligation of decryption. In your note, you refer to the fact that, at European level, too, the noses must be in the same direction. Can you tell us what the situation is? My concern is as follows. Some countries, such as the United Kingdom and France, are terra-sensitive, as are ours because of, among other things, the European Commission and NATO which are based here. However, there are other countries that are less sensitive to terrorism, which means that the pressure to make progress is much lower than in our country. Do we have to wait for every country? This is where progress is required, and we certainly must not keep up the pace of the slowest countries. If the progress in these decryption processes is too slow, we would lack information that could prevent incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u13	Colleagues, as Mr Pivin said, the report says that the way we work best is that we say very clearly what has been done and what has not. Mr Dallemagne said that it was an optimistic report and asked whether it was concrete and correct. What we're giving is the facts. If we say "unscheduled", there is no programming. Parliamentary scrutiny is one thing, but I am not against hearings, invitations. This week, I was in Parliament every day. I have seen parliamentarians more than my wife. It's my job, and it's true for you, too. I have no problem. If that becomes the working method of this committee, then I would like to accept that. I will never say that you should do so, Madam President, but if that is your opinion, then I will be here and answer. The fact that we indicate this so concretely with texts and colours proves that we are working on this, that we are taking this seriously, that we are listening to what you are saying. Does this mean that all recommendations need to be implemented? Does this mean that the decisions taken by this committee and the plenary and all the members who voted must be implemented sine qua non? Can there not be any other insights at some point? In the description of the recommendations, perhaps some subtleties are not entirely correct? Have there been any changes in insights over time? I think that's the case. In other words, I do not think you can say that all the stricto sensu recommendations must be implemented as they stand. If they are not carried out or otherwise, this must be explained. There should be a debate on this, such as the debate on the JDCs and fora counterterrorism. In Brussels there is JDC and in other places there are counterterrorism forums. Yes, I said a debate was under way. That debate is now being held in the Coordination Committee. It is not a problem to have a debate about this here in Parliament, with the pros and cons. We are prepared to do so. Then I come to a debate that often comes back here. I'm sorry I keep having to give the same answer. The Guarantee Fund is included in the recommendations. They say we have to move towards a fund. It is true that this is included in the report. But the previous government has decided not to set it up, just as that will be the case with this government, Mr Dallemagne. It's not new. I have already said that in this committee. The government's choice is to move towards a bill led by the Minister of Economy. I am being asked whether there is discrimination in particular. You can invite my colleague, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, to explain his project. I know that he has already answered a question on the subject in plenary. In this regard, explanations are indeed needed. Then I come to the specific questions. Mr D'Haese, you were right to ask whether there was enough cooperation. I can give you six examples of cooperation. For example, the Strategy Terrorism, Extremism and Radicalisation is an example of cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, other ministers and the federated entities. The draft law that we are now discussing in this committee, on the virtual agents, concerns cooperation with the Defense Department, with the ADIV. The Intelligence Steering Plan is a cooperation between the State Security and the ADIV. The extension of OCAD's support services is yet another example of cooperation. The disengagement projects are an example of cooperation with the Communities and the justice houses. We are also working out a royal decision to renew the protocol between State Security and EPI, which is yet another example of cooperation. In other words, there is a lot of cooperation and synergy, more than was the case for 2016. Those lessons have been learned. You asked what the priorities are in this document. I do not think your question is to prioritise the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, to say that one is more important than another. No, we are trying to implement them all, and if we do not implement them or implement them differently, we want to explain that as well. When it comes to priorities for Justice, for example prison policy on radicalisation, security architecture, the secure information network, these are all priorities. The reinforcement of the intelligence services, of the VSSE, I mentioned. Mr D'Haese, you also said that there is a gap when we look at how many files have been handled and how many are still under discussion. That is correct, but I also explained that 500 new files were submitted in 2020 at the time of the deadline. Madam President, I have also replied. There was a deadline and we didn't extend it. It expired before I became Minister of Justice. It would be very strange to renew it once it has passed. Mr Verherstraeten, files were also submitted in 2020. Not all files date from 2016, there are also more recent files. You can feel free to invite Mr Oldenhove of the Committee on Financial Aid to victims of intentional acts of violence and to the occasional rescuer. He is also an example of a civil servant, who will explain to you exactly why certain files have not yet been dealt with. That's what people keep in mind. That's important to say. Mr D'Haese, with regard to the problem of the assistance procedure, I can refer to what Mr Verherstraeten has said about the question of why there is an assistance procedure. The previous government has not succeeded in finding a two-thirds majority, nor has the current government. One can call that a drama, but that is the reality. If we do not find a two-thirds majority, neither in the previous nor in the current legislature, this means that there is no support for this in Parliament. That is the reality. In order to amend the Constitution, we need a two-thirds majority. You can say that it is a disgrace that the Minister of Justice does not solve that, but I take Parliament into account. That's my fucking assignment. Parliament is the legislative power and takes precedence over the executive. Does that mean we're not doing anything? We have been preparing that process carefully for years. This is not only my credit, but also that of Mr Geens, who started in 2019 with the separate site Justitia, in which millions of euros have been invested. This site is also used for other processes. I have recently been on the scene with the federal prosecutor and federal prosecutors to ensure that we are prepared in detail by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, in cooperation with the Communities. In the meantime, we've been working on that for months. There were trips to Paris. We are also fortunate that the Paris trial has taught us a lot. It will indeed be a very difficult process. I admit that, we knew that at the beginning. We will do everything we can to guide it well. You asked if there would be another legislative initiative. We will do so on certain specific modalities, but if the question is whether we are going to reform assistants now, the answer is no. That's not new either, by the way. We said this from the outset, when we had the debate on terrorism and assistive measures. That was through videoconference, I think, in the Constitutional Commission. I want to come back to that every time, but I fear I will tell you the same thing every time. If you ask four experts about the Crossroads Bank Security, you get five different answers. A Crossroads Bank Security sounds good I have answered quite precisely on this but the most important thing is the spirit that lies behind the Crossroads Bank Security, namely that information is shared through certain mechanisms. I have described such mechanisms, for example the fact that the intelligence services and the police have access to each other's data. For me, however, the Crossroads Bank Security is also about the famous secure infrastructure that secure communications network that we do not have at the moment or only very flawed in our country. Now it's called BINI. If a minister in our country wants to make a phone call to a colleague abroad with a secure line today, he must go to an embassy. That is the reality in our country, a reality we have inherited. We are going to do that now, and we are going to invest a lot of money in it. Funds have been made available, EUR 30 million to invest in that new project. I think that is also an element of the Crossroads Bank Security. Mr Metsu, the victims. You referred to the victim coaches, only 16%. Those coaches were activated a few months ago. I apologize for not putting them into effect in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, excuse me. My bad. I couldn't do that. I did it from the start. You are quite right to say that I have met these people, and I suggest that other colleagues do the same. People talk about this and always make the process of one association against another, but for me it is not important for the association, whether they are good coaches and whether there are enough. That is a legitimate question, also from Mr Verherstraeten. They have met 146 there after a few months of operation. At the moment we have not received a signal that there are too few and they would not be able to handle the work. If that were the case, we should probably do more. I have not received all the victims, but I have received several positive feedback, Mr Metsu. I was at a meeting in the European Parliament with Commissioner Johansson and proposed coaches there. He thought that was a very interesting idea. Ms. Rohonyi said that the State must do so. No, I don't! This is an idea that comes in particular from an association of victims. An association, yes, but it's not bad. If the associations have ideas, they can always offer them to me. You don't always have to stick to an association. It's not up to the state to do it. The State subsidizes. We pay that, but the fact that that happens by an association is just the strength also that society cooperates with the government and that the government doesn't have to do everything. We pay them, we don't let them do everything themselves. The fact that it is done by them is precisely the power of civil society. That's what it's about. Mr Metsu, you mentioned the fund. The previous government and this government have chosen a different path, namely that of Mr Dermagne's draft law. You demand respect for the victims of terror. People aren't machines. Victims, of course, deserve respect, but we must also respect the services that accompany victims. The Victim's Home Service of the Federal Office or the Community Victim's Home Service is not machinery either. They do not remain unmoved by all the suffering that people have experienced. Mrs. Pellens of the Federal Court, Mrs. Van Wymersch, the King's Attorney in Halle-Vilvoorde, for example, engages in one-on-one conversation with victims. We've reinforced the federal prosecutor's victim's welcome. We are doing everything we can to guide the victims in the right way together with the justice houses. It is not the federal prosecutors who would do the supervision, it is the justice assistants of justice houses who will do the supervision during the trial. There, too, preparations are underway with the communities to ensure that this is done properly. I would also like to thank the communities for their financial efforts to provide sufficient legal assistants during the process. Colleague Vajda, thank you for your questions as well. It is true that one of the difficulties is the length of this trial. But it is the choice of sittings that has been made and, by definition, it will take a lot of time. We've had to go through the whole trial from the beginning. That's the uniqueness of assists. Our idea for victims who do not want or cannot follow this process very closely is to copy the idea of a radio web coming from Paris. It worked very well in Paris. We're very happy about that. At the same time, there is also a great deal of demand from the services concerned, both the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Community, which, as I said in Dutch - and I am sorry - have invested a great deal in the additional legal assistance to this end. Colleague Vajda, if other associations of victims ask me to be recognised, it is obvious that we will look at this issue seriously, as we have done for V-Europe and Life4Brussels. That's clear. To answer your question on articles 29 and 19, as I said, with the operation of JIC and JDC, we found a system of information exchange. This recommendation was assessed. The BIM commission itself assessed the fact that a legislative amendment was not necessary. As far as your question about Islamism and Islam is concerned, you are absolutely right. Islamism rejects Western norms and values, promotes socio-cultural separatism and ultimately rejects the existing legal order. Islamism is strongly linked to states. The factories of Islamism are the Muslim Brotherhood, Wahhabism, Salafism, Turkish Islamism, Iranian Islamism. A multidimensional strategy against Islamism is needed. And of course, it has nothing to do with Islam. That's very clear. As far as the Executive is concerned, I am well aware of the difficulty of my task and the problems that have been going on for a long time. Mr Van Hecke, with regard to the recommendations that were not implemented in the security of the State, that was also very metical. For example, the removal of internet content is not the VSSE, but the police are the only ones designated. The need for the fusion cell recommendation was addressed through the JDC system. Linking the VSSE and ADIV databases was completed through the common platforms, bringing together and handling all relevant information in real time. The joint strategy for State Security and ADIV is only there for those areas that overlap, being through the intelligence steering plan. However, remember that the finality of both services is fundamentally different. The ADIV is a military service whose focus is different. Otherwise, of course, a merger would be obvious. Regarding the recommendation on Europol, the VSSE is not a police force, but a liaison officer has been installed. As you can see, the recommendations have not been deliberately ignored, but sometimes a different interpretation has been made, which means that the specific recommendation is not planned. So it's certainly not a matter of inertia. That's not how my cabinet works. That's not how our services work. We're going to be mechanic. If there are 100 recommendations, there must also be 100 answers. I come to the question about the JDC. I would like to have that debate with confidence. It is being held in the coordination committee, but I am prepared to have that debate with you here too. As regards the exchange of information between the intelligence services in the Conings case. I would like to say very clearly that the Jürgen Conings file was discussed at the LTF, but that the ADIV was not there. The information was provided to the ADIV through notes, which did not provide sufficient information. In fact, this was literally confirmed by the Committee I in its report. You also had a question on page 29, more cooperation between the intelligence services. In the new intelligence steering plan presented to me this month, both intelligence services agree to set up a common platform for counter-extremism. A platform will also be established for cyber, scientific and economic potential. This means that the capacities are bundled. For counterintelligence, too, a thorough synergy is foreseen. The services really understood that message. I have the impression that the new leadership of ADIV and the VSSE has absolute willingness to do much more, but of course a merger is not on the table. The VSSE can hardly secure our troops abroad. You are right, it is a forgetfulness of us not to mention FAST, but this service has indeed been strengthened. FAST has recently proven that it is doing a good job in detecting and asking for the handover of the man in the Netherlands, who according to certain media was supposedly in Ibiza, but that was not the case. They call the minister and ask him why he's in Ibiza, but he wasn't in Ibiza. FAST solved this matter very quickly with colleagues from the Netherlands. This is also proof that FAST is in a very good network in the field of international cooperation. The debate on capacity will take place on 15 June. This is going to be a very interesting debate. We're not gonna do preliminaries right now. Mr Aouasti, this is indeed work in progress. In particular, you talked about recruitment. The effort for State Security is impressive. We need to grow from about 500 to 1,000 people. We're already at 747 today. It's proof that things are moving forward, which is already a good thing. In addition, as I have said on many occasions, an additional effort must be made for the FJP. As far as coaches are concerned, the system for assessing them is provided for from a regulatory point of view. Today, it is still too early to pronounce. But, as you said, a first evaluation is planned again this year. In particular, you asked whether the services cannot simply ignore recommendations. I have already answered that question. So I repeat, no. There may be good reasons for doing otherwise, but this must be done in a transparent manner. That is the purpose of the reporting and discussion that we have here today. Mr Pivin, thank you for your flowers, but also for the pot of flowers! We await your written question, which we will answer. With regard to Jürgen Conings, page 4 of the report, all persons in the BDC (Common Data Bank) are checked for their possession of a weapons licence and TFL (?) discuss the appropriateness of submitting a report to the Governor to refer to it. So it's planned. This process involves not only the individual concerned, but also family members or persons living with him/her. It is no secret that people on the far right have a preference for firearms. For the legal adaptation of the BDC we are preparing, we want to ensure that these mechanisms are triggered automatically. We'll give the BDC more muscles. The aim will be to systematically examine what is the most appropriate measure for each case: the withdrawal of the weapons licence, a security clearance, alerting the employer and others. The recommendations of the police are contained in our report, but it is an explicit agreement with the Minister of the Interior that will ensure that these recommendations are implemented. All questions will find answers. You can record the appointment on June 21st in the Home Affairs Committee. It is my colleague from the Interior who will provide all the police-related answers. It's an agreement between the two firms. Let me turn to the question of social networks and State security. We've already increased our capacity. At the time of the attacks, four officers were working there. Today, we have 15 full-time investigators to gather information, both through passive surveillance and through the use of virtual agents. You know that we are in the process of drafting the law to bring about more technicality. The service remains in contact with the main platforms to obtain data. In the area of counter-terrorism, this is going very well. Important steps have been taken in this regard since the attacks. Information is shared with the Penal Enforcement Court (TAP) through the BDC's administrative records, to which the OCAM's threat assessment is submitted, which is subject to open and adversarial proceedings. Of course, it is impossible for classified security documents to be forwarded to the TAP. Hence the chosen track of BDC information. With regard to your question about the Security Liaison Officers, we have started to set up them abroad, namely in The Hague – where various intelligence services are established – and in Washington for operational purposes. In the future, with the new security personnel, we will evaluate the system and eventually place liaison officers in other countries. The network of police liaison officers has been evaluated by the Federal Police. As a result, we're going to place a liaison officer in Colombia, not for terrorist cases, but for organized crime cases. With regard to victims, reference persons must be provided at Community level. The single central window has been set up at the level of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, but it is true that it is only activated in the event of calamity in the context of urgent management. As for the coaches, I've talked about it enough. As regards consultation with the bar associations' orders, in the context of legal aid for victims, consultation with the bar associations' orders in the area of victim support is planned. Within the framework of the inter-federal task force, this was a commitment of the orders to establish a permanent special list for insurance lawyers. The Commission for Victim Assistance was contacted by the OVB and Avocats.be to discuss the possibility of participating in training for lawyers. With regard to the method of operation of this committee, as I said, I am obviously completely at the disposal of this good committee. Mr De Caluwe and Mr Van Hecke, I think I have already answered the questions on the recommendations. Mr Dallemagne, as you know, I am prepared to insist on operating methods. On the substance of the discussion, I think I answered. You're not happy, and I understand that. What I said about Osama Atar and how intelligence from different countries cooperate is the following: cooperation on counter-terrorism has increased enormously. The attacks in Paris were on 11 September in Europe. Cooperation has increased not only in the intra-European sphere, but the whole coalition against Daesh systematically transmits information. The civilian and military intelligence services, the police and the judiciary do so. It's a real information-sharing machine that came into being here. The French, the Dutch, all our neighbours, like the British and the Americans, are very valuable partners. There is a real change of culture in the fight against terrorism. All countries are really shooting in the same direction. I myself was present in Marrakech, Morocco, for the international coalition against Daesh. It was a physical meeting for the first time, comprising several of 80 countries. I was able to represent Sophie Wilmès. We have done a lot of bilateral work with many countries on terrorism and organised crime: African countries, countries in the Middle East and other countries. I think that has changed a lot. Mrs Rohonyi, as far as the Single Window is concerned, as I have just said, it is installed at the Federal Prosecutor's Office, but for future calamities. That's the reality, and you know it very well. As far as the victims are concerned, I gave the explanation of the delay, as Mr D'Haese correctly said. With regard to the inter-federal task force, I may have spoken too quickly. I was asked why this task force was not meeting to prepare for the trial of sieges on the attacks. I can be clear on this point. The trial of sieges on the attacks is being prepared in various inter-federal working groups. They work in the same spirit as the famous inter-federal task force. Three working groups were established under the direction of a steering group. The Communities and the Houses of Justice have been involved in this process. As far as the bill brought by my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne is concerned, you can invite him. I am sure he will respond with pleasure to your invitation. As for your specific question on the 10% fixed especially for minors, I suggest that you question the Minister of Public Health. I come to your question about the victims of relief services and their adequate or inadequate compensation. I do not have a comprehensive overview of compensation for all employers. Like you, I know it wasn't always obvious. But I also know that many services have changed their system since then, although it is true that this does not solve the problems of the past. Finally, if the various organisations come with good projects we will support them. The question is not which organization it is. It depends on the projects submitted to us. Mr Vajda, I think I have already answered your question on Article 29. Mr Verherstraeten, I have already spoken about the judicial assistants. Is the number enough? At the moment, I'm not getting any signals that there would be too little. However, if that is the case, we shall amend it. You made a very good suggestion regarding the magistrates who recently retired. I know that even in the preparation of the trial there have been talks with such magistrates. In any case, quite a lot of pensioners are already working today, including rewriting laws and handling dossiers. We also appeal to them. However, it is a very good suggestion. We will see if we can do more with that. On the management arrangements and the Crossroads Bank, a consultation committee was set up by my predecessor at Justice and by Mr Jambon, who delivered his report at the end of 2019. However, the report did not provide any practical guidelines on what the Crossroads Bank should contain and how it should be installed. With the Executive, there have been serious problems in recent years as regards the appointment of Islam teachers and Islam consultants. I'm afraid that's not new. I'm working on a solution, but with respect for religious freedom. I now come to your questions about the international providers. We have yet to give an answer to the WRP. I have not seen that here, particularly the criminal courts and the counter-controversies. You also asked a question about the international providers, i.e. the obligation to decrypt, data retention. There is a European Council resolution on this matter which says that encryption must not prevent security services from doing their job. The item regularly returns to the international agenda. We are taking the lead there at European level. However, I cannot promise you that there will be a breakthrough tomorrow. All countries struggle with that. I was at the Egmont Palace yesterday for a speech on child abuse, organised by Commissioner Johansson. There is a European draft regulation in the making, which allows even the content of messages relating to child abuse to be made compulsory, including when it comes to encrypted messages. So that is a serious step forward from Europe. It's a huge challenge, though. I am not in favour of the backdoor system, which puts pressure on the system. At the same time, we must not allow terrorists to use such systems to resort to methods of secret communication. For your question on the exchange of data and the WRP, I will provide you with the answer in writing. So much for my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u14	Thank you, Minister. Are there any colleagues who wish to replicate? Mr. D'Haese?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u15	Madam President, I would like to repeat briefly. Minister, I think you can easily park the debate on the two-thirds majority. The question is what is the situation today and whether you have that majority in your government or not? That's what it's really about. It's an incredibly missed opportunity. We cannot change that in this short space of time, it would be trivial to use that as an argument, but it is a missed chance that the terrorism chamber will not be there. At the end of the trial, we will have to say that it is very unfortunate that we do not have that judicial entity in our judicial organisation. Secondly, I have had a moment to discuss with Mr Metsu during your very comprehensive reply, and thank you for that. Of course, you often turn it around a little bit. Failure to implement recommendations literally describes you as a moving insight. That's the world upside down, of course it can't be. Thirdly, a missed opportunity that we continue to point out is the famous Crossroads Bank. That was the recommendation of the recommendations. It's all about cooperation in the landscape. You say that the spirit is more important to you than the measure itself. All experts have said unisono the opposite. Everyone is of good will within the landscape, but that's not what it's about. It's not about the spirit, it's about reality. It's about gathering all intelligence and all available data at a crossroads. That's what it is. This is a dishonor to the work of Mr Bruggeman and Professor Vermeulen. They broke a lance for that. You are leaving that opportunity, and that is particularly regrettable, as is the terrorism chamber that will not be there or the information crossroads that will not be there. Those are things that are left in a hurry. But we may have this debate at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u16	Mr Minister, thank you for the additions you have been able to bring. It wasn't easy. When I went through all the reports (Mobility, Interior, Justice), I realized that it was in justice that the recommendations were the most important, perhaps not by their number but by their sophistication. I realize that this is an extremely complicated and certainly long-term task. Thank you for that. You're up to the stakes. Madam President, I would like a discussion on how to operate on the agenda of a future committee. I am not thinking of a monitoring committee, as Mr Dallemagne has been asking for for two years, but we have things to do in addition to our annual meetings on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u17	Before Mr Dallemagne takes the floor, I would like to say that next Wednesday we will be discussing the arrangements for the work. It is not in our power to decide on a special committee itself, but we can, of course, continue our work next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u18	I thank the minister and I think he is doing his job seriously. However, it is true that I am surprised by some of his answers. He tells me, in particular, about the victims: "You are not going to agree and besides, it was a decision taken by the former government". Yes! It was a decision that had been made by the previous government! I have read through your government's statement and, Minister, it is marked that "the government will implement the recommendations of the commission of inquiry." On the Carrefour Bank, "the government will create a Crossroad Bank" and on the JICs/JDCs, "the implementation of these JICs/JDCs will continue."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u19	You do not follow your government's agreement and you will remember that our group did not vote against this government agreement. We abstained in view of the circumstances, context and difficulty in which our country was located and given certain measures proposed in your agreement. We see that today you do not follow your government agreement. I will be wind up against this bill because I have never heard any reason to believe that this fund is not being implemented. The only explanation we have heard is that we have no experience in this area. What's wrong! The fund exists as well as specific measures (I recalled) for other types of technological accidents in particular. It's incomprehensible. This will keep future victims in an extremely complicated maquis on compensation. I really ask you to review your copy in this regard, in particular in order to respect your own government agreement. I am counting on the colleagues who participated in this parliamentary committee of inquiry, such as Mr Pivin, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr D'Haese, and others who were there just now, such as Mr D'Haese. Van Hecke, in order not to depart from this fundamental recommendation of our committee of inquiry. I would not understand that we are not following this fundamental recommendation. It is simple to implement. We have tabled a bill. I have proposed it to the co-signature of all the democratic groups in Parliament. We have submitted a bill. I will ask that it be attached to the bill. There is absolutely no reason why this recommendation from our committee of inquiry should not be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-03-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic806x.u20	Are there any colleagues who wish to speak? No? Then thank you all and wish you a good weekend. Next week we will see how this continues.
