ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cornet's 55026731C was postponed. Mr Patrick Prévot and Mrs Rohonyi are not present. I call Mr Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently the representatives of the SNPS police union indicated in the press that the conduct training offered to our police officers would not be effectively oriented towards practice. Indeed, 19 accidents with priority vehicles involving federal police officers were recorded, according to my information, between October 2020 and September 2021. These accidents, wounding 30 police officers, occurred for the most part during the prosecution or transfer of detainees. In this respect, the SNPS union believes that specific defensive driving training should be put in place in order to avoid accidents and ensure the optimal driving of a priority vehicle by the response teams. Minister, what can you tell us about the training of our law enforcement officers in priority conduct? What are the latest figures available for road accidents involving priority vehicles in terms of both the number of incidents and the costs involved? What is your position regarding an increase in the practical training of our police aspirants for this conduct? Finally, if so, what are your intentions and ambitions to put the theory of these trainings into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Police Service for the Prevention and Protection of Work has been informed of the occurrence of two accidents within the Federal Police with priority vehicles between 1 October 2021 and 26 April 2022. In addition, training in the driving of priority vehicles has been the subject of a written parliamentary question, namely Question No 1039 by Mr Bert Moyaers, dated 13 January 2022. I invite you to go through it for more detailed information. As a reminder, during the basic training, aspirants are trained in the theoretical priority driving. Indeed, through this theoretical approach, they learn to estimate on the basis of concrete cases whether the priority conduct is relevant. The objective of the basic training is to convey the basic concepts of priority driving to the police aspirants. Once at the internship site, they then put this into practice by driving a priority vehicle in emergency situations. Secondly, the police officers most concerned are required to take practical training in driving according to their assignment service and the function performed. These trainings can be organized at the level of the National Police Academy - mainly in the functional trainings - or by the accredited police schools located at the provincial level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u4	Minister, thank you for your response. I will take note of my colleague's written question and eventually continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u5	Madam Minister, following the results of a pilot phase of the use of the electric pulse gun - known as "Taser" - in progress until December 2022 and after publication of the final opinion of the police armament commission, you sent your green light to the federal police in order to define this material as a so-called "collective" weapon. Your willingness to grant the Taser the status of a collective weapon means that the weapon will not be assigned individually, but to a group of police officers who have undergone a specific basic training. In my view, however, this decision must be subject to great caution in order to define an appropriate legal framework and a precise framework for use. It is necessary to ensure adequate training and coordination, as well as the establishment of specific safeguards, given the nature of this weaponry. Minister, what are your intentions regarding the use of the electric pulse gun? During the current testing phase, how many Tasers are used, in how many police areas and by how many police officers trained in their use? Could you also provide us with detailed figures on the rates of use of this equipment, as well as on incidents that may have occurred in this context? Finally, what are the legal and strict-use beacons that you intend to foresee in the future and today in the context of the use of this weapon? Could you tell us how the consultation with the trade unions and other relevant actors is organised in this context, as well as the training facilities put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u6	Thank you, Mr Seneseal, for the figures on your second and third questions. I refer you to my answer to the parliamentary question No 11049 by Mrs Caroline Taquin, which contains the most up-to-date information in my possession on this subject. As for your last question, trade union organizations have analysed my intention to classify electric impulse pistols as collective weapons. It should be recalled that the use of the electric pulse gun is still part of the pilot project which runs until 31 December 2022 and which will be the subject of an overall assessment, including any necessary legislative and regulatory adaptations. The terms and conditions of use of this weapon will be the subject of the approval file. However, it is clear that the basic principles of the use of coercion, such as the principles of legality, timeliness, proportionality, subsidiarity and prior warning, as referred to in Articles 1 and 37 of the Police Function Act, remain fully applicable. So far, there seems to be no problem with the use of the electric pulse gun. Any person affected by the firing of such a pistol shall be subject to medical supervision. As regards the specific training for the use of this weapon, it is envisaged that additional specific training for the 16-hour basic training will be envisaged, requiring, in particular, EDS training as a prerequisite. As for skills maintenance training, it is envisaged that eight hours of specific training will be provided in addition to the hours of violence control training currently provided by the GPI 48. The "train the trainers" principle will be applied because of the increased capacity that will be required to train all interested parties. The point of view emerging from the social consultation is that trade unions are not opposed to the use of the electric pistol as a collective police weapon, but it is appropriate, as the opinion of the College of Public Prosecutors seems to indicate, to establish a specific legal framework to ensure the best possible legal protection of staff members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u7	Minister, thank you for your clear and detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u8	Madam Secretary, we all remember the tragic accident in Strépy. A driver drove it at high speed on a carnival procession. We heard in the media that this person had posted videos of himself on social media, which also showed how he drove through the built-up area at too high a speed. Apparently there is a phenomenon in which car drivers look up the limits of themselves and their cars and even drink alcohol and use drugs. In that state they crawl behind the wheel and flame at insane speeds across our roads. In addition, they film this behavior to score likes on social media. This bad behavior must not go unpunished. After all, the impact of this is enormous. Too many people leave their lives in traffic. Every road kill is one too many. It is terrible for relatives when a loved one is so suddenly taken out of life by a tragic traffic accident. That is why I have a number of questions for you, Madam Secretary. Apparently someone can also be convicted on the basis of videos of traffic offences posted on social media. How many such cases are determined annually? How does the police work when such videos appear? I am thinking, for example, of videos of traffic aggression that we sometimes also see appearing on social media. What can we as a society do to ensure that the glorification of speed in traffic on social media is no longer socially accepted? What awareness actions are on the road safety planning, specifically on the placement of footage of speeding offences on social media?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u9	First of all, let me strongly condemn these practices. First of all, I do not understand the pleasure of creating insecurity on our roads at excessive speed, whether under influence or not. This puts other road users, but also themselves, at serious risk. It is absolutely distasteful and reprehensible to use it on social media. I think we should continue to deliver that message. As you know, the objective of the GPI is to subject one in three drivers to a road check every year, for which the GPI is committed to targeted actions. Of course, other means are also used, such as cameras. In accordance with the Federal Road Safety Plan and in consultation with the partners, these controls will continue to focus on the priorities of speed, steering under the influence of alcohol and drugs, the use of mobile devices behind the wheel and the non-use or poor use of vehicle safety equipment such as seat belts and child seats. Within the federal police, there is no service specifically dedicated to videos on social media. If such a case is discovered on social media, the police will, of course, always try to identify or prosecute the offender. Although it is not easy to compare these videos, it is not always possible to verify whether the images reflect reality and exactly where the offence was committed, in order to know the speed allowed. Despite these difficulties, our services have already managed to tackle several hard drivers, who like to unpack on social media. Although it is morally reprehensible, as I said earlier, it is not strictly prohibited to post such images on social media, regardless of the offence. Police and prosecutors are investigating the possibility of prosecuting not so much the speed shown, or the placement of such images, on the basis of the provisions of Article 10.4 of the Road Code, which prohibits the encouragement or challenge of a driver to drive excessively fast. A link may be established there. This is an infringement of the fourth degree which can be punishable by a fine of EUR 320 to 4,000 and with a decline in the right to drive the motor vehicle for a period of at least eight days and up to five years. For awareness-raising actions, please refer to the competent regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u11	Mr. President, Madam Minister, it was recently announced in the press that the integrated police were hovering over a new design of the markings of their vehicles. The so-called "Battenburg" marking in yellow and blue checker would have been retained and affixed to different cars in order to start a test phase with the aim of eventually renewing the visual identity of the entire police fleet by the end of 2023. The SLFP police union would have indicated its regret at the disappearance of the European fluo orange colour of our law enforcement vehicles, while questioning the legal basis on which this decision would be based. Minister, what are your intentions regarding a new visual identity of our police vehicles? What exactly is the status of this project? Does this new identity go beyond the "Battenburg" marking of vehicles? How many vehicles are affected by the current testing phase? How many vehicles in the integrated police fleet should the colour of which be changed? What would be the costs of such an operation? Is there any consultation with local authorities on this issue? Finally, following the fears expressed by the SLFP union, on what legal basis should this project be based?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u12	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Senesael, on August 19, 2021, I asked the integrated police to carry out a project to increase the visibility of police and vehicle personnel and to allow for greater public recognition. In my request, I said that the social partners should be involved in the work and that the existing scientific studies should be exploited and, if necessary, completed. Federal police and local police areas are currently testing different assumptions. At this stage, therefore, no decision has been taken on the deletion of the orange colour. Costs will be estimated based on test results and assumptions. These tests involve more or less 170 integrated police vehicles. Consultation with local authorities is carried out through the working group responsible for testing the marking of vehicles carrying out tasks inherent to the local police. I have asked for proposals to define a possible new visual identity of police vehicles, based on the results of the tests, and to adapt the relevant legal texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u13	Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u14	Minister, on March 31, the Walloon Parliament adopted 160 recommendations to learn from the flood management that struck our country in July. I would like to focus on one of the aspects of the outcome document that I believe is essential, namely crisis management, that is, recommendations 58 to 84. Some of these recommendations are addressed to the federal government. Given the immensity of the work done, although we may regret that no recommendation is related to insurance, many of our citizens are still waiting for intervention today. It therefore seemed important to me to ask you about three points in particular. Minister, in general, can you communicate the specific recommendations of the final report that the federal government intends to endorse? How do you envisage concretely implementing these recommendations, at least those that fall within your competence? Several Walloon MPs today stress the need for clear leadership in crisis management. If the expert committee on crisis management that you have just set up at the end of March considers it necessary, is the federal government prepared to take this responsibility? Finally, in December you announced that you had begun an evaluation of the functioning and reform of civil protection under Sweden. Who did you entrust this evaluation to? What are the first results? Have you sought an opinion on transforming emergency preparedness into a true federal agency for the prevention and management of major risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u15	Mr De Smet, as you may know, I have commissioned the Committee of Experts on Crisis Management, under the chairmanship of Honorary Governor Lodewijk De Witte, to bring together not only all the studies, assessments and other reports on crisis management during the floods that struck our country on 14 and 15 July 2021, but also those concerning the covid crisis, to draw conclusions and to make recommendations in order to further improve the large-scale crisis management process. In this way, we will learn informed lessons for the future and prepare our country for the challenges of tomorrow. I therefore propose that you wait for the outcome of this committee's work to answer your questions. The study on civil protection reform is under way. It is carried out by the University of Hasselt in collaboration with the University of Liège. The results of this study can be expected around June-July this year. A steering committee consisting of representatives of relief zones, civil protection, and federal and local police is attached to the academic bodies responsible for this study. It is important not only to focus on this study, but also to take into account that carried out by the consortium of ULB and VUB in the learning committee that I set up following the floods of mid-July 2021. It began its work in early February and its results can be expected by the end of this year. On the basis of these two studies, I will take the appropriate measures to strengthen civil protection structures if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u16	Minister, thank you for your very clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u17	Madam Minister, the COC has published a very interesting monitoring report on the recording and/or listening to confidential consultations between the suspect and the lawyer at the police station. The result of the investigation was an unannounced check at a police station where worrying findings were made. In a place where confidential consultation was held between the defendant and his or her lawyer, it turned out to be permanent image and sound. There were also no clear internal rules in that police station about when cameras were allowed to be used. The filming of confidential consultations is, of course, also contrary to the Salduz Act and the ECHR. The investigation showed that a camera system exists in the premises for confidential consultation in 27% of the police offices examined. In 13 % of police stations it was also possible to listen to the calls in real time. In 40% of the offices the interview and the confidential consultation takes place in the same local area. In addition, it was also found that there is insufficient legal knowledge in many police officers about the eavesdropping of confidential consultations. The report made a number of concrete recommendations to ensure the confidentiality of consultations. I have some questions for you, Madam Secretary. What are your conclusions based on this COC report? What recommendations will you take? The Supervisory Body recommends that binding directives be drawn up in consultation with different stakeholders. Are you in favour of that? Will you work on this? Will you do other things to ensure that the confidential consultation can take place in a separate room, which can only be used for this purpose? Is it realistic to implement this in practice? What other steps will you take to ensure the confidential consultation between the defendant and his lawyer and thus put an end to this illegal practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u18	Mrs Platteau, I have taken note of the COC report. After all, it was at the joint request of the Minister of Justice and myself that the COC conducted the thematic investigation. The content of the report is in line with the previous analyses already carried out by the COC and already explained in Parliament by the Minister of Justice after previous parliamentary questions. The results and recommendations of the report are now being thoroughly examined and implemented where necessary. After all, it is an important problem which we must take very seriously. In any case, as in my previous reply in committee, I can repeat that the think tank Salduz is meeting again, also with a view to an analysis of the report and its follow-up. Many elements can be solved in a practical way, such as providing an on/off function on the cameras, providing clear information, remembering the guidelines, including with regard to the police. That could be quick wins. Together with the Chairman of the Permanent Committee of Local Police and the Commissioner-General, I will examine the need for additional guidelines for the use of cameras, particularly in interrogation rooms and certainly in the context of confidential consultation. This could be done in addition to the existing directives, as mentioned in the letter of the College of Attorneys General COL. 8/2011 on the right of access to a lawyer. You can count on careful monitoring to ensure that the problems are dealt with as quickly as possible, both legally and practically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for giving me the context of the report. You also refer to the think tank Salduz that will give follow-up to the report. Many things can indeed be introduced in the short term. So those quick wins are really good. I have every confidence that you will continue to follow the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-04-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic776x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament 55027432C and 55027445C by Mrs Ingels are converted into written questions.
