ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, I think many of us here share this feeling of having had an important time. We must now live up to this event. I think we all heard Mr. Zelensky. I will focus on three points, starting with the no-fly zone. On this subject, yes, you're right, we can't send F-16s to fight Russian planes. There are different ways to help the martyred cities of Marioupol and others. We could deliver weapons and among them - of course we are already delivering weapons - the famous anti-aircraft portable weapons. Mr Dallemagne and I pleaded a few days ago in favour of an amendment to the motion for a resolution on this subject, but we were not followed. We cannot continue to distinguish between offensive and defensive weapons. If we deliver weapons, we can deliver any weapons, including those that will help Ukrainians protect their skies. Then the question of energy. We Europeans must find a way to stop sending every day - I say well every day - 800 million euros of oil, gas or hydrocarbons to Russia. I know that this cannot be done in three days, but I think it is absolutely necessary for Europeans to put up double bites. Finally, there is the economic question. We have already taken very strong sanctions, that's right. The president spoke about Russian diamonds in Antwerp, but beyond that, across Belgium, there are more than 1,500 Belgian companies trading with Russia, even though these companies began to do so long before the war in Ukraine began. I think we're right today to ask ourselves whether we can go on like this. Can we continue to trade, or even make new investments, with a country where we accuse or suspect leaders of committing war crimes, leaders who continue to bomb civilians and send four million refugees on the roads? Prime Minister, I think the moment is decisive and important. There have been many of us this afternoon listening to President Zelensky; I think it is now time to hear him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u3	Prime Minister, we have had a moment of history. We have listened to the President-elect of a democracy that is now being attacked, invaded by Russia, and we have applauded it. This standing ovation praised his heroism, his courage. There may have been a sense of guilt in our home in the face of this bloodbath that we can't stop. Mr Prime Minister, you have had strong words, and I want to greet them on behalf of my group. In a spirit of national unity, your speech was at the height of that moment. But it is true that we must move from speech to action. We did, but we still have to do it. Of course, among the actions we must take is the commercial issue. As President Zelensky said, we cannot continue trading with the tyrant. How will we reduce this trade with this tyrant? In Antwerp, two hundred Russian boats would arrive every month. How are we going to stop this flow of boats? There is also the issue of armaments. The weapons must live up to the aggression and must be able to stop the bloodshed. There is the issue of ground-to-air missiles. There is also the question of the Harpoon missiles we have in our stockpiles that would neutralize the boats on the Black Sea. This is a Ukrainian request and I would like to know our response to that request. Finally, there is the issue of diamonds and hydrocarbons. Here too, it is important that we have in mind the martyrdom of Marioupol, the martyrdom of this country, and the fact that it would be indecent not to set an example, even if we know that there may be (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. We have had a historic moment in this Parliament. President Zelenski is not afraid to put his finger on matters that are not obvious. First of all with regard to the no-fly zone, I believe that it would be a great mistake to become a party to this war. A no-fly zone is simple: it means that we should then shoot down Russian planes. If we did, it means that we would become a party to this war and that the entire European continent would be drawn into a conflict. Honestly, the fate of Ukrainians would be even worse. So I don't think it's healthy to do that. In terms of weapons, a few weeks ago, Belgium decided to buy new ones to deliver them to Ukraine. Unlike the previous situation, we do not communicate the details. The reason we did it before was that at that time, there had not yet been an invasion. Our reasoning was that we wanted to show Russia that Ukraine had partners. Meanwhile, everyone knows that Ukraine is not alone in this war. However, from a strategic point of view, we would not benefit by providing details of the nature of the weapons delivered. Our country has spent several million euros on new weapons delivered there. For hydrocarbons, the European Union is making irreversible choices, as we have seen in recent weeks. Belgium, for example, is extending its nuclear reactors. France has decided on new investments in nuclear energy. Germany has opted for an acceleration of its transition to renewable energy. These choices will help us, in the years to come, to completely turn our backs on Russia, to disconnect from it. The long-term impact of the decisions taken should not be underestimated. The objective is that, for this summer, two thirds of our energy dependence on Russia will be reduced. But if we do not import anything tomorrow, it would mean, for Europe, that almost half of its energy supply would be immediately cut off. If we were to do so now, as some say, it would result in us being plunged into an extremely serious economic crisis within a week. That is not helping Ukraine! On the contrary. If our countries are facing a dark red economic crisis, it would impact, in the first place, our ability to help Ukraine. Let us not forget that the current sanctions are stinging the Russian economy. Moreover, the implementation of these sanctions is carried out in the port of Antwerp. Of course, there are Russian ships in the port of Antwerp but the sanctions are applied. Not all products on the lists of products subject to sanctions pass through. Considerable efforts are being made to carry out meticulous checks. The reasoning for diamonds is the same. I know this subject is sensitive. But the European Commission's reasoning in the case of sanctions always aims to ensure that the impact is mostly on the other side by limiting the impact on our side. If we intervene, in one day, the diamond trade will move from Antwerp to Dubai: zero impact in Russia, total impact in Europe. For the moment, I think – and this is not an easy argument – that the current sanctions package is affecting Russia in its ability to wage war while preserving our economy. If we did not preserve our economy, it would not be good for us, but it would be even worse for the Ukrainian friends we want to help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u5	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Everyone can understand that you do not give details of the weapons provided. But we can also understand between the lines that you deliver handguns and not anti-aircraft weapons. There is a certain hypocrisy. We can deliver weapons that can be used against tanks and even to kill Russian soldiers. But we cannot deliver weapons that would fire on Russian planes from the ground. There's something wrong with that. A weapon is a weapon. As far as energy is concerned, you are obviously right. It is now that we must make important choices for, little by little, gradually, without haste, but not too long, to deliver us from our energy dependence. I note that you consider the extension of the two nuclear reactors to be an irreversible choice. I'm not sure that the ENGIE reading you're talking to is exactly the same. But who will live will see! So we'll see soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u6	Prime Minister, there must be one before and one after the Ukrainian Speaker's speech in the House. We cannot say, as you seem to do, that we are acting as usual, that we have not entirely heard the message, or rather, that we have many arguments against Mr Zelensky's new demands. I believe that they must be listened to, that they must be taken into account, that they must also be exemplary in comparison with other countries, particularly on the issue of diamonds and hydrocarbons. We must be so because you yourself have reminded us that we are at the heart of Europe, that it is part of the European family, that it is a member of the family and that we must come to its rescue. Today, we know that we are not doing enough. We know that our weapons do not stop the bloodshed. I'm really counting on you to have a front and a after speech from President Zelensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u7	Prime Minister, Minister, it seems that we have rolled from one crisis to another. Unfortunately, however, the corona crisis is not yet over. 200 patients with Covid-19 infection are still hospitalized daily. Each day, 11,000 people get infected, and that's probably an understatement. At the moment 2,800 people are in hospitals. Fortunately, there is also positive news. We note a decrease of 170 recordings in the intensive care departments. Of course, we owe this to the successful vaccination campaign. We note that the vaccines are working, and that is very important. The booster vaccines are also important, but there are still some shortcomings in this respect. In Flanders the vaccination rate is 70%, in Wallonia 53% and in Brussels 37%. So we're gonna need a catch-up. What is your response to the statistics that indicate that the number of withdrawals is increasing? Does the rise concern you? Do you think it is necessary to take certain measures again? What are the forecasts for the next few weeks? What about the capacity in the hospitals? Not only is the number of withdrawals increasing, but the influx of Ukrainian refugees can also increase the pressure on our healthcare system. Are you still planning initiatives with the Länder to boost the vaccination rate in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u8	Prime Minister, Minister, Easter holidays are on the doorstep and many people will be able to go out again for the first time after the sanitary measures, and they will do so together with friends and family. Indeed, thanks to the solidarity of all of us, we can go again with friends at the café, to the theatre, to cinema and even to a party. What we see much less is the situation in hospitals. That's where it looks like Corona's come back from never leaving. There is pressure due to the rising numbers, the delayed care and the loss of many care providers, 20% in some places. As much as we'd like to, Corona doesn't let us go yet. A lot of people wanted to put a booster in place, but the numbers dropped over the past few weeks. However, vaccination is the best way to tackle the pandemic. Prime Minister, Minister, what is your message to the people running towards freedom with open arms? How will you respond to the rising numbers and the rising pressure on care?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u9	I will answer the questions together with Minister Vandenbroucke. If you look at the figures, you will see that we still have 11,000 infections a day today. That number is even increasing. In itself, that's no surprise. At the time when we went to code yellow and dropped the vast majority of the measures, we knew that this would lead to a - hopefully temporary - increase in circulation. We can see that hospital occupation and intensive care are relatively low. It's about 170 shots, well below the limit of 300. The current situation is that the virus circulates but that it is less likely to lead to heavy cases of covid, and thus to long-term hospitalization. This situation allows us to live in a more normal way. There are few places to use masks. I want to be clear: for the moment there is no reason to question this. However, as we see that the figures do not improve further, we have decided, together with the Länder, to postpone the meeting of the Consultative Committee for a few weeks, until after the Easter holidays, in order to better assess developments. After the Easter holidays, we will have to revisit the situation. If the figures fall again, I believe that we can take a further step towards the complete disappearance of the measures. If we see that there is an increase in the occupation of intensive care, then of course we are in a different situation. I do not think we can make that decision today. So it seems to me to be a good thing to wait a bit. That does not mean that we should forget the reflexes we have. Vaccination remains our best protection. On the part of the population that has been given the booster shot, we are in the top three of Europe. There are few countries that do better in this area. But indeed, there is still margin to ensure that even more people get booster shot. I think wearing the mask in public transport makes sense. In fact, this also applies to places where people feel that they are too close to each other or where people who are vulnerable are mixing with people who are not wearing masks. Then maybe it's a good idea to wear the mask. That is an own assessment and I believe that people can make that assessment in the meantime. Ventilation is also a very important element. If the weather is better, it might be less unpleasant. If you feel sick, you can still get tested. It is still important to be able to be tested as soon as you feel sick. So we are in a situation where we can live relatively carefree, but in which we still maintain some basic reflexes. We also decided to wait a few weeks to see how this is evolving. The experts expect a decrease after the slight increase that came when more circulation was possible. If it turns out that it is going in a different direction, then we need to adapt to reality. That's what we've always done. We look at the figures, we listen to the experts and we take the measures that fit them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u10	Colleagues, the pandemic is not over. There's a lot of virus going around and it can make you ugly sick. Hospitals are again having a hard time, fortunately not in the intensive care department, but in the regular bedhouse. A lot of patients come in because of covid. There are also patients who come in for other reasons but appear to have covid and therefore require extra care. Furthermore, there are patients with flu. Of course, there is also a lot of delayed care that needs to be overtaken.. That's why the hospitals are having a hard time, but also because a lot of staff are failing. I think we all have to respect this. The current figures are not at all such that we can put the barometer away. However, they are not of the kind that we should return to code orange. The federal government pleads for three cautious weeks in code yellow, until the meeting of the Consultation Committee on 22 April. Three careful weeks, what does that mean? There are actually five set of rules. First, get the booster. There are too many people, including young people, who haven't been boosted. That makes them unnecessarily vulnerable. Mr de Caluwe, we are indeed asking the Task Force to think about how to motivate people more to get their spirits up in these circumstances. We'll have that conversation. Secondly, it is important to wear mouth masks where they are mandatory, namely at the pharmacist, at the doctor and in public transport. Let us also understand the fact that people who feel vulnerable want to continue wearing a mouth mask, including in the shop. If you feel vulnerable, you should not hesitate to use an FFP2 mask in closed rooms for additional protection. Thirdly, if you feel sick, stay home. Don't infect other people. Stay home if you feel sick. Whoever thinks they have covid can be tested. Tests are still available for free via the web application and testing is still the rule. In addition, use a self-test on time. The fourth rule is that those who came into contact with a sick person should be very careful themselves, especially if the sick person is someone from the household. We no longer impose quarantine in the literal sense of the word. However, we advise those who live at home with someone who is infected to show at least seven days of great caution when coming out. For example, those involved certainly wear a mouth mask and do self-tests. Finally, ventilation remains important, including in cafés, restaurants, party rooms and sports halls. It's not good to breathe a lot of air that's already been inhaled and exhaled by other people when flu and covid goes around. Cafés, restaurants, party and sports rooms have a very visible CO2 meter and we recommend taking action if the CO2 values are too high. That also continues to apply in our education, in our classrooms. Mrs Jiroflée, indeed, the Easter days are coming and we wish everyone happy days, but no doubt it will be three very cautious weeks in code yellow before the next Consultative Committee meets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u11	Prime Minister, Minister, I think that the Conciliation Committee is rightly being postponed. It used to be easier to predict the numbers. They had the infections and automatically followed the hospitalizations, the hospitalizations in intensive care and the deaths. Because of the vaccination that has changed and that link is much less clear, perhaps also because of the omikron variant. You are right to say that we must make a very strong commitment to prevention measures and that we must insist on this. I notice that this alertness is decreasing everywhere and that, for example, no one reacts in cafés where the CO2 meter hits. We must continue to bet on ventilating, vaccinating, boostering and wearing masks. People wearing masks have their reasons and they must be respected. Also bet on testing and self-testing remains very important. Thank you for the answers and for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister, I am pleased that this government remains alert. Precisely counting on this government to continue to do what it has done in the past period, namely to monitor the figures carefully, to monitor the situation properly and not to play panic football. I certainly agree that you will postpone the consultation committee for a while and see what the situation will be like in two or three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u13	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, week after week we are discussing rising prices, energy prices, pump prices, fruit prices and all kinds of food. All prices are rising at the moment. And just now, the employers, Voka, are asking for an index jump. They ask for an index jump again. At a time when the Belgian companies are making record profits, at a time when prices are blowing out, they ask that our people become even poorer. Prime Minister, the index also increases income if life becomes more expensive for our citizens. If we don't, we'll all be poorer together. The index is a cornerstone of our welfare state. The index is a buffer that the greens will always defend with hand and tooth. We already have a damn wage bill to ensure that our wages keep pace with those in neighbouring countries. That wage bill therefore makes an abstraction of the billions of wage subsidies and RSZ discounts that employers receive. Colleagues, of course we must be vigilant about the risk of a wage price spiral. Just yesterday, the governor of the National Bank said in this Chamber that this is not currently included in the projections. The wage gap with neighbouring countries is likely to increase slightly but is not dramatic at the moment. However, the National Bank warns against a "collapse of consumer confidence." If trust collapses, we all lose. Prime Minister, I have a question...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u14	Gentlemen ministers, there is a wonderful saying in West Flanders: if things go well in construction, the country is doing well. It's not going well in construction, Mrs Willaert, it's definitely not going well in construction. There are even stone bakeries lying still, because they can no longer pay the gas price to bake stones. Cement has doubled in price, steel has doubled in price, not only because of Ukraine, but because of speculation. That's what happens on the market. Even the farmers are withholding grain today to increase the price. The construction industry is perhaps like the canary in the coal mine, Minister, the fact is that a worker to fill the tank of the car must work two days today. Despite efforts to reduce VAT on electricity, electricity in one year has become almost 50% more expensive and natural gas almost 150 % more expensive. Anyone who wants to fill his shopping cart will pay 5 % more. In one year's time, ladies and gentlemen, our lives have become 8.3 % more expensive. That means we depleted 8.3 %. That's right, we're impoverished. Even if we save our money, we won't get anything for it. The ECB even gave rise to negative interest rates. We are therefore 8 % impoverished in a year's time. We have already experienced this situation, Prime Minister, in 1983. I don't know if you were born yet, but I am. That situation ended with a devaluation of 8.75 %. Then there was something we could do with interest, with savings. What one had to turn in, one also got interest. One had to pay for credit, but got interest. Minister, money is constantly being spent. There's a gap in the budget that we haven't seen in ages. I wonder how you'll solve the problem. We can't do a devaluation. I am not in favour of an index jump, which I will talk about later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u15	Prime Minister, Minister, because of the war in Ukraine, the BNB has decided to update its economic forecasts and the results have been communicated. In a context of great uncertainty, we need to be more careful and proactive. Indeed, there will be a slowdown in the economy. Growth will be lower than expected in 2022 and will also decline in 2023. With regard to inflation, the BNB, which forecast a 4.9% increase, now has an average of 7.4%. Inflation at such a level will mean a loss of competitiveness for our companies. In addition to rising energy prices, wage costs are expected to rise by more than 10% over the period 2022-2023, reaching even 13% by 2024. These figures are corroborated by the FEB, which estimates an uncontrollable additional cost of EUR 20 billion. If we do not talk at this stage of economic recession, the fear of the snowball effect price/indexation has become, I fear, a reality. Despite the automatic indexation of wages, citizens are raising concerns about their purchasing power and companies are raising concerns about their competitiveness. Workers are also very concerned about safeguarding their jobs. All expect from the political world a proactive approach and preventive actions for a set of sectors. As you will have understood, I would like to know what your priorities are and what actions you are going to take in the near future to avoid a loss of competitiveness of our companies, while at the same time ensuring the purchasing power of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u16	I would like to remind you that we should logically dispense with papers to ask our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u17	Life's gonna be priceless. Inflation is estimated at 8.3%. Gasoline has become 25% more expensive. Diesel has become 36% more expensive. Natural gas has become 148% more expensive. Who else can follow? Who else can afford that much more? The situation is becoming unacceptable and the anger of the workers is only growing. Workers are asking for wages to follow and they do not understand why this government has blocked the increase to 0.4%. I was present yesterday at the strike picket of the AGC workers in Moustier-sur-Sambre: these workers have their wages blocked because of you, because of your royal order. They negotiate a 90 CTC, in other words the only way to raise wages somewhat, with an agreement on paper from the boss as to the payment of a bonus of 1,000 euros if the figures are encountered in terms of absenteeism, productivity... and, overnight, the boss refuses to apply the agreement and to grant the premium! Do you find that normal? All this while the AGC Group will redistribute 350 million euros in dividends! Because here, everyone talks about competitiveness, but talk about business, talk about profits: 350 million dividends for AGC, 868 million dividends for AB InBev, 400 million dividends for Solvay, 400 million also for Ageas! Many companies have made a lot of profits! There's no mention of that, not a word. It's business, business, business. For their part, workers should see their wages blocked! We've been fighting for a year and a half now. Trade union organizations have deposited 80,000 signatures to discuss the revision of the 1996 Act. For the first time, I hear comrades from the PS, Vooruit, Groen but not from Ecolo, expressing their will to review this law. The pressure is finally starting to work! Mr Dermagne, can you confirm that you are going to ask Mr. From Croo?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u18	Colleagues, when life becomes more expensive, wages and pensions automatically increase. There is almost no simpler mechanism than indexation. Is life more expensive today than it was yesterday? Has it become harder to pay the energy bill? Do people pay more for the full shopping cart at the cash register? Does anyone need to be convinced of that? Unfortunately, yes. Even today, employers are calling for automatic indexation to be skipped once. Even today, when people are having a hard time, they make that call. Even today, employers who have made huge profits over the past year and have raised prices themselves are not prepared to give a fair share to their employees out of solidarity. That's what we're seeing today. Mr. Prime Minister, what can the government do if our citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to pay the invoices at the end of the month? Then there are two options. Firstly, we can continue to discuss whether or not wages should automatically increase. Either we choose to create clarity and provide security for our people. There is already enough uncertainty. There are indeed many reasons why prices are rising so rapidly: yes, there was a pandemic, yes, there is war in Europe, yes, there is scarcity. But whoever's having a hard time at the end of the month doesn't need that apology. It is clear to the Socialists, Prime Minister. Once the index was introduced and we defended it over and over again. I'm sure you'll do it again now. In any case, it is clear to us that there must be certainty. I therefore put the following question to you, Prime Minister. Your government has taken steps to strengthen purchasing power. You have also mentioned the importance of automatic indexation. Can you say here and now clearly and forever that the government guarantees indexation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, when I recently drove the car to Brussels, accompanied by your soothing voice, I suddenly heard you say that we should be careful not to ruin the state and the citizen. At that time, I had my ears pierced and thought that you were building up the European Ttop, to top up gas prices and promote group purchases of gas. My first question is what you achieved there. My second question is whether you have done enough for energy prices at the moment. To my surprise, you are not occasionally in favour of a reduction in excise duties or a reduction in the VAT rate, at least not immediately. I ask myself whether that attitude is justified today. I ask myself whether we are doing enough to control the energy prices that are going to get out of control. Have you thought about the fact that the variability of contracts in our country results in an almost twice as high price increase as in our neighbouring countries, where fixed contracts are used? In fact, this is also a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Have you thought about how you could respond to electricity prices? The fact that the marginal price of gas at European level is so strongly influenced by the price charged for the rest of the electricity is a phenomenon which is difficult to explain to the public. The rest of the prices are also rising, because they are partly influenced by the energy price. That's how the index goes up. Mr Dermagne, on a previous occasion I asked you not to touch the index but not to touch the wage standard at the same time. If we find ourselves in a wage-price spiral, then the gate is of the dam. Finally, be careful with the interest, because it could ruin the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, basic spending is reaching a record level in terms of increase. The lowest incomes in proportion are the most affected. We're looking for answers. We're looking for explanations. We are told: "This is the pandemic. This is the Ukrainian crisis. It's war. Stop complaining, there are quite objective reasons for that!" And we're here with the feeling of being powerless. For the past year, on average 8.3% increase. The price of pasta, basic food for the most impoverished people: 10% increase! The real reason for this inflationary spiral is that there are people who are getting fatter. There are some who are laughing, but there are some who are fattening while others are laughing. They're the speculators. They are the ones who take advantage of the crisis to put their pockets on it. We must now be like President Zelensky. In the face of such strong and tragic events for our fellow citizens in terms of the prospect of everyday life, we must take action. In fact, we have tabled a bill – for which I will ask for urgency just now – to limit prices and better control them. My two questions are very simple, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. What are you going to do to limit the impact of inflation on households? What are you going to do to stop the indecent overprofits that some are now recording? A scandal is taking place in Belgium. There are people who suffer, especially the most impoverished. When I hear the bosses say that automatic indexing of wages must be abolished, this is not the case because without this automatic indexing of wages, it would be even worse!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u21	These are particularly difficult times, with high energy prices, rising food prices and rising prices for other products that are sometimes not expected to be. Very many people, even in the middle class, the water is on the lips. This requires a bold approach to a phenomenon that we see today in many countries in the Western world, namely the spiral of inflation. However, we are not alone in this turbulent world. As is the case with the energy crisis, I am convinced that we can achieve a great deal together in the field of European cooperation, especially in order to combat the rise in food prices. Mr Geens asks what the European summit has achieved. There are three main points. Firstly, there is the possibility of buying gas together. This avoids countries bidding against each other to gain access to gas when they turn their backs on Russia. Secondly, there will be coordination to ensure security of supply. In the area of gas, this is not so obvious because it has to be physically transported and there must be reserves. Thirdly, the Commission has been asked to take measures together with industry to intervene in the market if necessary, for example through price ceilings. That is a stick behind the door, which must make it very clear to speculators, for example, that we are prepared to intervene if there are uncontrolled prices. We need to do a number of things together with other European countries. There are also many things we do ourselves. In this energy crisis, we have taken a great deal of action, for almost EUR 4 billion: VAT reduction, social tariff, energy premium, fuel prices, etc. By comparison, in the majority of cases, we have done more than the countries around us. My message is a very clear one. This government is standing by and will never accept that our middle class, our middle class or our small businesses are in danger. We're not leaving anyone behind. We have two main objectives: to protect purchasing power and to ensure that our SMEs and our businesses do not go down. The energy package has shown how decisive this government can show. We will also have to do so in other areas. There is a war in Ukraine, but there is also a war in the people's portfolio today. Taking measures to achieve these two objectives will be the absolute priority for this government in the coming weeks. The indexing of people is a crucial tool to protect people's purchasing power. I don't think there's anyone in the government who's questioning that today. Mr Hedebouw, you naturally have a tendency to simplify things. You say that workers' wages are blocked. In an easy way you completely forget the existence of indexing. This indexing works. In other countries it is negotiated, and in our country it is automatic. You have spoken a lot, but in the meantime we have made historic choices: raising minimum wages, for example. You're talking about it, but this government did. As far as the protection of purchasing power is concerned, you will remain in your position of talking about it. But we will take the necessary steps. This government is taking charge. We have done so during the energy crisis, and we will continue to do so. We will also do so during this inflation crisis that affects us. Our policy has achieved results. In the covid crisis, it was said that there would be a wave of bankruptcies, but I have absolutely not seen that wave of bankruptcies. There was even a reduction in the risk of poverty in our country. Ive Marx of the University of Antwerp even called it an unprecedented reduction in the risk of poverty, his colleague Wim Van Lancker of the KUL spoke of a decline due to the corona policy. At a difficult time, the government has managed to remove all the risks and fears that have been raised and to reassure people. Just as we reassured and helped people during the corona crisis, we will also take the necessary steps in this inflation crisis. It is the government's most important yard for the coming weeks and we will take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, thank you for the reminder you have just made of the actions of our government and the firm commitments made by this government and by this majority, particularly with regard to the maintenance of the mechanism of automatic indexation of wages and allowances. Of course, the historical figure reached by inflation in March is of particular concern, indeed, as is the troubled times we are going through today. But in view of the situation in Ukraine, we can feel happy and proud to live in a free and peaceful country. We must continue to be proud of this and to do everything possible to ensure that it does. And it is this government's will to help the weak first, the weakest, and those who need it most. That is what we have done, with a whole series of measures. The Prime Minister has just recalled: more than EUR 4 billion in support of the weakest and middle class in this country. You have to say it, you have to call it back. Is that enough? No doubt not in relation to the impact of inflation, of the explosion of energy prices, of fuel, in the daily life of the whole population, and especially for the weakest. But studies have shown this: two mechanisms have particularly well protected a large part of the population in Belgium: automatic indexation of wages and allowances, and the extended social tariff that we have defended and extended. So, of course, the times are cloudy. They're a cause for concern. But it is also the duty of a government to keep its head cold and to tell the people, businesses and entrepreneurs that, if the situation is difficult, if the situation is harsh, if it is particularly unsustainable for some, there is not yet a danger in the house. As Mrs Willaert pointed out, the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium said yesterday: we are not yet in a disastrous scenario of a spiral wage-price spiral. The forecasts, even if they remain uncertain in the context we are going through today, are that inflationary pressure is expected to fall in the near future. Of course, the issue of price control is important. Of course I follow the price increases closely, thanks to the work of the FPS Economy and the Price Observatory. As you probably know, I have asked the National Bank to investigate whether companies use high inflation as an excuse to increase their margins. This analysis is currently being studied in cooperation with the Belgian Competition Authority and the Prize Observatory. It would be unacceptable, indecent, indefensible for some or some to take advantage of this crisis, these tensions, this particularly troubled climate to enrich themselves on the backs of the weakest. Be reassured, Mr Lacroix, with this government, this majority, I will fight against such behaviour. I will not go back to the various measures that the Prime Minister recalled in terms of support for purchasing power, support for the population, and particularly for the weakest, in terms of energy. But I would like to reiterate here, firmly and solemnly, that this government does not intend to affect the mechanism of automatic indexation of wages and the lowest allowances. It must be said, to remind the population. It is also a message to be addressed serenely to the world of business. Of course, we will continue to help those businesses that need it. We will continue to help the world of work through the crisis, as was the case during the Coronavirus crisis, with the results we are experiencing today in terms of job creation and the reduction of unemployment in the three regions of this country. We will continue to help those who need it to go through this new crisis. Finally, as the Prime Minister has said, it is also important, alongside the work being done in Belgium, to continue the fight at European level to ensure that our economic autonomy is strengthened. Belgium, a small country with a green economy, can do nothing alone! This fight must be fought at European level. We need a European approach to energy, market control and the fight against indecent speculation. We must also continue to work for our economic and industrial autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your reassurance. Indeed, this government has already made a great deal of effort in terms of the purchasing power of its citizens. The indexation of wages remains crucial. To be sure, I repeat our clear message: with the Greens in the government there will be no index jump, never, never, jamais. If wages were the key factor for a competitive and competitive economy, Moldova, the poorest country in Europe, with the lowest wages, would be an economic paradise. Is Moldova committed to research, development, innovation and training? Very little. Does the country invest in the infrastructure? Very little. Are people committed to well-being at work? Very little. Prime Minister, I am proud of the social model in our country. A unilateral fixation on wages is murderous for workers, for our economy and for social peace in our country. The debate should be wider (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u24	Ministers, when inflation was 8% 40 years ago, a PS minister said that the gap in the budget had arisen and that it would automatically disappear. It's taken 20 years. Fighting inflation is well known by increasing the interest rates. This isn't possible right now. You are right, indeed, that a lot of money is being spent on the underclass of the population. I do not mean this in the pejorative sense of the word. I'd better say at the bottom of the ladder. Minister, I am in favour of the index, because it protects purchasing power. However, there is one class that one always forgets, namely the class that always earns enough to pay taxes, but always earns too much to enjoy social benefits. This class accounts for between 50% and 60% of the population and is constantly in the cold. What will you do for that group of people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers that demonstrate the complexity of the situation. A comprehensive approach will be needed. We have always been clear: we do not question automatic wage indexation or the 1996 law. On the other hand, there is a lever on which we can act, that of taxation and para-taxation on labour. The government agreement also provides for a far-reaching reform in this direction, which should allow workers to pay more net wages while ensuring that they do not increase the wage costs for our companies. The coming months will not be easy. It will be necessary to concentrate all the forces within the government in order to provide concrete answers to the situation we are experiencing and which is likely to deteriorate. This must be your priority and we will be there to help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that the debate on the index jump is actually a fake debate. None of the parties, right or left, want an index jump. The VBO knows that very well. They know very well that this is not the debate today. They lit a counterfire because they know that the real debate is the 1996 law, and the pressure is increasing! The manoeuvring is very clear: the boss says you need an index jump; everyone says you don't need it! This avoids the real debate that no one is reacting to, namely the pressure to review the 1996 law. We're not gonna let go! All these workers know very well that there are many sectors that make huge profits. It's not the crisis for everyone! In all these sectors, workers must have the right to seek more than 0.4% of wage increases. And this small step of two between the Vivaldi and the boss on the relevance or not of an index jump, this show time, the union organizations understood it well! Thanks to a petition of 87,000 signatures, the debate will begin next week, and we will be back!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u27	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, none of the questioners were there. I asked a very clear question, Prime Minister. Do you guarantee there will be no index jump with your government? In fact, that was a trick question, because I do not have to tell you that this will not be the case with the socialists in your government anyway. So let us stop wasting time on that discussion and focus on the real problem. Even with indexation, it is very difficult for many people to get around at the end of the month. Even with indexation, additional measures will be needed to safeguard purchasing power. (Protests from Mr De Decker)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u28	Thank you for your clear answers regarding the gas price cap and the European Union. Trust is essential for an economy, for consumers, for entrepreneurs and for investors in our bonds. During the corona crisis and during the financial crisis in our country, we have demonstrated that we can maintain that confidence of consumers, entrepreneurs and investors. Today we sometimes talk about inflation as if it falls on our heads and we can't help it. The energy price is the most important driver. Look at everything that drives that energy price and we could only do something about it in Belgium. I understand that it is an international fact, but it is also a Belgian one. For example, the variability of contracts is an important aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u29	Prime Minister, Minister, last December Solidaris indicated that one in two people in Wallonia and Brussels had difficulty paying for their health care. Where are they now, as it becomes difficult to fill a shopping cart for food, clothing and - due to energy problems - to heat up? In exceptional circumstances, exceptional and historic measures are required. Political voluntarism is necessary, as you have indicated. We must fight speculation and the cynical enrichment of some. Similarly, price control is essential to prevent increases that are totally unjustified in certain areas. The situation is historic! We must protect the purchasing power of our citizens and we must protect them by all possible means. The solidarity of all, including the widest shoulders, is required in this moment of exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more and more people are having trouble paying their invoices, making ends meet, and it even became apparent when they paid for the contents of their shopping cart at the cash register. That's what a poll by DPG Media last week shows. DPG Media has been on the grant infusion for years. Every year you give 178 million euros to the media companies in this country, of which DPG Media receives an important share. Even though DPG Media turned 1.9 billion euros in 2021 and the company realised a net profit of 228 million euros, you continue to put tens of millions of euros in each year as if it were a scatter. We don't get objective news in return. Our taxpayers' money does not ensure that all political parties are treated equally. We would think that public money would also ensure equal treatment. VTM colors your day, but apparently also the news. It is incomprehensible that in the current difficult times, when you do not find money for structural measures to reduce the energy bill, when you have no money to curb inflation and protect our people's savings and when you have no regard for the increasingly expensive shopping cart, you can continue to subsidise the press, which pockets hundreds of millions of euros a year. Why do you apply bags of money and subsidies to the media companies every year while our people are suffering? When will you find the political courage to finally abolish these subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u31	Minister, DPG Media has announced that it will close the printing works in Lokeren and will have Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen printed in the Netherlands from now on. By the way, DPG Media has had a very good year, with a turnover of 1.9 billion euros and almost a quarter million euros profit. I'll give it to them. Anyone who has a good business model can make money from me. One thing I have more difficulty with is the many subsidies that indirectly, via the newspaper distribution, go to all those media companies. Not only DPG Media has had a good year, but also for other media groups. The question then arises as to why this EUR 800 million is needed in an entire legislative period. We have tabled a proposal to make a short cut in this respect. By the way, that was a bill written by the liberals. The only thing we have changed is the name of the author. We have deleted the name Van Quickenborne and replaced it with the names Freilich and Francken. However, the Liberals voted against. So this government continues to give money for subsidies that are not really necessary. Minister, you have a great responsibility. This is about the people's pennies. If I were to put my own wallet next to you, that would be a symbolic gesture, but people's money is not symbolic. You'll get the population's wallet. Please handle this carefully, in the same way that you would spend your own money. This is money through windows and throwing doors for subsidies for companies that make millions of profits. Mr Minister, is it possible to stop this flow of subsidies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u32	Mr Van Lommel, Mr Freilich, the decision of DPG Media to re-localise newspapers outside Belgium is, of course, particularly unfortunate, for the employees of the Belgian branch. However, this does not change the newspaper concession. As you know, the concession does not relate to the printing of newspapers but to their distribution. The aim of the concession is to promote freedom of the press and to make the distribution of newspapers cheaper. For example, the price of subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals can be significantly reduced. Without the concession, these subscriptions would become priceless for many citizens. This would put the Belgian media sector in difficulty and seriously threaten the freedom of the press. It is essential for me as a democrat to defend this freedom. The government has therefore decided to launch a new newspaper concession for a period of five years. However, I can tell you that we have reduced the cost of the concession. The press is working more digitally and the number of paper subscriptions is falling. As a result, we can greatly reduce the cost of the concession to the State. We have set a maximum for the prize that the candidates can present to us. Thanks to this ceiling, the cost to the State could be reduced by at least EUR 12.5 million by 2023 and then by an additional EUR 6.25 million each year. This is a decrease of about 4% a year. We do so without compromising the main objective. We keep the price of newspapers and magazines low for citizens. That is a good objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u33	Minister, it is high time that subsidies to media companies were abolished. Immediately. For our people who are having a hard time and cannot pay their bills, there is no money. That companies like DPG Media make hundreds of millions of profits a year thanks to the subsidy jackpot that completely disappears into the profits figures and the pockets of the shareholders is apparently not a problem. DPG Media takes over one media company after another with state money, but in the meantime they close printing works, put people on the street and let them print newspapers abroad with our money. You don't get to explain that to the people. So get rid of those subsidies to those biased media companies and choose our people for the first time!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u34	Minister, you are talking about freedom of the press. I note that there is also freedom of the press in the Netherlands, in Germany. Has there been any concessions there to help and encourage newspaper distribution? I don't think so. France has found a good way to beg the newspapers. There are subsidies, but only for those areas where it is not economically profitable to go door to door, because they are rural areas, because they are areas where there are not many people. There's a grant to beg the newspapers. Freedom of the press is of course important, but it is a delusion to say that there is no more freedom of the press if we stop these subsidies for the distribution of newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the situation in the package sector is not new. The CEO of PostNL Belgium is in jail. Lots of packages can't be delivered. The couriers have to work under lamentable conditions. We are talking about a criminal organization, forgery in writing and trafficking in human beings. That situation is not new, we talked about it six months ago, but what does politics do? What did your government do? Actually, nothing yet. N-VA has put forward a legislative proposal very quickly to introduce joint and several liability in the parcel sector as well. The joint and several liability means that the main contractor is responsible for the entire chain of subcontractors. It also means that he has access to social security so that he can carry out checks himself. That system works, because it has already been introduced in the construction sector, the cleaning industry, the meat industry and the surveillance sector. So it is a simple solution that can be introduced very easily. Mr Minister, are you prepared to discuss my proposal, along with colleagues across party boundaries, and work together to tackle the problems in the package sector in a firm way?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u36	Mr Minister, the CEO of PostNL Netherlands does not think it is possible that the management is in jail. Multinationals therefore call for impunity. I called a PostNL employee this afternoon. He told me they work at PostNL with strangle contracts. The employees work 10 to 12 hours a day in incredible circumstances. As a result, for example, they are putting children to work to help. The employees are also afraid as PostNL's management puts pressure on them. If they told you anything, they'd lose their job. So the CEO complains about the conditions in prison, but he doesn't complain about the situation of his own employees working day after day in appalling conditions! The liberalisation of this sector as a whole leads to increased profits and increased competition and poverty among people. PostNL has made a profit of 17 million euros. 17 million euros profit! And what do the employees get? They get 1 euro per parcel delivered! If the package cannot be delivered, for example because the customers are not at home, they get nothing! That is the reality. So we're not actually talking about an employee-employer relationship anymore, we're talking about a slave-master relationship. I know you're working with Minister de Sutter on a postal bill. That must be a good law that regulates everything and ensures that there can no longer be exploitation as it is now. However, there are still many questions about the division and control of the law in the field. I therefore have a few questions for you, Minister. How will you ensure that such practices will no longer occur? Will PostNL be punished? Will you, as a minister, do anything to combat this bogus self-employment and subcontracting throughout our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u37	Mr Minister, at the PostNL Summit, people are outraged, because the rules seem to apply to them as well. How is it that the company thinks it's above labour laws? While our companies recruit employees and pay social security contributions, PostNL celebrated ten years ago. After all, there had been a way of circumventing collective agreements. They were proud of that. We are seeing the consequences of this today. The courier gets 1 euro per package, and if no one is home, he gets 0 euro per package. That's why all those bogus self-employed couriers drive around unpaid hours and hours. Without insurance, even without a driver's license sometimes. How are they supposed to make ends meet? I just can't do that for those people. Minister, it starts by bypassing collective agreements and ends with children who are sorting out packages in the trunk. We can no longer tolerate that race to the bottom. Luckily, we don't either. There are more and more raids at courier companies. There are more and more warnings, fines and now arrests. It's a good thing this is happening. Minister, I would like to ask the government to intervene if companies fail to comply with the rules. We in Vooruit support the amendment of the postal law, which will put an end to these abuses. What structural measures will you take to stop the abuses and malpractices in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u38	Minister, the last week has been a busy week in the packing companies. It was not the traditional hustle and bustle in the sector, but there was a lot of stress and nervousness in management and top people. Both the parquet and the social inspection again invaded PostNL. As always after several reports of possible social fraud, it was also this time, last week first at DPD, the last few days at PostNL. Once again, these are undeclared work, infringements of part-time work and infringements of all kinds of social legislation. Unlike last time, they moved on. This time not only was the depot sealed, they even went on to arrest some of PostNL's top people. Trafficking in human beings, forgery in writing and numerous violations led to their disappearance in prison. Packing's gonna last. After all, there is already an ongoing trial against GLS and PostNL and there were already seals in the past. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Is the possible introduction of a chain responsibility for packaging companies part of the solution? When will the so often announced reform of the postal law finally come? Can we finally give the police and the labour auditorates the resources and staff to deal with the abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u39	Colleagues, as you know, judicial investigations are under way. So I cannot go into all the aspects that you are talking about. Nor is it for me to comment on the statements made by others on the facts in question. I know that such a procedure is difficult, but it is essential that the necessary measures are taken to guarantee decent working conditions for all workers in the sector. I offer my full support to the affected workers. I am satisfied with the consistent work of the inspection services and I would like to thank them. As you know, the joint and several liability of subcontractors is governed by the law of 12 April 1965 on the protection of employees' wages. It is only a question of remuneration as such, and this requires a subpoena procedure. It is indeed an instrument that can be effective, Mr Freilich, but it is only one of many. As far as the future of the sector is concerned, my fellow Minister De Sutter has an ambitious plan to put the sector in order. We work together to make a lot of progress as soon as possible and are open to any cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u40	Mr Minister, I have taken note of the content of your colleague's draft law, which is being worked on and which is already being accused of being disproportionate in my view. One shoots a cannon at a mosquito. I am convinced that Europe will never allow that. The joint and several liability is already successfully applied in the parcel sector in Germany. I hear you saying that you are willing to work together across party boundaries to find a solution. I'll take that offer with both hands. I look forward to being able to deal effectively and very quickly with the abuses in the parcel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with you that the inspection has done a very good job. They deserve our appreciation. But they're just moving on. According to my information, PostNL has opened a new depot again. The company is just working on it, even if it's been dealt with once. It doesn't stop. That's a problem, isn't it? Besides, the postal bill shouldn't be an empty box for us. The employees are worried. One risk, for example, is that companies are splitting up, allowing companies to continue as they are now. So the system is fundamentally wrong. We need to do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u42	I'd like to commend the inspection service for its decisiveness. The Staff Regulations in the Postal Act are also important for the Forward Group. That is less important for Mr Freilich. UNIZO said this morning that self-employed people should flourish. Which self-employed persons are involved? Is this about the underage bike messenger who drives around with food in Brussels while he is in school, or is it about bike couriers who drive around without protection when they run into the plains, or is it about a parcel delivery guy who has to work 12 hours a day, stop 200 times and just don't get around with his money? No self-employed person can compete with that in a fair way. We need to put an end to these malpractices. We have to make companies comply with our rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u43	Our country is not a third world country. A normal wage for normal working conditions is an acquired right with us. An employee or self-employed person who works for a parcel company should be able to do so under the same conditions as any employee and any self-employed person in our country. We do not accept undeclared work. We do not accept that people are employed in illegality. We do not accept child labour. Finally, we need to work on solutions. I've questioned you about this a few times over the past few years. Always comes the answer that you are working on, that Mrs De Sutter is reforming the postal law, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Let's get these things done. Work on chain responsibility. Work on adjusting the postal bill. Make sure that the public prosecutors and the Social Inspectorate finally have the resources and staff to fight these crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u44	Mr President-in-Office, inflation is skyrocketing, causing people to lose purchasing power. They find it difficult to pay their bills and the high energy bills. In particular, the high fuel prices make it difficult for them to fill their almost empty fuel tank at the gas station. This morning I almost fell off my seat when I heard that your Green colleagues came up with a solution, namely the reduction of the maximum permitted speed on motorways to 100 km/h. This would reduce CO2 emissions, which would benefit the environment, while at the same time reducing fuel consumption and thus saving the driver's wallet. Minister, that is not the solution the motorist is waiting for. He wants to be able to fill his tank for an affordable price. If we follow Green's logic and ideas, we will go to carless Sundays, which will also target the driver, or perhaps to the re-use of horse and cart or even to the use of a car like the Flintstones, which must be moved by feet. I have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, the road code stipulates that a maximum of 120 km per hour may be driven on motorways. What will you do with your Green colleagues' proposal to reduce the maximum permitted speed on motorways to 100 km per hour? Secondly, you always say that mobility means freedom. How will you ensure that mobility is an affordable freedom for drivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u45	Madam President, Minister, allow me to opt for the Ukrainian flag today. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we read in the press the green idea of reducing speed on all motorways to 100 km per hour, primarily because of high fuel prices. That was obvious. Much less was the proposal motivated by the possible impact on road safety and on the environment. At least for the time being, the proposal would be temporary and only apply during the day. Colleagues, it may be very clear. During the Swedish period, with us, it would not have been true and also not with the CD&V of then, the Open Vld of then or the MR of then Minister Bellot, who repeatedly ruled against a global speed reduction on the highways. Mr. Secretary, of course you belong to another club. Your partymates belong to the club of Ecolo-Groen. That is a one and indivisible fraction, I would think. I therefore assume that they share the same views and share the same ideas. I therefore suspect, with all due respect, that you share these ideas. I just haven't heard you say it yet. Mr Minister, I am very happy to give you the opportunity to do so here. Are you interested in the idea of Green or not? Yes or no? That's a very simple question. Will your cabinet take an initiative in this matter? Do you have the support of your coalition partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u46	Madam President, Mr Raskin, I hope first of all that you are in favour of freedom of expression. That is very important in a democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard President Zelensky. The war in Ukraine has caused tragedies in his country, but here too we all feel the consequences. Today we are stuck with fossil fuels and with undemocratic regimes. This is the result of years of non-energy policy in our country. As a result, we now have sky-high prices for heating, electricity and mobility. Now Belgium finally has a long-term strategic vision, with the energy transition reaching 100 % of renewable energy. Our mobility is an important lever for these energy objectives. Does it help to adjust the speed on the highway to 100 km per hour? This measure is recommended by the International Energy Agency and by transport experts. In the Netherlands, a liberal government introduced it. Slower driving on the highway can be recommended, because that certainly has advantages. We need less fuel, which is good for the wallet and our energy independence. There is a better flow and so there are fewer traffic jams, which is good for our economy. Less CO2 is emitted, which is good for the climate. Less fine dust is released, which is good for our health. And there are fewer road accidents, which is good for road safety. Is this supposed to be a general rule? I will certainly discuss this further with my regional colleagues who are responsible for Mobility, and with whom I work very well. However, the question is not currently on the table of the federal government. As Minister for Mobility, I would first and foremost advise everyone to opt for active modes of transport, public transport and the train, because that is the best response to mobility, even more so in this energy crisis. Mobility is indeed a freedom. Public transport, with the train as the backbone of our mobility, is the answer, also to become less dependent on fossil energy and Putin. That's where we have to work full speed, at 300 km an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but the Flemish interest fits for a new round of car drivers bullying, as the Greens want. At one of the rare times that we are not in traffic in Flanders, the greens want to take the speed of 120 km/h to 100 km/h. This indeed reduces CO2 emissions, but at the same time the same green gas plants want to build up massive CO2 emissions. The logic of that escapes me completely, and I do not think I am the only one there. Mr Minister, one out of two Flemings says that the car should be allowed to operate occasionally because of the high prices at the pump. It's not the speed that has to go down. It's the prices at the pump that have to go down. That is why, with the Flemish Interest throughout Flanders, we are conducting a large campaign for affordable parking for everyone, with temporary maximum prices of 1.6 euros per litre. I invite you to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u48	Minister, I asked you a specific question. I've especially remembered that you don't know very well. Or you won't be able to speak out on it yet. In any case, the Green Group is taking advantage of the geopolitical situation by trying again to ram a green dogma through the throat of the people. I fully understand people who consciously choose to slow down in order to save fuel. That is not the point at all, but, for God's sake, Minister, Green Members, let citizens be free to decide what they want to spend their money on and what posts they want to save money on. Cut the government bullshit. That's so typical green.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u49	Minister, I do not know if you still often have the opportunity to take the train. I'm not sure how it goes on the connection with Namur either. In any case, the situation on the north-south axis between Antwerp, Brussels and Charleroi is sad. Imagine the person who at the beginning of the year intended to opt for sustainable mobility and take the train. Based on the time schedule, this person thought he had a good connection. So he or she chose to come by train to Brussels instead of by car. This person will now feel very deceived. Almost one in two trains within the train offer per hour does not run. Since 21 February, after the corona crisis, the S-trains between Essen and Antwerp have in theory returned to full power. Since last Wednesday, these trains have been driving for two days. The other days they didn't drive. There are students who want to take their exams at school and arrive there half an hour late. You can imagine the kind of stress that entails. Students don't get on the train on Sunday nights because they work all year round on the weekends. Agreed, these works must be carried out. People arrive in Antwerp-Central on floor.......................................................................................................... However, the escalator hasn't worked for two weeks. The elevators have been broken the last few days, too. So the only solution was the stairs. But what if one is badly on one's feet? A train stops suddenly in Antwerp-Noorderdok. I don't know if you've ever been there before, but there's nothing there. It then sounds in flawed Dutch that the passengers have to get off and wait an hour for the next train. Mr. Secretary, it's no longer about minor annoyances. People are really angry. Train passengers come up with angry stories. In this way, the train cannot be the backbone of a sustainable mobility system. What will you do about it, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u50	Madam President, Mr Van den Bergh, I take the train to Namur as often as I can, but also to other regions, including Antwerp. As Minister of Mobility, I want to convince as many people as possible to take the train. As Minister for Train Passengers, I want there to be an optimal offer, so that those who choose the train have an optimal experience. That was not the case last week on the Essen-Charleroi line. I have asked for an explanation of this and SNCB recognizes the problems you are raising and apologizes. This morning trains had to be abolished due to staff shortages. The S32 has been in rotation for a few weeks, but has had many real-time cancellations this week due to absenteeism in the depot concerned, which has risen to 15%. As in the rest of society, the loss of staff due to illness also affects SNCB. Sometimes there are also technical problems with trains and equipment, causing obsolete trains to stop. In the event of problems in a workshop, colleagues from another workshop will jump in wherever possible and action plans will also be in place to improve this in a structural manner. The situation we are now in, I have inherited as a minister. It is the result of policy choices from the past, disinvestments and years of savings. We're turning that trend now. Since my arrival, the Vivaldi government has already given more than 1.5 billion extra support to our railway company, on top of the annual amount. We are now putting the train of the future on the right track. I'm out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u51	That's right. The rest will be on committee for an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u52	Minister, I am curious to hear the rest of your answer. We know the rhetoric and how one tries to reduce the problem, by focusing on the small part between Essen and Antwerp. It's about a lot more. For example, one train per hour still runs less between Antwerp and Brussels today than according to the normal timetable. The trains that do run are often not the large double deckers with 1,000 seats, but old, worn-out equipment, where people like herring are in a barrel, or rather, standing. The quality is really a problem. We know there's a piece of staff breakdown, but hiding behind it really isn't sustainable. People are pulling out. This way the train has no future, so we really need to work on that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u53	Madam Secretary, it's been messing around in the parcel sector for months. The top of a commercial company is in jail. That's unseen. The practices that are taking place there are unacceptable. It is good that the social inspection and the court are doing their job here. The rules are there and they must be respected. But we must be careful not to punish companies that do well. The competition in e-commerce is murderous. You are striving for a level playing field and for a level playing field before the law, and that is what we Liberals are only applauding. That's what we need. However, we must be careful with even more Belgian rules. We must beware of an even stricter regulatory framework in this e-commerce by offering additional rules, because Belgium has been lagging behind in this sector for years. How will you ensure a level playing field for all players in the e-commerce market, with respect for the employee, but also with respect for free competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u54	Mrs Verhaert, this subject has just been discussed. We have known for some time that there are abuses in the parcel delivery sector. The question is, of course, whether the current legislation can provide an answer to this. Of course, we have legislation, we have the social inspection and action is taking place. The evidence was delivered a few days ago, just like last week. It's about different companies. So we should not point the finger at one company. The question is why that happens. Is the current legal framework sufficient? My answer to that is no. We must act against fraud. We must control, maintain and punish. Creating the framework in such a way as to reduce the risk of fraud also seems to us to be a sensible way of ensuring that this sector is put in place preventively. We have heard testimonies from subcontractors who say they have to practice or go bankrupt. That is a terrible statement from someone who is active in that sector. The conditions in the sector actually give e-commerce and free entrepreneurship a bad reputation. You say that we must create a level playing field and not create additional rules that will make the market more difficult. My answer is that we will create a level playing field for all companies operating in Belgium in the distribution, in the delivery of packages, the last mile, wherever those companies are located, in our country or abroad. So that will not be a competitive disadvantage for our Belgian companies, nor an advantage. It'll set the bar for everyone. As you know, the preliminary draft, which is already circulating, takes account of the number of fixed contracts that we want to set up with the companies. That's something we can do. We have looked at this legally, including at European level. I would just like to say this because we are dealing with the fight against fraud. We will, of course, also take into account the ongoing public consultation and what the sector tells us. Some companies are already doing this, others will have to adapt. It's about everyone who's active in our country. The level playing field effectively means aligning the bar for everyone, to give this kind of disorder less chance at the source.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am somewhat concerned when I hear you talking about a number of fixed contracts, because we read that 80% of the contracts are involved. That's what worries me. I don't think we should throw the baby away with the bathwater. Give those entrepreneurs breathing space, don't take away the few breathing space they have yet. Create a level playing field, but please not with any more additional rules. Give the companies tools to follow if the rules are respected. Punish the companies with cowboy and malpractice. Madam Minister, please don't have any more additional rules, not with us as liberals in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u56	Madam President, Minister, a few weeks ago, Russia invaded Ukraine. Among the disastrous consequences for our country is an increase in the prices of energy and raw materials. It is said and often repeated: Ukraine was Europe's wheat attic. Today, there are not only shortages, but also significant price increases. The agri-food sector must live with this increase in energy and raw material prices. There are shortages. In fact, we were talking about a total cessation of certain sunflower oil cooking that is lacking in our regions. All agricultural sectors, all farmers have problems with their supply of raw materials, with the sale of their raw materials too; farmers pay very much for their food. On the other hand, all fertilizers have increased. Some fertilizers have seen their price multiplied by six, which is huge. We had to take care of things. You have done so this week by organizing this first meeting of the Task Force Ukraine, which brings together the federal authorities and the agri-food sector in the wider sense in order to take stock of the situation. It was important to do so and to move forward in thinking about a very important sector for us, which is in crisis today. Minister, what are the first results of this meeting? Have any measures already been put on the table? Has a strategy been developed? Do you intend, if necessary, to open up this kind of task force for sectors other than the agri-food sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u57	Madam President, honourable Member, what is happening in Ukraine today is first and foremost a human tragedy. The Ukrainian President's testimony reminded us of that. But it is also an event that has quite significant socio-economic consequences, whether directly with imports and exports that are now banned or weakened, but also indirectly with long-term uncertainty. For example, as far as the agri-food sector is concerned, it is not known whether there will be crops this autumn in Ukraine, since farmers do not work in their fields; they are fighting or are not allowed to work. We are therefore faced with uncertainty about the socio-economic situation. Since 24 February last, with the SPF Economy, I have been examining the situation on a day-to-day basis, whether it is price increases, the pressure on the availability of materials, but also other problems such as transport or the consequences for packaging. You gave the example of sunflower oil. It is clear that stocks in Europe will not be able to meet the needs beyond the next 15 days. For our country, which exports a lot of agri-food products that are cooked in sunflower oil, it is important to find a solution in the short term. That's what we're working on. Thus, in the coming days, we will be able to give authorisations for the use of products which can replace this oil which enters into the manufacture of our products especially dedicated to export. According to the Belgian Food Industry Federation, 50% of our companies are potentially out of stock and 70% of them will have to change ingredients. The task force, which I have set up in collaboration with my colleagues, Yves Dermagne and Eva De Beeker, aims to bring back to sectors all the information about the difficulties they are encountering in the way in which they have to deal with this crisis. We will then be able to find solutions to all the difficulties encountered, whether in terms of prices, availability or administration. This tool should enable us to deal with all the problems that unfortunately await us in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u58	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I know that this sector is important to you as well as to all sectors of the agri-food industry. In fact, when it comes to drinking or eating, everyone is interested. I also know that you will be paying attention to the whole sector to find solutions. The MR Group will certainly support you in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u59	Minister, when people commit a driving offence, a little speeding, poor parking, they get a fine at home. If they do not pay it, they receive a reminder, a second reminder, then they have the judicial officers and they have to pay. That's the law. Meanwhile, what do we learn? We learn that in some prosecutors' offices, and in particular in Brussels, there are cases of financial crime, i.e. serious crime. We're talking about big tax fraud. We're talking about money laundering for tens, hundreds of millions of euros. We learn that these files could be closed without further action and that the people behind them could get away with it. Why? Because there is a shortage of police officers in the Federal Judicial Police, i.e. judges and magistrates who are investigating. That was not said once. That has not been said twice. This has been said several times and at the highest level of the judiciary, prosecutors general, senior officials of the judicial police who request additional resources. We're talking about dozens of files that would be involved. Madam Minister, you must know that your colleague from Justice told us in the Justice Committee that he had written to the Commissioner General of the Police, the top federal police officer, for reinforcements. He told us that he had not received an answer at this stage. Madam Minister of the Interior, you who are the boss of the police, I am speaking to you. What about it? Yes or no, are these reinforcements going to happen to prevent Belgium from being in a state of injustice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u60	Madam President, Mr Laaouej, first of all, I want to thank the judicial authorities and the police for their commitment and sense of responsibility in the fight against organised crime. What they did in the Sky ECC file is remarkable and they will continue. Having said that, since I took office, we have taken the decision to strengthen the federal and local police, including the Federal Judicial Police. To do this, we made a commitment to recruit 1,600 police officers each year. We did it last year and we will do it again this year. From the beginning, we have already hired 200 people for the Federal Judicial Police. Thus, we compensated for the departures. I have also made a commitment to recruit an additional 195 police officers to the Federal Judicial Police. These are specialized profiles and general profiles. We have agreed with the Commissioner General and the Minister of Justice to strengthen the federal judicial police. In addition, we have already recruited specialized profiles for socio-economic and financial research. You also know that we have agreed on a sectoral agreement to strengthen the attractiveness of the integrated police force. All these initiatives are being taken and we will continue to take them. You know, as I do, that criminal policy is the responsibility of the Attorney-General and the Minister of Justice, but also that for financial investigations, it is the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office that has jurisdiction. Therefore, the police and the judiciary will have to work together. I can't go back to the disinvestments in security and the police in recent years. But what I can do today, I do, and I will strengthen the Federal Judicial Police. I hope that you and your colleagues here, but also within the government, will support me in this direction and also to look for the necessary means because, finally, that is also what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I take note of. It must always be said that when investing in the fight against financial crime or major tax fraud, it is not an expenditure, but an investment that brings resources back to the State. That is a good argument that can be made. On the other hand, you have everything in hand, with the Ministers of Justice and Finance, to meet with the Attorney General and the Chiefs of Police. It is indeed a matter of organising a real strategy to combat this crime which is a danger to our social and economic fabric, but which also destroys the State's coffers in a period when we need a great deal of resources to deal with everything that the State and people need, because they rely heavily on us. Moreover, with regard to these criminals, we need a real signal. No place should be left to impunity or a form of state weakness towards people who are, at this point, disrespectful of our institutions and the general interest - in short, the interests of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u62	Madam President, Secretary of State, today we have had a very important moment. The President of Ukraine, Mr Zelensky, has given us the honour of coming to us and of remembering fundamental things, our fundamental values: peace, the protection of democracy, and welcome. He thanked us, by the way. He thanked us for receiving so much solidarity with the 30,000 Ukrainian refugees who had arrived since the beginning of the conflict. He thanked us, but above all he thanked all the citizens who had mobilized. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them as well and to say that, no later than yesterday morning, which is why I would like to address you today, I was at the Conference of Mayors, elected representatives of my region, the Picardy Wallonia, and I was listening to the return of the mayors and presidents of CPAS, who are constantly mobilising, with great energy, to try to organize this reception, to organize it with serenity, with benevolence, and to allow every refugee to have a time of rest, a time of respite. They all said the same thing – I was able to compare my information with those of my colleagues – that is, it's complicated. It's complicated because we lack fluidity, communication with the federal level. We need, despite the energy of the services that work with you, more fluidity and communication with Fedasil. We need local authorities to be directly involved in a task force that can bring back the realities of the ground. We need more communication and organisation through the Interministerial Conference, for example. So, Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to integrate these local authorities into the momentum that you have been putting in place since the beginning of this conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u63	Madam President, Mrs Leroy, in this institutional lasagna, we have been talking to everyone for a long time. Even before this temporary automatic protection, the Interministerial Conference had met to discuss with the Regions. We all know that there is a complicated division of skills. Registration is done at the federal level, as is reception. We have emergency accommodation spaces of up to 5,000 that we have the ambition to create. On the other hand, there is structural housing. Housing is a competence of the Regions and attempts are made to involve the municipalities as much as possible. Mrs. Leroy, you're from Picardy Wallonia. I've been there lately. I find it important to go to the regions and talk to everyone. We work at federal and regional level, but I don't want to look at each other. We have to be together around the table for our entire skill. So we created the FAQ. A letter to the governors was sent to all the municipalities. A website has been created and a telephone number has been created for any request for information. A webinar was organized with all the municipalities on both the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking sides. Federal and regional ministers were present. Weekly meetings are held with the Prime Minister, my colleague Annelies Verlinden, the Ministers-Presidents of the Regions and myself. I repeat, the institutional lasagna in which we are sometimes does not facilitate things in a direct line and the municipalities cannot be impacted. The latter fulfil an important and not always obvious task. We must try to listen to them as much as possible. I will therefore do whatever is necessary to do so. I will return to Picardy Wallonia or any region to discuss and see how best to integrate issues and frustrations. In the meantime, I too would like to thank them for their exemplary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You're always welcome in Picardy Wallonia. Thank you because I think there is a lot of good will. This is the case with the local authorities, too. They still have a lot of good will, but a lot of information to deal with. It's going very fast. There's an emergency: 30,000 people, it's complicated. I hear you want everyone to get around a table. I can only encourage you to further fluidize relations and contacts, especially when it comes to hosting refugees in its territorial area who are sent directly by Fedasil. Making direct and automatic contact with the municipalities would be a good thing We would have to work with your colleague, Minister Lalieux, on the aids to be provided through the CPAS, to allow everyone to be there. Indeed, it is the will of each of these people who every day try to receive all refugees with dignity. It is good for us, it is good for the future and for the future of all the refugees who will come to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u66	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 13 January 2022, and as a result of the change in the conditions of appointment, a new call for candidates for the terms of office of alternate president and of French- and Dutch-speaking clerks of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 2 February 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 13 January 2022, a new call for candidates for the mandates of Deputy President and of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Registrar of the Disciplinary Board CREG appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 2 February 2022, as a result of the amended conditions of appointment. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for the terms of office of alternate president and French-speaking and Dutch-speaking clerks of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that you publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Deputy President and of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Registrar of the Disciplinary Board CREG. No observation? (No) That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u67	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meetings of 13 and 20 January 2022, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 9 February 2022 for the terms of office of an effective member (physician) and an alternate member (physician) of the Central Prison Supervision Board (CCSP). In accordance with the decision of the plenary sessions of 13 and 20 January 2022, a call for candidates for the mandates of an effective French-speaking member (doctor) and an alternate member (doctor) of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service (CTRG) appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 February 2022. The following applications were submitted: Candidates for effective membership: - Mr. Gisil Abdelmassih, doctor - Mr. Antonio Capizzi, doctor at Nivelles Prison Candidatures for the term of alternate member: - Mr. Gisil Abdelmassih, doctor - Mrs. Mehnaz Maleki, doctor at the Royal Military School. The following applications were submitted: Candidates for the mandate of effective member: - Mr Gisil Abdelmassih, doctor - Mr Antonio Capizzi, doctor at Nivelles Prison Candidates for the Deputy Member's term of office: - Mr Gisil Abdelmassih, doctor - Mrs. Mehnaz Maleki, doctor at the Royal Military School. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that you forward the CV of candidates to the political groups. Candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that the candidates' CVs be transferred to the political groups. The candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u68	By letter of 22 March 2022, Mr. Willem Verrijdt announced that he had resigned as an alternate member of Mr. Guy Cox, an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. By letter dated 22 March 2022, Mr Willem Verrijdt stated that he resigned as an alternate member of Mr Guy Cox, effective member of the Governing Council of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Human Rights. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u69	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of the motion for a resolution No 2619/1 by Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Denis Ducrame and Jasper Pillen, the authors of which request the withdrawal of the application for consideration. I refer these proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection and with the exception of proposal No. 2619/1 by Mr Denis Ducarme and Mr Jasper Pillen, for which the applicants request the withdrawal of the request for consideration. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall forward these proposals to the relevant committees. (Art. 75, No. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u70	Mr Vermeersch, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 2589/1 amending the Programme Law of 27 December 2004 to allow for a reduction of the special excise duty on motor fuels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are paying far too much for the pump. Fuel prices in Belgium are among the highest in Europe. Motorists are squeezed like lemons here. The price at the pump is half tax. While citizens have never paid so much at the pump, the government has never received this much revenue from taxes and excise duties on diesel and petrol. So the purple-green government is earning pockets of money from the fuel crisis. In other words, it is not the citizens who live above their standards, but the government. That situation is untenable for us. The Flemish Belang therefore resolutely draws the map of the Flemish motorist. We want excise duties on diesel and petrol to be reduced to an absolute minimum. That shouldn't happen in a month, not a week, not tomorrow, but right now. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u72	I propose that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u73	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 2616/1 to block excessive fuel prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to encourage you to vote urgently on this bill, which has the merit of bringing a clear solution and imposing a price freeze on petrol and diesel at EUR 1.40, with a reduction in excise duties, and of course indicating which sectors are getting richer as is not allowed, namely the war profiters of the oil sectors. I remind you that voting for the urgency does not mean that you agree with everything, but that you agree that there is an emergency, a social emergency. Therefore, the interpretation of the vote may be this: "Do you think there is an urgent need to reduce the price at the pump?" Do you think there's real urgency today, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u75	I propose that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u76	Mrs Thémont, you are asking for the urgency of Bill 2610/1 extending the various measures in the field of labour law for the benefit of the care and education sectors in the context of the fight against the spread of VOCID-19 coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u77	Madam President, this is simply labour legislation for the benefit of the health care and education sectors in the fight against the spread of coronavirus. It's just an extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u78	You will notice in a moment that we are going to vote against urgency, although we were going to vote in favour. In all honesty, if a proposal has seven signatories and it is not possible to justify urgency, it will force us to change our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u79	Madam President, on the contrary, we are going to support the request for an emergency, but we are going to have a major issue. Are you going to hire students to compensate the caregivers you're going to fire? That's the real question!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u80	I propose that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u81	Madam President, we have received the message that Mrs Verhelst of the Open Group and Mr De Maegd of the MR Group are absent for health reasons. The vote by Mrs Van Bossuyt and Mrs Ingels against that background is to be interpreted. They made a vote with the members concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u82	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 23 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 23 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 272/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Ben Segers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 272/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Ben Segers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u83	It is a motion that I think it will be easy for everyone to vote. And to vote in favour, because this motion asks nothing more than to ensure that the Prime Minister receives Life4Brussels and hears its representatives, in view of all the difficulties they have been encountering for six years in their assistance to the victims. I think that this motion can receive a minimum of support from all Members here, since it is only a question of meeting the association and listening to its demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u84	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u85	Yes 71 Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u86	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the External Relations Committee on 29 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 29 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 240/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 240/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u87	Madam President, the Syrian civil war has seriously changed the political situation in that region. One of the most striking consequences is the emergence of a de facto autonomous Kurdish region in the north and northeast of the country. On 17 March 2016, the Syrian Kurds proclaimed a federal democratic entity in the areas under their control. That region is also known as Rojava. However, the autonomous Kurdish region raises a great deal of resistance from, among other things, Turkey, which sees it as a threat to its own interests. The recognition of Rojava as an autonomous region would, among other things, and certainly not the least, protect the Kurdish people better. On Wednesday 20 October 2021, Catalonia was the only one to provisionally recognise that region as autonomous. As I pointed out in my speech, Belgium could take the lead in recognising the autonomous administration of Northern and Eastern Syria as its first country. According to our party, there are sufficient reasons to recognise the autonomous administration in Western Kurdistan. Those people have a right to their own sovereign state. Amidst all these autocracys and even dictatorships, Rojava is a beacon of democracy with a unique cultural, ethnic and religious diversity. Moreover, let us not forget that a democratic society was built in Rojava in particularly difficult and even inhuman conditions. The continued existence of the autonomous administration has been under pressure for years, referring to the Syrian civil war, the long-standing terrible fight against ISIS, the Turkish invasion and occupation of Northern Syria, ongoing attacks on jihadist militias, military confrontations and sabotage actions. An additional, not insignificant reason to recognise that region is the fact that in that case terrorists of Belgian nationality can be tried there. It would be a good signal if Belgium were to take the lead in ensuring the continued existence of the Autonomous Administration of Northern and Eastern Syria. In our motion we are therefore asking for bilateral contacts to be maintained and for Rojava to be recognised, just as Catalonia did.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u88	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u89	Yes 75 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u90	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the External Relations Committee on 29 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 29 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 267/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 267/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago truck drivers came to Canada to protest against compulsory vaccinations for their profession. The protest soon received the support of a much broader group that opposed the regime's particularly strict corona measures in the country. That was not to the liking of the Left-liberal Prime Minister Trudeau, who then took disproportionate measures to end the civil protests. Trudeau has assigned himself special powers that have taken a run at some of the most basic human rights. Dean Allison of the Conservative Party, an opposition party, spoke openly about authentic military style measures. Green MEP Mike Morris said: "The use of the Emergency Act sets a worrying precedent for future protests." These are clear statements with clear warnings. The consequences did not last, and the protesters were dealt with very violently. Whoever dared to provide the truck drivers with blankets, food and water, was arrested and locked up. Protests were threatened by the regime with the kidnapping from parental power. As a blow to the head, Trudeau wanted to block the bank accounts of anyone who was suspected of any sympathy for the peaceful protests and this without any judicial ruling. For us, these are totally reprehensible methods that do not fit in with a democratic society. That is why I interviewed the Foreign Minister the day before yesterday whether she would reject these practices as strongly as the actions of the Polish and Hungarian Governments and whether she would take action in bilateral areas. However, when the fundamental rights of citizens were violated in Canada, it did not consider that to be serious. It considered that the measures taken by the regime in Canada were only justified and logical. We believe that this is a very hypocritical attitude and have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation to strongly condemn the measures in Canada and to call on the Canadian ambassador to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u92	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u93	Yes 77 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 123 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u94	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 30 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 30 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 270/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 270/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u95	On 4 March last, the Consultative Committee decided to switch the coronabarometer to code yellow. As of Monday 7 March, the Covid Safe Ticket disappeared in the hospitality industry and several restrictions for events fell. In view of the fact that the Covid Safe Ticket fell away and that people are allowed to experience sport, culture or other events together and the hospitality industry no longer has any restrictive measures, it is strange that the oral mask obligation from the age of 12 continues to apply to public transport. This duty of masking applies only in the train, not in the stations and on the platforms. Train passengers should not wear the mouth mask there. People who come together in the living room, meet at sports competitions, visit cultural events together, go to the cinema together, play sports, play cards together, visit a concert together or sit in the car together, can do all that without a mouth mask. But if those same people are on the same train there is a big covid alarm and mouth masks must be worn immediately, even if they are safely at the window for a train journey to the sea. Those same people may be sitting together in the same workspace, in the same office space, perhaps poorly ventilated and without a mouth mask. That doesn't make any sense. Therefore, take an example to colleagues in the Netherlands, where the oral mask obligation on the train has been abolished. That is why we are calling for immediate action to be taken to abolish the duty of mouth masking on trains so that passengers can move around in a comfortable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u96	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u97	Yes 77 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 121 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u98	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 30 March 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 30 March 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 274/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 274/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Tusters; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u99	Colleagues, in carrying out its monitoring mission and taking into account the results of a previous review, the P Committee decided to launch a monitoring investigation into the way in which security services, such as the SNCB security service, Securail, implement the powers conferred on them in relation to the use of coercion and violence. It was also decided to identify the way in which any complaints as a result will be processed or dealt with. It was a rolling investigation between the years 2018 and 2021. A number of findings emerged from the research carried out. For example, the current uniform is perceived by the security officers as inappropriate. There are problems in carrying out identity checks and exercising the right of opinion. There are uncertainties when carrying out a security check. There are also uncertainties about the use of handcuffs. There is also a restrictive legislative framework on the use of pepper spray as a defence agent and on the use of dogs. In addition, the quality of some of the planned training courses is inadequate. Moreover, cooperation between Securail and the police is not always optimal and there is a lack of complaints procedure. That is why we tabled this motion, in which we ask that the recommendations contained in the report of the Standing Committee on Police Control be taken into account immediately in consultation with the relevant actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u100	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u101	Yes 78 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 124 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u103	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 124 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u104	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 2. (2529/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Depooster cs on Article 2.(2529/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u105	Yes 48 Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 3. (2529/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depooster cs on article 3. (2529/4) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u106	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u107	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u108	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u109	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Björn Anseeuw to Article 2. (2447/9) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Björn Anseuw on Article 2. (2447/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u110	Yes 24 Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Björn Anseew to delete Article 3. (2447/9) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Björn Anseuw to omit Article 3. (2447/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u111	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 119 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Björn Anseew to delete Article 4. (2447/9) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Björn Anseuw to omit Article 4. (2447/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u112	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Björn Anseew to delete Article 5. (2447/9) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Björn Anseuw to omit Article 5. (2447/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u113	Yes 36 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u114	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u115	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 122 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u116	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u117	Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u118	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u119	Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u120	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u121	Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 124 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u123	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u125	Yes 107 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u127	Yes 76 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 122 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 591/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 591/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-31-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip173x.u128	We must approve the agenda of the 21st and possibly 20th April 2022. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the meetings of 21 and possibly 20 April 2022. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 20 April 2022 or Thursday, 21 April 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 20 April 2022 or Thursday 21 April 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
