ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u1	Mr President, I do not know if we are already clear on the schedule for this afternoon. I don't have a problem. I can stay late. There are a significant number of questions. Under the previous legislature, arrangements had been made to improve matters. A number of questions do require an exchange for different reasons. For a number of other questions, one could work very well with written questions, but the response times are very long. When we turn an oral question into a written question, we only get the answer three weeks later. Under the previous legislature, the work had been organized fairly efficiently: for the questions turned into questions written in committee, the answer was immediately received on paper and the path was then continued within the services for encoding. This allowed for acceptable and reasonable response times. This was very positive both for the minister, for the services and for the organisation of the agenda. Mr President, could we take up these implementing rules that existed under the previous legislatures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u2	I propose not to devote a long debate on this subject, but we are indeed on 103 items on the agenda today. We must complete this agenda before the leave. I will ask the minister whether he agrees with this procedure, which would actually save us time: the conversion into a question written in committee and the immediate receipt of the written reply on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u3	Mr President, I have nothing against that a priori. I think that the Chamber should think about what happens if it does. An oral question may first be tabled in order to receive a written reply quickly. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u4	Everyone is master of his questions. Everyone remains in control of their questions but everyone knows the length of the agenda and we're going to have to do something. We'll see if the minister can stay a little longer or come again. Each individual will choose, based on his or her questions, what he or she wishes to transform into written questions for what is scheduled for today's session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u5	Mrs Fonck, as you point out, a mutual benefit cannot effectively exclude an affiliate from the benefit of reimbursements for health care under social security if he has not paid his contributions for compulsory supplementary insurance. I am not informed of cases in which mutualities would have deprived members of the benefits of compulsory health care and benefits insurance because they would not have paid their compulsory supplementary insurance contributions. The same applies to the Office for the Control of Mutualities, which I consulted in this respect, and which states to me that the consequences of the failure to pay the contributions of compulsory supplementary insurance were, at its request, included in the statutes of mutualities, stressing the absence of any impact on compulsory health care and benefits insurance. Mutualities have, in accordance with the rules in force, sent to persons who do not pay the compulsory supplementary insurance contributions a letter informing them of the consequences of this non-payment when it lasts at least 24 months; but this does not concern compulsory health care and allowances insurance. It is not to be excluded that some persons who have received this letter confuse these benefits with those of supplementary insurance, which has also been compulsory since 2012. There may be confusion in the interpretation of what is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u6	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, perhaps there is confusion sometimes. But I can tell you clearly that there are situations on the ground where there is no confusion in the interpretation of the content of this mail, and where patients are actually deprived of compulsory insurance. That's not right! It's inaudible! This does not come from "some say"; it comes from several general practitioners. The testimonies are converging. The patients concerned are often in a difficult situation. It is difficult to ask them to contact the Office for the Control of Mutualities or the Ombudsman. I think that, when we say that, we are a thousand miles from the reality of the ground. What I expect of you is a very clear and strong reminder of this rule, directly to mutualities. There is no interpretation possible: patients cannot be deprived of compulsory insurance if they have not paid their supplementary insurance contributions. I hope, minister, that you will intervene in this direction and that you will make this reminder to mutualities. You see them a lot. The ideal would be to write to them and reformulate it very clearly for them. But you often see them. I'm really asking you to get this message across, and for patients, and for public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u7	But, Mrs. Fonck, please let me know. Indeed, when I have no case, and since it is a well-known rule of mutualities, it is a little difficult to speak to them in white. So if you tell me the cases, I can study them and if necessary, I send a message to all mutualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u8	So, if I understand correctly, it is up to me to get in touch with the general practitioners so that they can give me confidential patient data!- Is that what you're saying? Confidentiality remains an important element. What I can do is tell the general practitioners to write by saying "we had this or that case". I don't want a patient hunt, because, on the other hand, we've broken confidentiality. Excuse me, Minister, but this is your job! Let me speak, the last word is in Parliament. This is still included in the House's Rules of Procedure. So, in practice, it's your job and your responsibility. But if you don't believe the general practitioners who come to my house to tell me there's a real concern... and this isn't the first time. I had already been able to observe the same thing, but at the time I had not moved and said: "Good. Okay, that was black on the bench." Of which act. I take note of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u9	I'm telling you why I think there's confusion. First of all, we have no case, none! Never!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u10	No case, of which you know!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u11	Secondly, we have just sent letters to members who have not paid free supplementary insurance for 24 months, to inform them that they will have problems in terms of compulsory supplementary insurance. Since these letters have been sent, I imagine there may be confusion. I don't know. You have the presumption of being aware of the facts. But please give me proof of the case! I will not again send a circular on this subject, which is also very well known, in the absence of concrete cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u12	Minister, my question has nothing to do with this letter that has just been sent. Indeed, I have already tabled this question for several months. I don't have the date in mind. I'm sorry, but there's no cause-and-effect link to the mail you're calling on. Anyway, I'll return to the general practitioners. In terms of confidentiality, it is not for me to pass on the patients concerned for whom you will then intervene with the mutual by saying that it is the patient, X, Y and Z. I will in any case go back to the fact that this is happening. Moreover, as a simple Member of Parliament, I do not have an overview of all general practitioners or doctors. In this matter, you have more levers than I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 55027599C by Mrs Farih will be converted into a written question at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u14	Minister, on 11 May of this year, VRT NWS wrote: "Schurft is advancing in Antwerp." Scrap has been advancing for some time now, and not only in Flanders. The story then appeared in the press, because there is a shortage of medicines and ointments. The tropical institute still has a supply of medicines and makes them available to the Antwerp pharmacists. It concerns ivermectin, a substance used against various types of parasites and also works. While during the debate on compulsory vaccination, you argued that it was a veterinary medicinal product, which is not suitable for human use, it appears that not only the Flemish interest but also the tropical institute is aware of the use of the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u15	Not to covid, as you came here to say!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u16	It's still a human medicine. It's a shame you didn't know that as Minister of Health, but all right. I do have some questions about the treatment of scalp with ivermectin. How much Ivermectin is in stock at the moment? What is the cause of the rampage of the mange mite and the associated disease? How serious is that? There has been no reporting since 2009. Is that gonna change now that the bug's pulling up again? What therapy is used to treat the skin disorder and the extermination of the parasite?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u17	In a previous debate, Mrs Sneppe said that ivermectin was a promising drug against covid. That's what you told me here. I just hope people don't listen to your advice. Now, because the correct use of ivermectin is concerned, there is no commercialised medicinal product for human use based on ivermectin available for the treatment of mange. My administration has not yet received any information on the remaining stock of the Institute of Tropical Medicine. The information on the advance of the scabbard mite and the reporting obligation are actually the responsibility of the Länder. The Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (BCFI) recommends permethrin cream as a preferential treatment in the treatment of scabies and indicates ivermectin as an alternative. Exceptionally, the unavailable medicines can be imported by the pharmacist on the basis of a special prescription, the so-called doctor's certificate. The use of ivermectin is not prohibited in Belgium. There are two authorised medicinal products for human use that have ivermectin as an active substance: Solanatracrème is on the market and IVERMECTIN SUBSTIFHARM tablets have been authorised by the end of 2021, but the authorisation holder has not yet placed that medicinal product on the Belgian market. As I said earlier, a pharmacist can import the oral form of Ivermectin from abroad on the basis of a doctor's certificate. With regard to COVID-19, I repeat that both the World Health Organisation, the European Medicines Agency and the US Food and Drug Administration recommend not to use Ivermectin for prevention or treatment of COVID-19 outside clinical studies. There are insufficient quality data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of Ivermectin in the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I would like to comment on the introductory part of my question. I did not recommend anything, I asked why the medicine should not be used against COOVID-19, because I find it strange that it should not be used. The medicine does, however, have anti-indications. Each medicine has counterindications, but I think that can also be said of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u19	Here we go again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u20	I'd rather take a pill than let myself be vaccinated with something whose possible long-term negative effects are still unknown. Anyway, that's not what my question was about. You have not answered my question as to the cause of the current rise in mange. I also find it very strange that you have no knowledge of the supply of medicines, including Ivermectin, at the tropical institute. I thought it was important for a health minister to know that. Especially when scabs are on the rise again, we must have sufficient resources to fight them. In my Google search for the cause, I learned that scabies had almost disappeared from us, but that the condition from tropical and subtropical regions is re-emerging here. But that cannot be said, of course, because that is the elephant in the Chamber, or rather the elephant in the porcelain cabinet. Maybe that should also be looked at.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief, because we debated this last week in plenary. I would like to ask one more question. What are the plans for the first-line psychology project after 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u22	We did indeed hear your reply in plenary last week. You made it clear that 1.917 psychologists and orthopedagogics have entered a new convention. You expect the convention to be rolled out by October 2022. Since January, 38.000 patients have entered these routes. These are promising signals about this convention. It is very important that we take appropriate action in the first line to ensure that mild problems do not develop into severe psychological or psychiatric conditions. The roll-out didn't start until after last summer. Not everything can be expected within six months. You're still asking for the first evaluation. I also hear that it is a little more difficult to attract enough psychologists in rural areas. The eight-hour threshold is considered rather high in the Convention on children and young people. Can a threshold reduction provide a solution? As a result of last year's communication campaign, people still think that they can turn to a psychologist for eleven euros. Is there another communication campaign on the contrary? Many clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics are confronted with these questions. It's annoying for them to have to answer that every time. It is better to communicate correctly in that area. The closed healthcare budget is provided per network. How does the organisation and management of this budget work in practice? Are there any differences? In the resolution adopted at the beginning of this legislature, I stressed the importance of a multi-annual plan for mental health in terms of budget and evolution towards the target of 12% of the health budget. Money doesn't solve everything. However, we are in a transitional period, in which the mild problems of many people have become serious problems. As long as the publishing initiative has not been launched and is not being rolled out, there will always be a group that is left with these serious problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u23	I am glad that Mrs Depoorter will come back to it, because I mentioned, in my reply, numbers that proved to be incorrect. That's very annoying. I was satisfied when you asked about the state of affairs last week and I was able to give it to you. Afterwards, the services told me that these numbers contain a number of double counts on the number of conventions. So evolution is a little less good than I had concluded. At the same time, the number of patients is better than what I said. I will now inform you of the correct data. On the basis of the data for the month of May 2022 of the ASW IM, 1,590 agreements were concluded across the country. It is about similarities and not about individuals, psychologists or orthopedagogics. I had spoken of 1,917 people. What happened? A number of healthcare providers concluded an agreement with different mental health networks. To my regret and regret, there were double counts in the file delivered to my cabinet the day I answered the question. There are therefore no 1.917 persons. The total bet comes on an offer of 15.715 hours per week and not 19.000 hours per week. That remains a nice increase compared to April. It is an increase of 28% in the number of contracts and an increase of 27% in the offer expressed in hours. So that remains a nice increase, but it is less spectacular than what I was so pleased about in the Chamber last week. I also said that some 38,000 people have accepted the offer. That number does not appear to be correct either, because there are 42,151. The moral of story: 'hurry and haste are rarely good'. I was glad I could deliver the data just in time, but unfortunately there were errors. That also means, Mrs Depooster, that I hold on to the spirit of the discussions we have already had. So it is progressing, but it could progress even faster. The professional organisations are doing their utmost. It is therefore not a criticism of the professional organisations concerned. A lot of people on the ground are also doing their very best. However, progress should be made more quickly. There is more dynamic in it now, among other things because we have written those 13,000 individual clinical psychologists from our central point on the FOD. I can answer Mrs Van Hoof's questions as follows. Firstly, communication remains a real point of improvement. It is true that we are dealing with this problem from the outset. In the beginning it was still somewhat excusable that the communication on our part, but also on the part of the networks, was not clear to the general public. That communication had to be clearer and better. In the meantime, this is a very important and urgent point of improvement for me. We have promised the networks that we will help them to get the communication right. An offer has been made for a communication campaign. The aim is to obtain a communication plan and communication material, which can be used in the short term to raise awareness among all concerned, but which is also useful for communication to the wider population. The communication material's already here. This can be used pending the implementation of a fully integrated communication plan. The tender is therefore issued. The RIZIV expects the offers by 21 June 2022. It has been stated that the contract must be completed within 45 days of notification. I remain cautious, but by September 2022 the real communication plan, I hope, must be running and communication must be clearer, better and more efficient at all levels. For your question on rural areas, I must honestly confess that I am not afraid to answer that. It is clear that the roll-out is more difficult in the networks Children and Youth. That's what the numbers show. What you say may be correct, namely that that eight hours is a brake. That's what we need to look at. However, there may also be other inhibiting factors. I am afraid to say that, but there is really a difference in dynamics between the adult networks and the networks for children and young people. Mrs Depoorter, you also ask what I intend to do in the future. The Convention has been expressly concluded for two years and the question is what we will do after 2023. I don't think it's wrong to say that it's a large-scale testing ground. It's really so conceived, but we do believe in what we're doing, and so we're assuming that this is the beginning of something that we're going to continue structuralally. However, since this is a real culture shift that challenges our classic way of working, we have also planned for a thorough evaluation to be carried out by a scientific team in 2023, so that we can see where adjustments may be useful and possible. The evaluation is also supported by the monthly monitoring of the convention based on an invoicing tool of the vzw IM. This also allows us to keep an eye on the matter and, if necessary, to adjust it. The scientific study is a partnership between the KULeuven and the University of Liège. We expect the first results of this by March 2023. The immediate objective must, of course, be the further roll-out, because if we want to evaluate it as a test site, it must of course be a test site running at full speed. This is a really good way to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u24	Minister, I must confess that I was positively surprised on Thursday. I am, of course, somewhat disappointed now. You must have been, too. The figure is 15% less. That draws the chaos surrounding the roll-out of first-line psychology. I spent weeks looking for the figures of the number of psychologists who had convenited. You obviously wouldn't have found them in time either, in your capacity as a competent minister. It is therefore essential to work towards transparency. You say that it is progressing, but that progress is really not what you had in mind, nor does it respond to the needs of our patients today. These needs are long-term and urgent. It is also clearly stated by the professions that they cannot help all patients. Many patients need more than ten sessions and do not fall under the scope of the first-line refund that you have in mind. You also pointed out that the deployment of youth and children's networks was somewhat more difficult. Just that, however, is what the psychologists tell me: the file of many children within that youth problem is much more complex. As a result, they are not covered by the scope and target group you have in mind. Therefore, it is very difficult for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics to give parents the message that there is a refund, but not for their child, who is in need and absolutely should be helped. You're also talking about the communication plan. So you will communicate a year and two months after your communication that your communication was premature. You will be disappointed by all the patients involved, who had expectations. That's too bad. For what you said about the future, namely a two-year convention, which will be evaluated after one year, I hope that you will be fully prepared for the evaluation of 2023, so that it can be implemented immediately and we do not have to continue to work without a convention for another year and the patients do not have to wait a year for your evaluation to be helped again. That will be the case. Continuity in mental health care is absolutely a focus. The roll-out of your networks to a legal person is absolutely a focus, as is the anchoring of the RIZIV agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. You have said very clearly that it is a testing ground, a first step, and that we must look at it that way. So there are still a lot of lessons to be learned that have to be taken away. It is not long and you will evaluate it quite early, in March 2023. That is very fast for a pilot project, but it is important to play the ball here briefly. After all, the needs are very great. Maybe we can adjust by 2023 if things are not working out in rural areas. Even if there are problems for children and young people, it may be necessary to work on them at your first evaluation or interim monitoring, as they do happen every month. It's a good thing you're working on communication. After all, wrong messages left after the summer of last year, although they were well meant. It is good that you have taken the initiative to put that communication on the spot. Then there are the governance structures. Of course, it is not possible to pin it down when there are experimental gardens, but there too we need to examine whether legal personality should be granted and whether we should clarify the option of closed budgets. Those elements should be included in the evaluation. Of course, the budget remains the biggest problem and you do not give an immediate answer. I understand that this cannot always be done, but the ambition should be not only to use what one has better, but also to continue raising the global envelope, even though money is not always the solution, as I said. We have a tsunami because of corona, people only now realize what this has brought about. We can expect a great deal in this area, which is why we need a supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament 55027763C by Mrs Merckx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u27	Minister, you announced on 12 May that the supplements of honorary wages would be frozen in hospitals. As you know, the maximum wage supplements vary a lot from hospital to hospital. It should be noted that the highest fees are mainly requested in the Brussels hospitals, while the lowest supplements are mainly requested in the Flemish hospitals. This goes from 150 % in Flemish hospitals to 300 % in certain Brussels hospitals. When the supplements are frozen, this means that hospitals in Wallonia and Brussels, where the supplements are higher, will have a larger operating budget. You have also indicated in your plan that you want to abolish the wage supplements in the long term. In what way will you ensure that there is no financial transfer to those hospitals that are now asking for the highest supplements? In what way will you respond to the hospitals with the highest supplements? If you want to abolish the supplements, what role do you see before hospitalisation insurance, which are often closed to deal with such supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u28	Mrs Gijbels, I think we have already discussed this. The intention of the government agreement is clear in order to regulate, stabilise and then reduce the wage supplements, while at the same time avoiding a shift in hospital activities outside the hospital. We don't want that. The first step, a stand still, has been taken. A unanimous agreement was reached on 12 May in the National Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals. The next stage is a legal limitation of the chargeable fee supplements. In doing so, both nominal ceilings and maximum rates in the hospital sector will be set, as well as out-of-arms, so that we can gradually reduce the overall amount of the remuneration supplements. Essentially, Mrs Gijbels, I think that this responds to your concern, is that we will apply equal ceilings and equal percentages to all hospitals. Hospitals charging high supplements will therefore have to adjust their policies more than hospitals that are moderate. If we provide for financial compensation mechanisms, then it is not the case that those who are now asking for high supplements are more compensated. It certainly won't be. As far as supplementary insurance is concerned, you will bring me to my mind, because they will win if we restrict the supplements. Perhaps the additional insurers could contribute to some of the compensation for hospitals. In any case, this will have to be done in a uniform manner. Those who ask for high supplements today should not be favoured.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u29	Minister, as of next week we will have a number of hearings specifically on hospital funding. We will certainly go into that further. It is good to hear that the capping takes place at an equal level for all hospitals. This has long been unclear, including in the hospital sector. I am not so sure that the supplementary insurance is going to win, because who will want to take out hospitalisation insurance if nothing is to replace it? That is a concern because a major player will then disappear in the entire funding. I wonder how that hole will be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u30	Mrs Fonck, in 2021 there were 2,867 technologists in medical imaging in Belgium. The legislation on medical imaging technologists is one of the paramedical professions legislation that has recently been updated. The legislative framework that surrounds medical imaging technologists was modernized less than five years ago to respond to a need on the ground, to anticipate future developments and, above all, to strengthen the autonomy of this important paramedical profession. As the world of medical imaging is undergoing an extremely rapid technological evolution, the royal decree of 22 December 2017 was widely thought out. Medical imaging technologists are given a clear autonomous role within a well-defined framework. Thus, the measures of parameters of the different functional systems, the safety interviews, the adaptation of standard procedures based on evidence to the individual needs of the patient are autonomous acts of these professionals. This was not, of course, done without adapting the qualification criteria of these professionals. As a result, the training was completely revised less than five years ago to train practitioners who can provide high-quality and safe care. Providing more autonomy to a paramedical profession while respecting the safety of care makes it possible to value these professionals and to recognize their importance in the health system and their skills. As for nurses specializing in medical imaging, they do not have accreditation criteria defined in the legislation as well as other nursing specializations (stomatherapy, infusionist, anaesthetist). As a result, there are no specific data at the federal level on the number of nurses who have completed this specialization. Under the Quality Act, a register of practices will be established in the future. It should make this information available. Since the use of medical imaging devices is an act on the list of medical acts entrusted, all nurses can potentially be engaged in radiotherapy services. Of course, further training allows the development of skills in a particular field, but nurses specializing in medical imaging do not have any acts reserved for them. Attractiveness is a problem faced by the nursing profession in general, in general services and specialized services. In 2021, I set up a "nurses" task force, one of which focused on specializations. I intend to make a proposal shortly, taking into account the recommendations of this task force, and I will keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u31	Minister, you remind me of the rules and the legislation, either! If I ask this question, it is not for pleasure but to relay what I have to do with several services. You've talked a lot about medical imaging. I also put a lot of emphasis on radiation therapy in my question. You cannot have seen this recently published Belgian study, which I mentioned in my question to which you did not reply. She sees the human resource gaps that are crucial for cancer patients, whether in medical imaging or radiotherapy. You're talking about a registry, a task force, etc. Mr Minister, if I insist on these cruel shortcomings in the services concerned, I would like you to take stock of the seriousness of the situation for the care of patients today and tomorrow. Attractiveness and recognition for the professionals involved require stronger measures than you mention. This is a major public health issue for the patients and care teams concerned so that these services continue to function with the required quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u32	Ms. Fonck, pretending that children with IQ less than 86 do not have access to the multidisciplinary logopedia is inaccurate. This applies only to the management of language and dysphasia development disorders, since the other logopedic disorders listed in the nomenclature are not affected by this exclusion. With regard to these two disorders, it is generally accepted by the various stakeholders that multidisciplinary management is better suited and is more likely to be successful than multidisciplinary treatment for patients with IQ below 86. Therefore, the intention is to direct the child towards the best solution for him or her, making the best use of available budgets. In concrete terms, these multidisciplinary treatments are provided in outpatient rehabilitation centres (ARCs), where patients are divided into target groups based, inter alia, on their IQ, including those with IQ below 86 or 70. As you point out, it appears that the structures involved – therefore, the CRAs – are not large enough, are dispersed and unevenly distributed across the territory, while they display very long waiting lists and offer only less intensive support than the monodisciplinary logopedia according to the nomenclature. That said, we are no longer qualified in the areas concerned, since the CRAs have, since the sixth reform of the State, been the responsibility of the federated entities. With regard to your question concerning, in particular, the introduction of the possibility of possible cumulations between interventions in monodisciplinary logopedia via the Federal Compulsory Health Care Insurance and multidisciplinary treatment in CRA, the study has not yet started. It has been envisaged to entrust it to the KCE, but this has not yet been achieved, in particular due to the considerable difficulties caused by the crisis of the covid-19, which affects all sectors of society – in particular health care. However, if the starting hypothesis is to more or less relax the conditions for access to the intervention of compulsory federal health care insurance for monodisciplinary logopedia treatments – for patients who can be cared for by multidisciplinary centres and/or education – it is necessary to remain extremely careful as to the possible budgetary consequences that would result and that would affect only federal health care insurance. These consequences are logically inquantifiable at present, as long as we do not know the number of patients who would become eligible for this cumulation. On the other hand, this seems to go against the philosophy itself of the sixth reform of the State, by returning concretely to the division of competences – finalised on 1 January 2019 for these specific competences – by returning some of these competences to federal health care insurance. This would therefore be a form of re-federalization of one or the other health care insurance sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u33	Minister, regarding this study that has not yet been requested, the law was passed in 2019. This was already a major step backwards since I introduced a bill, and the discussion had been very complicated at the time. I note that the law is not being complied with three years after its adoption. On the content and situation of these children, it is true that compulsory rehabilitation centres have long waiting lists and are poorly distributed. The federated entities must deploy them more significantly. This concerns a number of children. However, other children are included in mainstream education and must be able to benefit from the accessibility of logopedia for all types of care, according to their needs. Political parties are increasingly trying to provide for the inclusion of children with special needs in mainstream education. All parties have their mouths in mind by speaking, and here you go in exactly the opposite direction. The choice between regular education with access to the logopedia, as for all other children, or special education and logopedia in the CRAs must depend not on a reform of the State but on the needs and well-being of the children. In practice, this legislation as it exists prevents children with an IQ of less than 86 from being included in mainstream education. Finally, let me say that the reliability of determining an intellectual quotient, and a fortiori in children, is not an exact science. When, on the basis of an IQ test, a child is barred from being included in mainstream education, this is tantamount to going totally against what should be done in terms of the inclusion of children with disabilities. Minister, I do not agree with you at all, and I will continue, as I have done for years, to try to move the lines to take these children into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u34	Mr President, dear colleague, the Conebeame examination (CBCT) quoted is used in a limited number of indications, for teeth, sinus, facial massif, rocks. The advantage of this type of examination over a conventional CT examination is that radiation exposure is lower. Both dentists and radiologists have access to a limited number of CBCT examinations in the nomenclature. In this context, the nomenclature rules relating to the prescription of medical imaging examinations must be complied with, including in the case of substitution by the radiologist. The prescription of a CBCT dental examination of the upper and/or lower jaw is limited to a number of medical specialists due to the limited number of indications and the necessary expertise of the prescriber. This is also consistent with the CT examination rule for the upper and lower jaws. The prescription has recently been extended to specialist doctors with special professional qualifications in emergency medicine and specialist doctors with special professional qualifications in intensive care, for traumatic indication. The limitation also applies to the CBCT rock examination, as it is a specialized examination. The INAMI Medical Technical Council's "Medical Imagery" working group will examine whether the prescription of the CBCT Rocks Examination should be open to general practitioners, or whether the prescription of the CT Rocks Examination should also be limited to certain specialties. To do this, we will evaluate the number of CT tests of rocks prescribed by general practitioners. With regard to the CBCT of the facial massif, the prescription is not limited to certain specialties. Finally, the prescription of CBCT examinations of a member or peripheral joint of a member is currently also limited to specialist physicians. A draft royal decree was drafted with the aim of removing this restriction in order to guarantee a refund in case of substitution by radiologist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u35	Minister, I did recall the rules in my question. I have specific situations and questions on which you do not answer. When a patient comes with a general practitioner's prescription for a sinus or rock scanner, even though the radiology department has a conbeame, what happens? The patient undergoes a conventional scanner that gives a poor diagnosis. In a second time, he will come back to make a conbeame. In short, it's bad for the patient because you're wasting time getting a late diagnosis, that he gets irradiated twice, including once by a classic scanner much more irradiating than conbeame. Moreover, for public health in budgetary terms, it is bad because it will have two reviews rather than one. My point is not to open the prescription of this type of examination to all, but at the very least to allow a shift by the radiologist when he holds a conbeame on the spot, allowing the patient to avoid being irradiated for nothing for a bad diagnosis and, in addition, to allow budgetary savings, why I would like to insist, Minister, that you be attentive and proactive on this issue for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u36	Minister, in Belgium we diagnose almost 80,000 cancers a year. In 99% of cases, they affect adults. However, this disease may also affect children or young adolescents. In their case, the most common cancers are leukemia, lymphoma and brain tumours. The fight against paediatric cancer requires very different means than those put in place to combat cancer in adults. Indeed, the prevention axis loses its full meaning, since cancers are not due to risky behaviours such as unbalanced diet, smoking or alcohol consumption. In the case of children's cancers, the etiology or triggering factors are not identified. On average, 13 more cases of paediatric cancer are diagnosed each year in Belgium. This means that every year 300 to 350 children develop leukemia or malignant tumours. Cancer is the leading cause of death by disease in children over one year of age, and two thirds of survivors suffer from long-term effects. These factors require us to address the issue of treatment. It is our duty to put everything in place to promote research. According to the Kick Cancer Foundation, very important progress has been made in adult oncology while innovation stagnates for paediatric cancers. Since 2007, more than 150 new cancer molecules have been authorised for adults. Over the same period, only 9 were for paediatric cancers. This injustice is also visible in young patients' access to innovative clinical trials, which remains an exception for one in ten children, without therapeutic options. The addition of all these elements leads to a stagnant healing rate, which has increased by only 4% since 2000. Minister, do the government have any elements to make to these findings as well as prospects for effective improvements in care and research for the future? To what extent does the federal government support research organized in the context of paediatric cancer? Is a specific policy also developed to improve young children's access to innovative clinical trials? Finally, in October 2020, a motion for a resolution was tabled for the establishment of reference centres for rare cancers. Would that be possible? Do you have in your drawers a reference centre project for pediatric cancers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u37	Mrs Gilson, over the past 60 years, mortality rates for paediatric cancers have decreased considerably. This decrease in mortality continues and reflects an improvement in the cancer survival rate in children. This survival increased for all childhood cancers over the same period, but to varying degrees and at different times. Children and adolescents aged 15-19 years with cancer have a relatively good prognosis. The survival of ten-year-olds – which amounts to 84% – is very similar to that of adolescents – which reaches 85%. These improvements are not simply related to the use of more effective drugs, but rather to the use of existing drugs, a better understanding of the natural behaviour of the disease, improved diagnostic methods, better surgery and radiation therapy, better identification of prognosis factors, the potential benefits of applying second-line or rescue therapy, and inclusion in international oncology clinical trials. Due to the increase in healing rates, short- and long-term complication support care is becoming more important, which also contributes to the reduction of mortality. Data show that observed survival improves over time, although the rate of improvement appears to be declining over the past decade. In order to support oncological and paediatric care, hospital funding provides some €6 million to the seven centres active in paediatric haematology. Part of this budget is intended to contribute to the financing of the Belgian Society for Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (BSPHO), which coordinates Belgian research in this field. Several initiatives have been taken at European and national level to stimulate investment in product development to meet unmet medical needs. In addition, the Orphan Medicinal Products Regulation was introduced in 2000 to invest in the production of medicines to treat rare diseases through incentives targeted at manufacturers. The exclusivity of orphan markets, separate regulatory processes and scientific and financial support for research and development have been introduced. In 2006, the Regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use was adopted. In order to stimulate the research and development of medicinal products for paediatric use, it has introduced an obligation to design or carry out a paediatric investigation plan, except for exceptions, and to reward compliance with this obligation in the form of a supplementary protection certificate. According to the recent Moniteur Deloitte, a wide variety of the therapeutic field is covered in clinical trials in Belgium, with increasing expertise in cancer research. Despite the size of the population, more than one in five clinical trials in Belgium are conducted in the field of rare diseases. An upward trend in paediatric trials may also be observed over the past four years. So it seems to be going in the right direction. As part of clinical research in paediatric haematology, international collaboration is very important given the limited number of patients. The European reference networks established in 2017 as virtual networks of exchanges and expertise between European teams of experts in rare diseases also have a role in scientific research and can certainly contribute to collaboration in Europe for research in paediatric oncology. A specific MRI for paediatric cancers has been established, a network in which Belgium participates with four centres. With regard to the development of reference centres for rare cancers, a concentration of care for paediatric haemato-oncology is certainly necessary. It is important that patients be treated in hospitals with the best expertise for their disease. However, it is necessary to work on a step-by-step basis and on the basis of scientific evidence. The National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI) will first develop conventions for reference centres for head and neck tumours. This work is under way. Other rare or complex tumours will follow later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u38	Thank you for that information, Minister. Indeed, I believe that pediatric cancer has its specificity because it affects these children, sometimes very young, which has an impact on how the tumor evolves. I am therefore very attentive to what you have said, namely that a job is under way to go to referral centres in order to try to better treat these paediatric cancers which, like any cancer affects the deepest of people's hearts and even more when it comes to children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u39	Minister, on the night of 13-14 May, a cyberattack hit the Vivalia institution, an intercommunal hospital only in the province of Luxembourg. Two hundred servers were put out of service. Most of the operations and consultations had to be postponed. This cyberattack has affected the entire healthcare sector in the province of Luxembourg. We heard about your meeting with Vivalia's management and its president, Yves Planchard. Minister, what were the conclusions of this meeting? Are there any federal legal constraints that impose minimum standards on the security of computer services in hospitals? When a cyber attack occurs, do procedures exist and work, for example, for the transfer of patients? If so, is a transfer of patients to border hospitals possible? Does CyberWal, a cybersecurity centre in Transinne, play a role in the security of hospital servers? Could this issue become a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u40	Mrs. Hanus, I met with the hospital management. The disaster this represents for the hospital is impressive. We worked day and night to restore the situation. I extend all my respect to the hospital, its staff and its management. This confirmed that cybersecurity should be considered a real priority. This is a budget issue and we are investing. I have obtained significant budgets for the next five years, but this may not be enough yet. In addition to an investment issue, it is also a matter of organisation and awareness at all levels, and thus, for example, of standards. On standards, the Working Group on Information Security, composed of hospital data protection officers, collaborated in 2019 to draft a set of minimum safety standards. They are based on an international standard (ISO 27 000) adapted to meet the needs and specificities of hospitals in terms of safety. To assist hospitals in their implementation, a set of implementation guidelines was developed in early 2020. Minimum standards are regularly revised to keep pace with evolving threats. An exercise prepared by data protection officers is under way to require hospital institutions to assess their maturity against these standards. As regards the existence of specific emergency procedures, each hospital must have a hospital emergency plan to deal with major accidents within the hospital, such as a power failure, a chemical accident, a nosocomial bacterium, a chain collision, a flood, an attack. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) is a partner of CyberWal and is involved in particular through We Help Our Hospitals in the security and protection of the information of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. Vivalia's news has been new and has had a terrible impact on the services of the intercommunal community. Its president, Yves Planchard, provided leadership and wisdom that contributed to this challenge. Now is the time for the teachings and conclusions of this unfortunate episode. Massive investment in cybersecurity is a project that I support to combat future attacks. For the province of Luxembourg, the healthcare staff and, above all, their patients, I thank you for the consideration you have shown in this dossier. It was important to be able to discuss it here in the federal Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u42	Mrs Depoorter has gone to another committee to ask a question there. She has stated that her question No. 55027976 on the follow-up to budgetary control. So that question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u43	Minister, on 22 May the World Health Organisation met to conclude a pandemic agreement. A pandemic treaty is also under way within the European Union. When I asked you a question about this in February, it was not yet clear whether the European Union was going to speak with one voice at the World Health Organisation meeting. Minister, how does the European pandemic agreement relate to the WTO pandemic agreement? Will Europe speak with one voice, or will the individual Member States express their views individually? What attitude does Belgium take within the European Union and within the World Health Organisation with regard to addressing and preparing pandemics? What is the European Union's position? How do you view the subsidiarity of Member States with regard to health care and prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u44	Mrs Gijbels, (...) The idea of a pandemic treaty was launched by Charles Michel, President of the European Council, and was picked up by the World Health Organisation. In December 2021, a special session of the World Health Assembly, the World Health Assembly, decided to set up a specific working group, an intergovernmental NGO body, with the mandate to negotiate that new instrument. You ask whether Europe will speak with one voice or whether the Member States will speak individually. Practical guidelines for these negotiations were agreed within the European Union, which should allow us to speak with one voice as much as possible. In concrete terms, this means that the European Commission will speak when it comes to the competences of the European Union and that the Presidency will speak for national competences. As regards mixed competences, it will be agreed whether to speak by the European Commission or the Presidency, depending on where the centre of gravity of the competence in question lies. If no agreement can be reached on the European position on national or mixed competences, Member States can speak in their national capacity. If a European position was adopted on national competences, Member States could also take the floor in their national capacity, provided that this is complementary to the European position and that the addition does not go against the European position. You asked what attitude Belgium takes with regard to the approach and preparation of pandemics. We want to work on an instrument that ensures that we work better together worldwide to prevent future pandemics, are better prepared when a new pandemic pops up and are able to follow the right response strategy. Special Belgian concerns are the strengthening of health systems and the work on universal health coverage, the equitable distribution of medical countermeasures and the importance of attention to the interaction between humans, animals and the wider environment, the approach One Health. You asked what attitude the EU is adopting. Since there is neither a text proposal nor a detailed European position, and since negotiations have not yet started, it is difficult to predict what views the European Commission will take on the competences of the European Union and on mixed competences. As far as mixed competences and national competences are concerned, the final European position will depend on negotiation between the Member States and the European Commission or negotiation between the Member States. You asked how we look at subsidiarity. I assume that the practical directives agreed between the European Commission and the Member States, if we follow them correctly, will ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u45	Minister, I would like to ask a few questions about a pandemic treaty, especially at the level of the World Health Organisation. This World Health Organisation has been criticised for tackling the pandemic, especially in the first wave. It is precisely said that she did not have enough powers and therefore could not play her role. However, the criticism she received was not really about a lack of powers and power in the World Health Organisation, it was simply about not implementing the powers she did have. Proclamation of the pandemic, the method of transmission of the virus, the use or otherwise of protective equipment, the lack of transparency with regard to China, all of which are matters in which it could have played a perfectly important role but it did not. It is also true that the World Health Organisation has been working on pandemic preparation for many years. There was already a directive in 2005, which was updated in 2009. It clearly states that countries must have a pandemic plan. At the time, she also had a list of countries that had a pandemic plan. Belgium was there, by the way. However, when one clicked through, one saw that there was no pandemic plan behind it. It seems, therefore, that they simply did not exercise the powers they had and that that pandemic preparation was just windowdressing. I am therefore asking myself great questions in extending their powers if they have not yet exercised their basic powers. The WTO is not a democratic body, so I hope that the sovereignty of the various Members will really be monitored and that the countries can really continue to decide how their health systems should run. Of course, cooperation is needed, things have to be agreed and countries that have had difficulty supporting it, but there are many questions to ask in the role played by the World Health Organisation. She doesn't have to blow too high off the tower right now. I hope that you will continue to show the necessary vigilance in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u46	Ms. Fonck, the digitization of the invoicing of physiotherapy benefits to insurers is under development. The first stage concerns requests for medical advice and their responses, which will therefore be considerably accelerated and, in many cases, immediately addressed. The second step relates to the third-party billing process - E-Fact - without this possibility - E-Attest. In this context, practical arrangements are developed in consultation with representatives of physiotherapists and insurers. The point you raise will be addressed in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u47	Minister, when you confirm that this will be dealt with, it must be understood that this may not be the case. In any case, for my part, I am trying to anticipate that the rules will not be changed a posteriori. Therefore, I invite you to be attentive. That's all to your advantage. Above all, let us protect patients and try to reduce the administrative burden on the kine. If I understand correctly, pricing will be mandatory after each treatment. In practice, this means that patients may not be eligible for reimbursement for all sessions, unless - and this is hardly better - care can only begin once the mutual has given its authorization. Otherwise, they will be billed in full capacity. For both the patients and the kines, in view of the administrative burden, pursuing a fee after five treatments allows them to start as quickly as possible. In this case, the patient will benefit from the authorisation of the mutual fund and therefore from the reimbursement. This will avoid, in a second stage, having to correct the device. If I may, Minister, I invite you to remain attentive to this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u48	Mrs Fonck, since the figures for absenteeism in healthcare facilities cannot be obtained by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC), the latter has come to a daily monitoring of the number of hospital beds closed as an indirect indicator of absenteeism, since the end of October 2021. Prior to this date, there are no data on closed beds, although we know that during the holiday period it is not new that whole care units are closed. The highest number of closed beds, 228 ICU beds and 3,961 conventional beds were recorded at the end of November, early December 2021. Since then, the situation has improved and the situation over the last three months is variable but stable. However, we still have an average of 178 ICU closed beds and 2,558 conventional closed beds. We receive as a return from the HTSC Committee that no, the covid is not yet finished in hospitals but that the situation improves every day. We're back in an uncertain phase. Hospitals must no longer postpone care. We do not have closed bed census data until October 2021. It remains difficult to really estimate the severity of this number of closed beds. At a certain level, it would not be abnormal to have a number of closed beds. What is certain and certain is that the healthcare staff has suffered, that there is also a challenge of attractiveness of the profession and that hospitals still face a real shortage of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u49	Minister, if I have put the specific question to you, it is not because I do not know that there are closed beds. For several months, I have been telling you again, with the impression of a refusal to take your part into account. It's never before seen! And it's not because of the covid! The covid today does not explain these closed beds in hospitals. It's never been seen to have so many closed beds in so many units at the same time. The big reason is a lack of nurses and caregivers. This is not just about the attractiveness of the profession, even if it is fundamental and urgent – it is for me the priority issue in health policy today. We also find that nurses leave the profession, they are now in burn out. And it's not just because of the covid, there's a lot of other reasons. There are urgent issues to be resolved, and when you say that hospitals must no longer postpone care, I do not agree with you. There are so many closed beds that hospitals have no choice but to reorganize care and have to postpone interventions, including surgery. There is an impact on public health. What was urgent yesterday is still ten times more so today and I invite you to move forward on an attractive plan. There are reasonable proposals coming from the sector, but they are still not concrete. There is no space to move forward in this direction. Minister, listen to the field! These are responsible and reasonable proposals that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u50	This morning, I invited the social partners in the federal health care sector to define an agenda and a working method. I have told the sector that there is an urgent agenda on the one hand and a longer-term agenda on the other, and that they must be launched at the same time. I am absolutely convinced that urgent action is needed. I have provided the data available to me and this morning I brought together the social partners to discuss it and start the necessary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u51	Mr President, I would like to reply. Mr Minister, it is very good to finally see the social partners. Don't forget to meet with the nurses personally. Your office has seen them, but not you, to my knowledge. I think we've been too late and we need to put an accelerator on. Of course, there had been an agreement on a budget at the end of the previous legislature, which you are now implementing. I hear a lot about the willingness to do extra things in the long term and to postpone this to the next legislature. We can't afford it. We need to move forward right away, otherwise we risk going into the wall at the level of health care. This is the health care priority. Without the nurses, we're going in the wall!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u52	Minister, on 4 April the FAGG announced the appointment of a new Director-General for DG PRE Authorisation. This will replace Ms Musch with Mr Malonne, an old acquaintance who used to be Director-General DG POST. This latter function was also declared open. Last year, the new director was involved in a judicial investigation into the validation of serological tests in his partner's clinical lab. DG PRE Authorisation is a very important administrative function, and I assume that you expect an impeccable record of service from such a profile. How did the procedure for this appointment go? What agencies and resources were used for this purpose? How many candidates participated? How many candidates weren't stopped in the end? What criteria and what relative weighting were used? In the meantime, was the judicial investigation concluded? What was the outcome of this? What are the factors affecting the person concerned? Do you think the appointment of this person is justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u53	Ms Depoorter, the selection procedure for a management function at the Agency is based on the Royal Decree of 16 November 2006 on the designation and exercise of management and staff functions in certain public utility institutions. Under this Royal Decree, Selor is responsible for organising the selection procedure. The report of the selection committee drawn up by Selor shows that only a successful candidate has been ranked. During the oral trial before the Selection Committee, chaired by Selor, consisting of external experts in the fields of management, HR, medicines and civil servants, a number of technical competences, such as knowledge of the relevant actors in the field of medicines and health products, and generic competences, such as staff management and thinking style, were verified. At the end of the selection procedure, Mr Malonne was found fit for the post of Director-General PRE Authorisation. The court inquiry you're referring to is still under way and I have no information to report on this case. Since the conclusions of the judicial investigation are not yet known and given the outcome of the selection procedure, which has been carried out in accordance with the rules in force, I believe that there are no obstacles to the appointment of the only successful candidate for the position of Director-General PRE Authorisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u54	It is true, Minister, that it is only when it has been proven, but a promotion during an ongoing judicial investigation into possible conflicts of interest for serological tests that have first been overpaid 2 euros per test, after which the Secretary of State started negotiating with the firm in order not to swindle the state treasury, seems to me to be very far-reaching. We have had many discussions about the organisation within the FAGG. I am sure we will have it in the near future. If the government wants to have a reliable image, it is really necessary that you, as a responsible minister, convince yourself, but also the citizen, that the management positions in these services are filled in in an impeccable manner. You can't say that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament 55027978C by Mrs Depoorter on the one-off additional compensation for caregivers is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u56	It is interesting to get an update on this. I have already questioned Mrs Kitir about this. It had shifted EUR 7.5 million, committed to private public cooperation in development cooperation, to humanitarian aid. About the same time the news came that you would give medicines to Ukraine. Is this donation of medicines referred to in the Latest News of 18 May paid out of the resources of the Public Health Office or from those for development cooperation, particularly in the budget of Humanitarian Aid? Last week in Het Laatste Nieuws, the Vivaldi government also issued medicines that were not in perfect condition. Vaccines have already been ejected and threatened to lapse. Last week there was a discussion about a number of vaccines that were frozen. There was a risk analysis followed. You have also sent expired medicines to Ukraine to help victims of war. Surely you have violated a number of international rules with the expired medicines. What decisions do you take from that? Will that happen in the future? Do you think you have made a mistake here, or do you still think it is justified that these medicines have been sent? The reporter's investigation shows that another convoy has been stopped, taking into account international agreements. Who will pay for the loss of those convoys? After all, there was discussion about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u57	You ask a lot of questions at once. I do not know the budgetary statement by heart. Nor can I say who will pay for the loss of the convoys. The general rule is that the medicines for Ukraine are financed from the budget of the Public Health Office. Transport to Ukraine and neighbouring countries is financed at 75% or 100% by the European Commission. I do not have the details, but it is about a budgetary effort by Health. I've already given you what I'm going to repeat. There is a standard whereby donations must be made with products having a minimum shelf life of six months. In emergencies like a war, that can be different. At first delivery, a small amount of urgently needed medicines for Ukraine had too short an expiry date. When that was established, they were asked to comply with the standard of six months before the expiry date for the second delivery, as I have already given you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u58	Mr President, Minister, you say that you will not improvise, but the seventh point in my question was...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, I have answered that point. The medicines are financed by the FPS budget, but transport to Ukraine and neighbouring countries is 75% or 100% financed by the European Commission. You asked another question, and I am afraid to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u60	This shows once again that we must be careful when we are doing humanitarian aid or trying to help people. I'm sure everything happens with good intentions. After all, it is not the first time that the current government has donated things that we either do not need, such as Remdesivir, or are at risk of going down, such as vaccines, or are not provided with sufficient logistical support, such as vaccines that did not have syringes. Now you admit your mistake, namely that the medicines that were donated could not be used correctly for long enough. The expiry date was less than six months. There were also really expired medicines. So we really need to reflect. If we want to help, we must do so correctly. Reassurance is that the humanitarian budget has not been used for this purpose. That's good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u61	Mr. Secretary, my question comes from the field. A patient was admitted into a single room and informed that there would be a supplement of 57 euros, but not about the cost of the procedure, on which a surcharge of 150 % can be charged. I thought that was rather special. We have adopted a law laying down various provisions which enforce transparency in the treatment of the patient: the patient must be aware of the cost of the procedure at all times. Has the hospital in question gone wrong? What hospital doesn't matter? Can we be sure that patients, when choosing a single room for a diagnostic procedure, will indeed be informed in advance about the cost of the procedure and any associated fee supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u62	Mrs Depoorter, the law which contains various provisions to which you refer provides for the possibility of requiring healthcare providers to draw up a written cost estimate for their patient. That cost estimate shall include all elements determining the final cost of the healthcare provided to the patient, irrespective of its recoverable character. So it is indeed more than the supplements. This is part of a series of obligations to inform the patient beforehand about the financial consequences of the proposed treatment and therefore aims to further increase price transparency and price predictability. It is important to recall, however, that the provision in question does not entail an obligation until it is implemented by a royal decree which also lays down further modalities. I expect the committees of agreements or agreements to make a concrete proposal on this matter quickly. If not, I will work out a proposal myself. For the sake of completeness, I would remind you that the same law provides for a legal basis to inform the patient about the distribution, method of distribution and destination of the fees charged, but I must also say that that provision must first be implemented by a royal decree, in this case a royal decree submitted by the Council of Ministers. Once the further execution has been carried out by royal decree, for example, where hospital fees would be charged to the patient, both in the context of the invoicing of hospital benefits in kind, and for the billing of hospitalised patients, the method of distribution as well as the destination of the fees supplements on the hospital invoice or a document similar to the proof, should be indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u63	Thank you, Minister. There the shoe pinches: the law was passed, but the royal decree has yet to be drawn up. I hope that will happen soon, as you announced. After all, it was a poignant example of difficulties experienced by patients. We cannot afford to let patients fear that they will not be able to pay their hospital bills in these economically difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u64	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u65	Mrs Depoorter, what is the state of play? Several medicines against SARS-CoV-2 have already received a joint call for tenders at European level. This is particularly the case for sotrovib, a monoclonal antibody, and for remdesivir, an antiviral agent. For Evusheld, Paxlovid and Lagevrio, the doses ordered by the Belgian Government were the subject of bilateral contracts negotiated directly between the pharmaceutical companies and the Belgian State. The possible purchase of antivirals in the coming months will be subject to several joint procurement contracts at European level. This is indeed the case for Paxloid and Veklury or remdesivir, for which joint procurement contracts are currently under negotiation. Lagevrio or Molnupiravir has also been awarded a joint procurement contract, but this has been suspended. Additional clinical data are awaited at European level. You also ask me if I can guarantee that the purchased virus inhibitors can be reordered. For Xevudy or sotrovib, Veklury or remdesivir, Lagevrio or molnupiravir, Paxlvid or nirmatrelvir/ritonavir and Evusheld or tixagevib/cilgavimab there are possibilities for additional purchases after budget approval. You referred to a major study in the United Kingdom. There, the usefulness of prescribing virus inhibitors in a family where a covid diagnosis was made was investigated and how virrus inhibitors can be used by general practitioners in possible new waves. You asked me how I felt about that. This approach can, on the one hand, protect family members from serious diseases and, on the other hand, help to stop the further spread of the virus. However, this presupposes a treatment that demonstrates additional efficacy in a population that has been largely vaccinated, even if people do not yet show symptoms or if close contact such as a family member has been infected. The medicine must also be easy to use and well tolerated and affordable for large-scale use. Clinical research in this sense is certainly to be encouraged, even though the structures for carrying out such studies in the first line are not yet well developed in Europe, unlike in the United Kingdom. The antiviral medicine Paxlovid has already been tested with a large-scale trial, but the topline results were negative. In the UK, the study is scheduled to start during the summer and Lagevrio (molnupiravir) may be used as a virus inhibitor. However, the discussion is still ongoing. Frankly, there is nothing positive to conclude from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u66	As you can see, Minister, these joint procurements take a long time to reach an agreement. Much has been announced, but some negotiations are still ongoing and others have been suspended. So it remains a focus to ensure that these virus inhibitors get to our patients in time, especially if we need to prepare for a new wave. Let's hope it doesn't happen, but preparation is everything and that possible wave in the autumn should definitely be looked at. It is a pity that studies on the prophylactic use of molnupiravir, for example, cannot be rolled out in our country. Last year I mentioned that. At that time, the prophylactic effects of molnupiravir were already praised in certain studies. What is the message for the future? We need to ensure that the clinical trials can be implemented in a simple way, even in the first line, and ate the virus inhibitors can be distributed by the first line, so prescribed by the GP and simply picked up from the pharmacist. This could be a real added value in the fight against future waves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u67	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed the reimbursement of HPV vaccination on a number of occasions. The HPV vaccination for boys and girls is fully reimbursed through the Flemish government. When a girl falls out of the boat, she can still get a refund for the vaccination via the house pharmacist and the GP, but that is not the case for boys. In reply to my previous question, you indicated that the company had submitted a clock stop, but I have been told that the file has been activated again and that the CTG has already issued an opinion. What does that mean in concrete terms, Minister? What does the CTG's advice include? By when is it expected or formalized? Will you agree to that advice? Scientific insights indicate that reimbursement up to 26 years is also recommended for boys. What are the concrete actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u68	Mrs Depoorter, in the text that has been tabled, your questions are even more specific, which is not insignificant. Although I did not expect the advice of the CTG until later and the CTG had time until the end of July, I was able to receive it very recently. You may know by now that I will not publish that CTG opinion as long as the CTG procedure is under way. I have to make the decision by the end of August at the latest. I understand that a lot of people are waiting for that decision and that there is also a great curiosity about that advice, but I will not say that now, since the procedure is still ongoing. I certainly do not intend to delay, I want to make a decision soon. In that respect, your question is still a little too early, although I do not mean that you should not ask them. I hope I can make rapid progress in making a decision. In your text, you also ask me whether I would like to have the alternative path to make the decision to repay myself examined further. I think that question has to do with what you say in the introduction to your questions: if the CTG opinion is negative, can the Minister himself intervene? Once again, I have an ongoing procedure, so I cannot yet say what will be the case. I will, of course, take a very thorough look at the CTG's opinion and decide on that basis. I can deviate from the CTG opinion on the basis of social or budgetary elements, and I must motivate it very well if necessary. You also ask me if I would start a procedure to evaluate a refund up to 26 years. There too, Mrs Depoorter, it is undoubtedly frustrating, but I am not going to give you an answer on that at this stage. That also depends on how the current dossier is settled. I really have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u69	Thank you, Minister, I understand. You can't put the procedure aside. Patience is a good thing. I expect an answer in August. I hope for a positive response, so that we can continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u70	Mr President, Minister, this is a follow-up question to the discussion just now, but the question is a little more specific about the functioning of these mental health networks. For 11 years there has been work in project form. There is no legal personality. As a result, governance is not regulated either. The multi-annual framework, to which I have just asked, is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. In your coalition agreement, you also talk about setting up a cross-cutting agreement committee on mental health. Can you tell me again what's going on with this committee? I didn't hear that before. How do you stand by creating a legal personality for the mental health networks? You have just cycled around the multiannual plan, which you have announced ambitiously. Could you give some explanation on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u71	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments. You know the history of the networks, of course. This started with mental health reforms, which set up adult networks in 2010. This was also the case for children and young people in 2015. With the new convention, which we mentioned earlier, for psychological care in the first place, we are building on that landscape and on those networks. That story is not easy, because we really want to create a cultural change in the approach. However, we also want to move ahead quickly on the ground. That's what we were talking about earlier. We have first of all put the emphasis on working on the needs of the population in the story of mental health. Actually, there's some kind of population funding planned. We have asked that people should be close to the citizen, in cooperation with local actors, such as general practitioners, CLBs and OCMWs, and that sites should be developed. We have to bear in mind that a network level with a scale of at least 300,000 inhabitants to even a region with 1 million inhabitants is too large a level to achieve those objectives, namely close to citizens and cooperation with, among other things, general practitioners, CLBs, OCMWs. If that is the case, a scale such as the first-line zones and the four antennas in Brussels will be considered in Flanders. These are structures that are still under development. Flanders is at the forefront of this, but the first-line zones are a recent development. That is why we have decided to work with the existing networks for the time being, but we want the networks to be further decentralised and try to be close to the ground. That is not entirely an answer to your questions, but that is just a reflection I would like to give on why the networks and their limitation and the mandate given to them. You also mentioned the transversal agreement committee on mental health care, provided for in the government agreement. Meanwhile, in the multi-annual framework of the budget procedures in the RIZIV, the processes are also ongoing to achieve new regulation in a transversal way and to structure the different transversal processes, including those in mental health care. As far as I am concerned, this is part of the multiannual budget. We were just talking about a lab. It is our belief that we are working in the right direction, but that we still need to evaluate. One of the particular aspects is the question of whether the networks can bring this to a successful conclusion. Will they be able to go to an even smaller scale in a decentralised way and work to get care close to the people? That's the challenge. That is another challenge than, among other things, the legal personality you mentioned, but that is what concerns me most now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u72	Legal personality is very important for their functioning. If we want to go to a continuum, it is essential for those people. There is therefore a problem in this large scale and in the fact that mental health care needs to be brought very close to the citizen. The N-VA wants to take the entire healthcare system to the Flemish level. Do the same with this part of health care, namely mental health care. That would certainly be a promotion for the patient. I expect the transversal agreement to continue this term of office. We will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u73	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my written question. The point has already been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u74	Mr President, I do not know whether the members of the committee are insisting. We have indeed discussed the issue. For the question of the financial basis of the premium, which is EUR 100 million, I have already explained in committee that it was part of the EUR 600 million budgeted for the great social agreement. I have also explained how the amount will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u75	Mr Minister, we are dealing with mixed questions. Mrs Depoorter referred to the written version of her question, but Mrs Merckx does have another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u76	Minister, you have already explained a great deal about this, but there were a number of specific issues to which I would like an answer. For example, I would like to know how many nurses would receive the special professional title and the premium of EUR 2,500 and how many nurses would receive the special professional premium of EUR 833. You also did not explain how you paid a premium of 400 euros. I also want to know what the situation is for healthcare professionals who have not switched to IFIC, how high the current premiums they receive and how big the difference is. Finally, you announced in the press that you would be sitting with the staff today, 14 June. Is there anything you can tell us about what came out of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u77	The premium of 400 euro gross for those working full-time is for everyone, whether or not they have joined IFIC. Of the EUR 100 million still available from the large pot of EUR 600 million of the social agreement, what happens when it is distributed among the wage-earners in the federal health care system? If this division is made, it will amount to just over EUR 400, but that has to do with the fact that we are also spending EUR 100 million on a specific task for which we are asking for additional staff in the hospital staffing services. This is how we want to improve the quality of work organisation. It also has to do with the need to take account of employers' contributions. If one distributes EUR 93 million in proportion, linearly among all the staff, the gross premium that can be paid once a year is EUR 400 for those working full-time. Secondly, the specialization complement that we are now introducing, eight twelfths this year and twelve twelfths from 2023 onwards, is proportional to the working regime of those concerned. If you have a special professional title, you get 2,500 euros gross in 2023 if you work full-time and half if you work half-time. Nurses with special professional qualifications receive EUR 833 gross if they work full-time. You asked about how many people we're talking about. Unfortunately, as for a lot of things, we do not have precise statistics on this. It is estimated that there are potentially 11,800 nurses with special professional qualifications and 1,950 nurses with special professional qualifications. Why is that an estimate? These are people who step into the IFIC beremas, not the others. We do not know how many people that will eventually be, as people can make the choice again. People who do not switch to the IFIC scheme retain their right to a premium in the existing BAT/BBK system, in so far as they continue to work as nurses. Maybe in abundance, I don't think that in itself are miracle solutions. I think we need a whole battery of measures. That is exactly why I gathered the social partners this morning. I've already told Mrs. Fonck that. I am very concerned about the shortage of staff. Perhaps I did not sound alarmed enough in my earlier reply to Mrs Fonck, but I am very concerned about the issue. I told the social partners this morning that, on the one hand, I want to take action in the very short term and, on the other hand, we need a long-term agenda, which will require more time and which will have to work on the ground and on a structural basis. We will indeed have to do more than that. That's obvious. I also told the social partners that I did not see a comprehensive budget for a new social agreement in the budget for 2023 and even for the budget for 2024. This does not mean that there is nothing we can do for the long-term agenda. However, we will have to count on some of the things that will be possible in the next legislature. In the very short term, we must look at what we can do to combat the scarcity. In the longer term, we really need to develop an agenda in which work in care is also adapted to developments in care. We have not made any decisions this morning, but I have outlined my views on the agenda, the approach and the manner of consultation. I said we'd work that out against another appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u78	Minister, I will not reopen the discussion. I noticed in your answer that it is very difficult to calculate where the people are and how many are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u79	That's because they still have to choose. They can choose twice. People in the private sector can choose again if they want to step into IFIC, because that premium is now being added. In the public sector, the first selection process is still ongoing. Unfortunately, this has been delayed, but the negotiations have taken a very long time. I can't know how many people will have chosen for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u80	This means that the budget can be very difficult to draw up. That was indeed my point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the important additional details. There's a lot of dissatisfaction about it, and we get a lot of questions about it. You have heard that many professional titles are just outside its scope. I certainly welcome your statement that you want to do a thorough job of it and that you are concerned about the situation in the sector. At the same time, you say that there is no additional budget available for the next legislature. When I find that the government is currently having discussions to increase the Defence budget to 2% of GDP and to that end it has an additional auction of EUR 5 billion per year, I think that our healthcare providers deserve better than the present proposal. It's up to the government to make choices for care and their patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u82	Mr Minister, the vaccines have already been mentioned today and I tabled this question because we read in Le Soir that many vaccines against COVID-19 had to be discarded because the expiry date will be exceeded. I think you've already confirmed a certain number of doses. Last week we also read an angry letter from ten Eastern European countries to the attention of the European Commission. They're suing the mandatory number of vaccine purchases. After all, our country is not the only country that has to throw away vaccines. All of Europe has signed contracts with the pharmaceutical industry, which run until 2023. In total, this amounts to 4.2 billion doses, which corresponds to the tenfold increase in the population of the European Union. Most of these vaccines still need to be delivered, even though 81 percent of the adult population of the European Union has already been vaccinated. Countries must therefore continue to pay for vaccines that will end up in the dumpster. Throughout the European Union, tens of millions of vaccines are being withdrawn from stock. The ten countries that wrote the letter claim that they cannot justify this waste of taxpayers' money and therefore argue for a revision of those contracts. Minister, how is it that such a high number of vaccines will be destroyed? Were too many vaccines actually ordered? What was the cost of the vaccines being destroyed? How much is the cost of destruction? What lessons do you draw for the maintenance of the strategic stock, to prevent such waste? What steps are you taking at European level to stop the planned deliveries if they cannot be used usefully? Will you support the ten signatories to the letter in their call for the contracts to be revised? Do you also, if necessary, reconsider the contracts that Belgium has signed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall first go over Mrs Depoor's questions because Mrs Merckx's questions also include the European debate. The FPS Public Health is constantly informed about the size of the available and occupied storage capacity. If necessary, the FPS has stipulated in the contracts that the designated distributor should be able to expand the storage capacity as needed. The Länder may store vaccine doses available to them within their quotas with the federal distributor. They shall report regularly on the state of their stocks. On 7 June, the Federal Public Health Office had 573,300 doses of Pfizer vaccines for twelve-plusers, 156,700 doses of Pfizer paediatric, 248,460 doses of Pfizer RTU, 2,259,400 doses of Moderna and 185,550 doses of Johnson & Johnson. The Länder have additional stocks of vaccines. They're stored with the federal distributor, in hubs or vaccination centers. How many of these will expire within three months? The Public Health Office has 25,740 doses of Pfizer 12+ and 1,357,900 doses of Moderna which expire within three months, i.e. before the end of August. How much of that is provided for donation? We've allocated 12.8 million doses of vaccines to international donations. These are to a large extent vaccines that are not supplied in Belgium but directly by the company to COVAX. The donation from the Belgian stock goes through the UCPM mechanism through bilateral channels. More recently, it has also been provided for under COVAX. In recent months, demand for vaccines has fallen significantly, in particular through the COVAX mechanism to which Belgium contributes. However, the Belgian authorities are still responding to evidence of interest from third countries. At the moment, however, there are no donations in progress. How much of the stock that's gonna fall, do I think it's gonna be lost? Each vaccination campaign is accompanied by the loss of vaccines. Although all actors in the Belgian vaccination campaign, federally or partially, do everything possible to minimise this, losses are inevitable. They are caused by incidents, such as the floods we have known and power cuts, by manipulations during the thawing and preparation of vaccines, by vials that are not used entirely within the specified time period or by problems in the storage of vaccines. Most of the losses are due to the short duration of validity of the vaccines, from six to twelve months, and the expiry of unused stocks that do not find a re-destination through donation. I would ask for some understanding of the challenge facing us all. There is a constant uncertainty about the vaccination phase to follow and the evolution of the pandemic. We always want to be able to offer vaccines adapted to the whole population, regardless of their indication of target groups and the number of doses required. By using multiple vaccine types and concluding European procurement contracts at a time when it was not yet clear which vaccines would be working, we have made it possible for the entire population to be vaccinated. This was a cautious and successful strategy, but the side effect of it is that we are now dealing with surpluses. It is difficult to predict at this stage what quantities of vaccine will actually be destroyed. This will depend on the next stages of the vaccination campaign and its success, the actual timing of the next deliveries, the future international donations that can still take place and the stability data of the vaccines. As you know, there are negotiations on supplies between the European Commission and the manufacturers. We have concluded a negotiation with Pfizer. There's also a negotiation with Moderna. The stability data is also evolving. Sometimes new data show that the lifespan of a vaccine can be extended. That was the case recently with Pfizer's vaccines. As far as your sixth question is concerned, no major new purchases are planned at this stage. Future deliveries under the current contracts are sufficient to cover and even exceed the quantities of vaccines that may be destroyed. Mrs Depoorter, you then asked whether there was any change in the relationship between the different types of vaccines. That is true, for the simple reason that we will no longer have AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson. This causes a shift towards the mRNA vaccines, to Pfizer and Moderna. Finally, you asked what is the total value of the vaccines that are at risk of going down. When vaccine doses can no longer be used in the time available to vaccinate a citizen, they should be destroyed. The loss can be estimated on the basis of the cost of purchase and storage per dose of vaccine and the cost of destruction. These vary according to the volume to destroy. To date, doses of vaccine have not expired in stock and it is still possible to use them in Belgium or internationally within their period of validity. If you ask me what the value of the already expired vaccines is, I cannot yet answer them. Mrs Merckx, you are absolutely right that this is an important European debate. This morning there was the meeting of the Council of Health Ministers in Luxembourg. There my representative, our ambassador, and the others informally talked about the vaccine purchases among other things. The report is not yet available, so I am not sure. However, our ambassador had to emphasise strongly that we believe that vaccines that are supplied and cannot be used are an absolute waste. The European Commission must therefore make every effort to renegotiate these contracts in order to avoid such waste. During re-negotiation deliveries are postponed, the question is asked whether vaccines can be supplied adapted to the variants and, if possible, whether the volume of the supply can be reduced. This last point is made by the Eastern European countries. The initiative of Poland and a number of Eastern European countries to write and publish a separate letter did not consider Belgium to be the most efficient initiative. We believe that the Member States should act jointly and unanimously. That does not mean, however, that we do not share the fundamental concerns. I do not yet have a report on what has been said today, if anything has been said about it. I did, however, instruct our ambassador to intervene in this sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u84	If I ask you, Minister, what is the total value of the vaccines that are at risk of going down, you can, of course, make a calculation based on the number of vaccines that are likely to expire within three months. It's true, you can still administer them to patients who haven't had a booster shot. There's still a lot of them. You can also administer them as a fourth shot this summer, but then you don't actually work optimally. However, you cannot donate them anymore. After all, there is an international agreement that vaccines must be valid for at least three months. If we make a quick sum, we are talking about at least EUR 25 to EUR 30 million. That's a lot of money. It is particularly unfortunate that three billion people are still waiting for vaccination. If this COVAX initiative had been better developed, if less had been called for and more done, we might have been able to help people effectively with these resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u85	Minister, you have given a number of figures, but you have not calculated how many vaccines will be lost. If we go by what you said, we are talking about more than a million vaccines, if I understand correctly, which will expire within three months. It is also about more than three million in the federal stock. Unless a massive booster shot is given, many of those vaccines will be lost. Of course, it is important to renegotiate those contracts. Those companies took advantage of the panic that was there, so a lot was bought. Instead of the whole world working together, it's all for itself. The United States took the lead and then Europe jumped and concluded all those contracts. As a result, there was a very uneven distribution of vaccines in the world and there are now surpluses that need to be disposed of. It is clear to me that we should have dealt with this in a very different way at world level. However, there is still time to review these secret contracts effectively and to ensure that we do not have all these surplus vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u86	Mr. President, Minister, it seems that, for some time now, many patients have no longer had access to Litican, an anti-vomitory necessary especially for cancer patients. Some patients are forced to obtain them from other patients in order to relieve their symptoms. However, the AFMPS site announces a return of this medicine for March 1, 2023 only. Minister, how do you explain that this medication is in short supply? Is there a possibility that it will return to the market before the announced date, which is quite distant? What are the alternatives for the patients involved? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u87	Dear colleague, Sanofi has informed the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) of a long-term shortage of packaging of 20 Litican 50 mg tablets due to a shortage of the active substance. The AFMPS has contacted the firm, but the end date cannot yet be confirmed with certainty. Litican 50 mg solution for injection is still available. Domperidone-based medicines can be used for most indications. In addition, 5-HT3 antagonists (granisetron, ondansetron, palonosetron, tropisetron) can generally be substituted in a number of Litican indications for a number of patients in whom nausea or vomiting cannot be controlled. NK1 antagonists (fosaprepitant, aprepitant) are an option. It is up to the treating physician to decide which alternative is best for his patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that we will remain attentive because we often ask you about the shortage of certain medicines which, not for the majority of patients but in some cases, proves to be problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u89	Minister, solar products are supposed to protect against two types of rays. The protective factor or SPF (Sun Protection Factor) refers to protection against UVB rays, which are responsible for sunburn. They must also offer protection against UVA rays, which are responsible for the aging of the skin. In Europe, UVA protection must be at least one third of the protection against UVB. These two types of rays are responsible for skin cancer. Test Purchases analyzed 16 sun protections. As a result, some products do not comply with the promised protection against UVB and/or UVA radiation. Even more shocking, one of these creams is specifically intended for babies and young children. Recent news also reminds us that other products are concerned. As the spokesperson for Test Achats pointed out, "it is not only illegal, but it is also unacceptable when we know that young children are particularly vulnerable to the effects of the sun". On the other hand, we know that many sunscreens contain harmful ingredients, such as endocrine disruptors and other potentially carcinogenic components. It is a bit paradoxical that we are encouraged to protect our skin from the dangers of the sun with products that are harmful to our health. Minister, how can we ensure that the compositions on the packaging of cosmetic products in general are not misleading? Test Purchases filed a complaint with the Public Health FPS against products not respecting the promised protection. What has been the follow-up to this complaint? Will these products be removed from the market or, at the very least, will the protective index be adapted to the packaging? What measures are you considering to remove harmful ingredients from sunscreens, especially those intended for children? What does the European directives provide for in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u90	Minister, my question had already been submitted before Test Purchase yesterday communicated on Biosolis. I hope you don't mind me taking that point. My question was mainly about the active substance octocrylene in solar products. In the search for healthy solar products, about which we had a whole discussion last year just before the summer, substances that are marked as safe by Europe are often clashed, provided they are not present in too high quantities. For example, Europe says about octocrylene that the substance is potentially hormone disrupting from 10% onwards and is therefore worrying. If one asks for this from producers of sunscreen products, they recognise their presence, but add that they comply with European legislation, without considering the percentage of that substance present in the solar product. According to the label of such a bus there is water on in the first place and the second most common ingredient is octocrylene. As a conscious consumer, I want to know how much percent is in it. Producers may claim to comply with the rules, but are not transparent about them. I hope they will have to give up the percentage for the samples by the FPS Public Health or by the FPS Economy. Now they honk that their product is a very efficient filter. I want to believe that and not give the impression that we should not use solar products, because the consequences may be so much worse. In any case, I find it a difficult balance. Cynisch is that anyone looking on the Belgian market for products without octocrylene, comes to the Biosolis gamma. That's what Test Purchase says it doesn't do what it promises. How can one buy a solar product on the Belgian market which protects the skin well, which does not contain harmful hormone disrupting substances and does what it promises?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u91	Mr Vanbesien is sorry, so his question is no. 55028300C without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u92	Mr Minister, as my colleagues have pointed out a number of points, I come immediately to my questions. The SPF Santé publique had stated that it would contact the authorities of the countries where the registered office of the solar creams in question was located. Have these contacts been made? With what result? Test Purchases had very hard words, saying that the consumer was exposed to lies or even dangers. I saw last night a communication from the Public Health FPS seem to be relativizing the findings of Test Purchases. Where are we? What are the results of the complementary tests? If these tests have not been performed, how do you explain this public health FPS communication? What about suspicious products? Are they still on the shelf in Belgium or were they removed from the market, as was the case a few years ago for the same problem? It is very complicated for consumers to know exactly what they are and what they can buy by being reassured about the quality of the product and protection against skin cancer when exposed to the sun. Should not the controls be adapted and how they are carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u93	Minister, three new solar products of the Belgian brand Biosolis were examined and examined by Test-Achats. None of the three products seem to offer the protection promised on the packaging. The consumer organisation subsequently lodged a complaint with the Federal Public Health Service against these products and requested that they be withdrawn from the market as a matter of urgency. The complaint also asked for this to be done with the other products that previously came into dispute, including those of the Swissal brand, which are specifically intended for children. That's my heartfelt concern. Test-Aankoop added that they are Belgian products and therefore the FPS public health has the full power to decide. The matter concerns me, because Test-Achats has already asked about Switzerland. In the meantime, everyone knows that sunlight causes too much skin cancer. Moreover, this is a product for children. In the meantime, we also know that burning regularly during childhood increases the risk of skin cancer many times. We're back at that time of year. It seems to be a seasonal question, but it's purely serious. It's all about lure. If the information is correct, then we smear our children with products that do not adequately protect against what is, however, a major danger. Do you have eyes on the deadline for the investigation by the FPS? What measures will you take to ensure the safety of children in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u94	Mr President, there has been a reference to very recent developments. Mrs Creemers herself acknowledged that she added a number of new elements to her question. I'm afraid to improvise on that. After all, the dossier is not only very technical; it is also delicate. What I'm giving you must be right. I shall therefore confine myself to the prepared answer. In any case, it contains a number of important elements. Cosmetic products are regulated at European level by Regulation 1223/2009. The list of ingredients, classified according to their decreasing concentration, is a mandatory labelling statement on the products. Products shall be declared on a basis of notification from the European Commission with their composition. It is the Inspection Department of the Public Health FPS that controls the veracity of the packaging information. The Public Health FPS did receive the plain of Test Purchases and immediately conducted investigations. Some of the solar care products in question have a manufacturer or a responsible person in another European Member State and are therefore controlled by foreign services. We have contacted the competent inspection services of the countries where the firms responsible for the products in question are established. It will be up to the respective inspection services to take the necessary steps in the evaluation of the products. Some have already responded to our request. In these cases, it appears, after internal investigation, that the alleged protective factors are correct and the products are compliant. In the case of the product in question for which the person responsible is Belgian, the Inspection Service is in the process of reviewing the information package submitted and the analyses carried out. The service is in close contact with the company to identify whether there is a problem for the product in general or only a certain batch. The FPS Public Health Inspectorate, however, requested further information on the determination of the UVA protection factor, the methods being used by the company and the Procurement Tests being different, although both accepted. The response time is still short. If there is a justified risk to public health, we will initiate the necessary procedures for withdrawal from the market. However, it is important to point out that the method of assessing the protective factor follows ISO 24444, subject to certain reproducibility problems which can be explained in several ways: the type of lamps used for the tests, the UV dose used, the absence of standardized guidelines for the classification of erythema, the sensitivity of the laboratory technician, etc. In this way, laboratories will bring a different value to the protective factor. A statistical method is being discussed between the inspection services of the authorities of each Member State in order to solve this type of problem. Cosmetic products are all subject to toxicological assessment, as laid down in European regulations. Their safety assessment is used to determine their safety by taking into account each ingredient and its exposure. In addition, if used in sensitive groups, a specific assessment is carried out, while a factor is added when used in children. With regard to solar products, this dossier must include UVA and UVB protection tests. Solar products used in children may or may not be intended for the whole family. A ban on certain substances in those intended solely for children would therefore have only a limited impact. Labelling of these products is a more general and proportionate approach and allows consumers to remain properly informed and free of choice. At the European level, the safety of ingredients is assessed by the Scientific Committee for Consumer Products (CSPC), which takes into account the latest data and exposure conditions. A major evaluation campaign is under way concerning the potential endocrine disruptors present in cosmetic products in order to regulate their uses, if any. If a component is declared carcinogenic, the chemicals legislation applies, and it is included in the list of prohibited ingredients. Derogations are possible, but rare, and are accepted only under strict conditions and after demonstration of product safety by the SCCP. The Public Health FPS pays particular attention to these two themes in the event of a change in European legislation. The National Action Plan on Endocrine Disruptors (NAPED) provides for Belgium to adopt an ambitious position at European level, so that endocrine disruptors are gradually eliminated from consumer products, including cosmetics, due to their harmful effects on human health and/or the environment. On the other hand, one of the objectives of NAPED is to plebiscite a healthy substitution of the chemicals identified as endocrine disruptors. For example, awareness-raising campaigns will be conducted among industrialists. In addition, economic regulation tools will be identified in collaboration with the Economy FPS to promote substitution of potentially hazardous chemicals, such as endocrine disruptors. I come to the European provisions which prohibit the use of "paraben-free" or "phthalate-free" terms. Information for consumers and health professionals on the composition of consumer products such as cosmetics is indeed essential. Awareness-raising and information actions for these target groups will therefore be included in a future national action plan for hormone disrupters, the NAPED. That plan has as its main objective to reduce our exposure to hormone disrupters. To be useful, the information must be accurate and precise. For all constituents there is the absence of classes of substances such as parabens or phthalates, although their properties may vary considerably from substance to substance. Some of these substances do not pose a risk in cosmetics products and have an important function such as protection against pollution. Claims about the absence of a substance or group of substances do not contain information on the other ingredients of the product and may lead to undesirable substitutions. An approach by substance based on the list of ingredients on the product label is therefore preferable. In this context, inspection services will continue to monitor compliance with the provisions of the EU Regulation 655/2013 on claims on cosmetic products. I shall now answer the specific questions concerning the presence of octocrylene in sunscreen by Mrs Creemers. For each cosmetic product available on the market, there is a product information file containing all relevant information for the product. The safety of the products shall be carefully assessed and demonstrated in the product information file containing the following: the description of the product containing the packaging, use, labelling, the full safety assessment of the product, the follow-up of complaints, the description of the production methods. The composition must comply with the restrictions of the Regulation on cosmetic products. To verify the parameter, the FOD Inspection Service may request the product information file. If there is a risk of non-compliance, it is possible to carry out an analysis. The inspection service will then draw up an annual plan based on risk analyses and coordinated inspections by EU Member States. In recent years, the focus has been on the control of wholesalers who import many products from third countries, on cooperation with customs and on the generalisation of controls throughout the distribution chain. The checks resulted in sampling and analysis of some 50 cosmetic products and were also accompanied by an examination of the claims made on the label. Sunscreens were not considered risky and were not specifically checked. Such products are controlled in wholesale and distribution chains. The current database of the Department of Consumer Products Inspection of the FPS Public Health does not allow the breakdown of the statistics according to the type of product. In recent years, the inspection has focused on skin and tooth bleaching agents and the analysis of the presence of hydroquinone, glucocorticoids, mercury and the percentage of hydrogen peroxide. No specific campaign has yet been launched for the quantitative analysis of sunscreen products. The fastest and most effective way to control a cosmetic product is to check the labelling and product information file. Protection from the harmful effects of the sun is an important point for public health, particularly for the prevention of skin cancer. UV filters are substances that should only be present in cosmetic products if they have received a positive opinion from the European Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety. The latest opinion on octocrylene was delivered in 2021. Some toxicological aspects are still being studied. Each cosmetic product, including sunscreens, shall be subjected to a toxicological evaluation demonstrating its safety. The FPS Public Health promotes the correct use of sun creams on its website and also participates in the campaign Safe in the sun. The organisation of prevention campaigns is, however, the responsibility of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u95	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I look forward with great interest to the results of the major evaluation campaign that is underway concerning endocrine disruptors. It is true that this controversy, which highlights sunscreens, particularly affects us when it comes to "deceived advertising" about the protection index, especially for products intended for children. We try to protect them, and protect ourselves from possible skin cancer. But in doing so, of course, we do not want to spread products that would be harmful to their health in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I still have a number of detailed questions, but I will ask a new question. I have two reservations about your answer. You say that the customer must be properly informed in order to have freedom of choice, but a number of regulations do not allow proper information. If I ask producers of sun cream with octocrylene to do so, I will not get an answer on the percentages. I just want to know how much is in there to make the right choice. When it comes to potentially hormone-distorting substances such as octocrylene, you refer to Europe's information report. I read that. It states that as of about 9%, there is evidence that it is hormone disrupting. Then it is a sincere question to be properly informed of how much is in it. Is it not an idea to remove the prescription secret of companies for such substances, so that they have to communicate transparently how much is in them? As Mr Zanchetta says, it remains a choice. Of course we want to protect ourselves and we must protect ourselves, but if we are at risk of long-term harmful effects, then that cannot be the intention. We'll definitely talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u97	Mr Minister, the most striking thing is the total nebula for consumers. One day we draw their attention to the dangerousness of three products, the next we reassure them for two and we are in stand-by for a third. I can hear that the tests do not necessarily give the same results according to the laboratories. However, I am concerned about the differences between European countries. If I understand correctly, for Biosolis, for example, the results differ in Belgium according to the laboratories, unless checks have not been carried out at the level of the tests. You have not answered at all on this point. For foreign products about which you have had contacts and a return of foreign services, you say that there are no problems and that the protections are correct and compliant. But is it on the basis of tests? The question also concerns what has been done in our country. Has the SPF Santé carried out any tests or tests of the new tests for the Belgian product Biosolis? All this is terribly blurry. The important thing to protect yourself from the sun is to use quality products. It seems to me that both Belgian and European adaptation is essential in order to avoid misleading the consumer in terms of products and controls carried out, as stated in Test Achats. Much more clarity is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u98	Mr. Lester, thank you for your comprehensive presentation on hormone disrupters. In fact, a few weeks ago, we received a very good presentation from the Public Health Office in this committee. I think this is very important, but I feel a little bit like Mrs Creemers. It is a bit of choosing between the plague and the cholera, in the sense that this is the problem that the protection factor on the bus is simply not the right one. So children are lubricated with a product that does not protect enough. If it is taken into account that both manufacturers and the government assess the tests of Test Purchasing very qualitatively, then they are correct. I hear that a few months ago other products were also tested which are now on the market, but which have not yet been dealt with. I think that's a problem. Skin cancer is fucking dangerous. Every time children burn, they have a better chance of developing skin cancer later. I happen to know very well what I'm talking about. I am very sorry that we are not much stricter on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u99	Minister, this question dates back some time ago. I would like to take you back to the discussions on the mandatory vaccination of healthcare workers and the protests against them. Many people who work in healthcare do not agree with the generic framework that you have designed as Minister of Health and they are protesting. We have received many letters from organisations that are opposed to this mandatory vaccination and we have heard that many people are considering resigning or have already resigned. There are also healthcare workers who do not want to be vaccinated and who have taken up a law firm and are now in criminal and civil proceedings. I'd like to hear what message you want to give to the caregivers today. How do you respond to the complaint? What is the status of the protest against compulsory vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u100	Mrs Depoorter, on the state of the debate, I refer to the last debate we have had on this subject. There is absolutely no question of vaccination for care workers today. What is at issue is a draft law which provides a framework for the organisation of compulsory vaccination in the event that the epidemiological situation would be such that it is said, on the basis of scientific advice, that compulsory vaccination is on the agenda. You are talking about a dispute that would be initiated and which concerns civil and criminal liability for those who participate in the drafting of such legislation and its entry into force. I am not at all aware of any procedure in this respect, not to me or to other people. So I can't say much about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u101	Minister, the information on the judicial procedure was published. I can only accept your answer. We'll see what the future brings. However, what worries me all the time is the emptiness of care. You have just discussed the difficulty of getting care providers with Mr Fonck. In the discussion about the vaccination, whether or not compulsory, I had calculated that in Flanders it would be about 13,000 care providers who were not vaccinated and therefore threatened to be fired. You can't state your position today. It is absolutely necessary to remember the protests and to look for alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament 55028081C, 55028082C, 55028084C and 55028097C of Mrs Muylle are converted into written questions and question No. Mrs Muylle's 55028101C is hereby withdrawn. The attached questions of Ms. Sophie Rohony and Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine Nos. 55028108C and 55028344C are deferred at their request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u103	Mr President, to give others a chance, I will refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u104	(...) Medical evacuations are carried out within the framework of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. When an emergency situation transcends a country's response capabilities within or outside Europe, the country may request assistance through that mechanism. More specifically, a country can ask for help through the Emergency Response Coordination Centre (ERCC). This is registered in the Common Emergency Communication and Information System (CECIS). Member States and other participating countries can then offer assistance through the same system. The affected country can then accept or reject the offer. Medical evacuations go through the same process. Ukraine and neighbouring countries have requested help through the mechanism for patients who cannot, or no longer, receive the necessary medical treatment, for example oncological patients. For that we have made 150 hospital beds and 60 rehabilitation places available. We can therefore accept patients if the countries in question ask the question through the mechanism and if they accept the supply we offer. That's the framework. What can we do in the future? I repeat that there is an agreement to provide 150 hospital beds and 60 rehabilitation places for medical evacuations. So medical evacuations can still be carried out if there is such a need, with respect for the agreed quota. You ask if we would extend the system to persons with disabilities or mental disabilities. Then we go into the area of the powers of the Länder, but if someone with a disability or mental disability needs acute care in a hospital or rehabilitation, and the question is asked through the mechanism mentioned earlier, then the medical evacuation falls under the current agreement on hospital beds and rehabilitation places, where we are in our federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I suspect it's stayed with those seven Ukrainian patients so far. I don't know if the number of people who were eventually evacuated to this area is clear. Do you have eyes on that? Do you have the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u106	Yes, I should be able to give the figures, but I'm afraid to quote them by heart. There's a few of them. The figures have also been published in the press. However, I will not give it, because I am not documented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u107	I know about last week. In that case, I will ask for these figures by means of a written question. I am very much in contact, even yesterday, with Ukrainian delegations. Yesterday, the President of the Ukrainian Parliament was here. That is why it is always good to make clear what Belgium is doing. We often do not mention that. That is why I asked the question, to be very specific. We do a lot of humanitarian work. That's something very...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u108	I can ask Mrs Schellens to send you an e-mail containing the figures of the number of children we have received and what we can tell you about them. We must always do this with some respect for privacy and medical secrecy. We are rather brief in our information, but I already ask if Mrs Schellens will send you that information so that you have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u109	That is fine, because next week we will have another delegation from Ukrainian Parliaments. It is good to be able to give them that we donate not only military equipment but also other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u110	We'll document you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u111	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question is about the Investigative report on the shortage of nurses whose revelations were more than telling. There is this state of affairs about non-compliance with standards and the shortage of nurses. Two solutions were found. On the one hand, employment offices place Belgian nurses and, on the other, foreign recruitment offices will search for nurses abroad. Minister, have you seen the report? What is your reaction? Do you have any idea of the extent of investment practices as the Nexus agency does? These agencies place Belgian nurses who negotiate contracts with hospitals. How many nurses do they care? How many employment offices do they operate in this way? Is it legal to use nurses in this form? Is it regulatory to have nurses in the hospital who work under federal legislation and that others are hired and paid by an agency and benefit from apparently much better working conditions in view of the report? Will you take action on these acting office practices? Do you intend to ban them? The other problem concerns the well-known International Nursing Network, which places among other things Lebanese nurses, as revealed in the report. As I understand it, the hospital pays this agency 10,000 euros to recruit these nurses and has them sign a contract that says they can't get pregnant, that they have to talk down in the hospital and that they have to stay there for two years. Some hospitals have voluntarily stopped collaborating with this placement agency, but it is still recognised by the Walloon Region. Do you intend to prohibit such practices? You said you were going to prepare an adaptation to section 145 of the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions. What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u112	Mrs Merckx, I think I have already answered in plenary about this report. I repeat that the practices set out in the programme Investigation: Sickness of nurses are ethically reprehensible, because this deprives countries that need skilled workers, especially nurses, but they are also ethically reprehensible from the point of view of employment, because these nurses are employed in our country in an unacceptable way. Finally, these practices are also in terms of public health, if it appears that these nurses do not have the required skills.As far as recruitment agencies are concerned, I would like to point out that the registration and control of activities of such private companies is not the responsibility of the Public Health FPS, but fall within the competence of my colleague Pierre-Yves Dermagne, but I have already alerted him. His administration informed me that an investigation was under way. At my level, I cannot quantify the extent of the problem, whether it is about the number of companies involved or the number of nurses recruited in this way. It is important that anyone involved in these activities file a complaint in order to initiate an investigation. It is of course essential that nurses employed in our country possess the required skills and that they be assessed, in particular for citizens from countries outside the European Union. This requires an adaptation of article 145 of the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions. My administration is working on a vision note on the basis of an opinion of the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners, but we also expect a contribution from the Federal Council of Nursing. The aim is to develop consistent regulations applicable to all professions in order to ensure the quality of care and the safety of patients. As this is an amendment to the law, along with the legislative process that accompanies it, I cannot give you a precise timetable for the moment, but we will discuss it here. I think, Mrs Merckx, that I have answered your questions as far as possible. You asked if we should ban hospitals from working with those agencies. I believe that the challenge and mission lies in the area of Work, where these agencies should be monitored. The regions also have part of the power to control the interim agencies. So it is not up to the Public Health Office to say that there is a problem with a certain interim agency. It's up to us to signal complaints. It is up to the FOD WASO, Mr Dermagne's inspection, to take action on this matter. With regard to Article 145, we must indeed have a better instrument to ensure that labour migration is carried out correctly in order to integrate into our health care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u113	Mr Minister, it is true that you had already responded in plenary, but the report was very short at that time and it was only in the evening that we could fully see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u114	Yes! That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u115	I advise you to look at it; I don't know if you did. Two problems are described. On the one hand, interim offices offer services in hospitals and, in this regard, I understand that some of the competencies are with Minister Pierre-Yves Dermagne, but, as Minister of Health, you face the shortage of nurses and you have a competition there on the ground. It's something, I think, you have to take charge of.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u116	I couldn't agree more. This was also mentioned this morning in the discussions I had with the social partners. The finding that there are more and more so-called project nurses who come in in a separate way and are engaged in a separate way in the timetables not only disturbs the normal relations between the staff, but it is also excessively expensive. That's not good. This is something we must try to avoid with our policies. That is the whole story of the scarcity and revaluation of the profession. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u117	Minister, I think you should not only talk about it, but also take action. I do not know exactly what powers Mr Dermagne or yours have in this case. In any case, as Minister of Health, this certainly concerns health. Secondly, I also understand that there is a share of responsibility in the head of employment agencies, including nurses coming from abroad, and in part in the head of the regions, etc. However, it is not satisfactory to react only when there are complaints. This story shocked me too much. We have a kind of modern slavery that women live in who sign the commitment not to get pregnant and talk down in the hospital. I believe that, as Minister of Health, it is important that you send even a directive to hospitals to say that such practices are unacceptable in a country like ours. So I would expect a little more firmness from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u118	Questions Nos 55028186C, 55028190C and 55028191C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u119	Mr Minister, although it is not my custom, I now refer to the question that has been put, because I, like you, am running out of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u120	Mrs Lanjri, I will get straight to the point. I have, of course, also read the distress calls and alarming messages from the ambulance sector, not only with regard to urgent medical aid, the 112, but also with regard to non-112, non-urgent transport. Many of the private companies operating for the 112 service are also active for the non-112 service. The result is that in the coverage the two are a bit confused. There is, of course, an important distinction in terms of powers, because the federal government is solely responsible for urgent medical transport. Non-urgent transport is the responsibility of the Länder. I shall therefore confine myself to urgent medical aid, the 112. In the context of urgent medical assistance, 106 ambulance services are active. They assure 418 ambulance personnel. Six services organize permanences in different provinces and/or regions and are shown in the detailed table, which I provide to you through the committee secretariat, as federal services, just because we cannot only attribute them to one province or one region. For example, you need to understand the meaning of the term "federal services" in the table, which you will get. Under public services, accounting for 39 services with 299 permanences, we know three groups: cities and municipalities, intercommunals and firefighters through the relief zones. The latter group accounts for 33 services, with 293 permanences, and is therefore the most important group in urgent medical care. In private services, we have 67 services and 119 permanences, which is almost double the number of services compared to public services, but they assure less than half as many ambulance permanences. There are three types of private organizations. The first type are the cross associations, the Red Cross and the Flemish Cross, providing 5 services with 21 permanenties. The second type are hospitals, providing 36 services with 49 permanentities. The third type are other private organizations, accounting for 26 services with 49 permanentities. The largest number of private organisations can be found in Flanders, i.e. 16 out of 26 services with 27 out of 49 permanents, partly because some Flemish relief zones have closed down their ambulance services. I give you this very diverse picture to underline why it is very complex for the sector to reach a consensus in the working group on the recognition decision. In its work, the sector must take account, inter alia, of the differences in financial and social statutes, ranging from volunteers to self-employed persons, partners, employees from various private organisations and hospital workers, to civil servants from cities and municipalities and firefighters. After lengthy discussions, the working group has now completed the concept of recognition standards, which will be submitted for validation at the next plenary session of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance. With a favourable opinion from the NRDGH, I wish to see the concept translated into a draft KB as soon as possible. If we are to strive for quality and prevent abuses such as those to which you refer, we must invest in the sector. When we talk about budget 2023 in the federal government, I will also have to ask for a refinancing of urgent medical assistance if we want to do something about this. You will understand that I am counting on your support and on your group in the government if we seek additional resources for this. You mentioned a lawsuit. I will not comment on that. I'll let the Justice Department do her job. I do not have any figures on accidents involving priority vehicles, so I cannot say anything about that. I hope that I have answered your questions and that of Mrs Gijbels and you will receive a table to support the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic813x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is a case I have been following for a long time and I have already asked questions about it in the past. I know that this is a complex dossier and that it is a shared responsibility of the federal level and the regions, but a solution must be found. Now we see that there are abuses on the ground. I have no problem with you not taking a decision on a specific matter. That was not my question either, but it is by regulating the sector properly, with the participation of the sector itself of course, that we can tackle such abuses. It is therefore good that the working group's proposal is now finally ready and that it is submitted to the NRDGH for its opinion. I hope that we will be able to receive that advice soon and, with some luck, we may be able to see the draft before the recess for the first time. If that is not the case, I hope that we will be able to discuss and approve this at the end of September in the Committee on Social Affairs or in the Committee on Health. You can certainly count on our support to deal with these abuses.
