ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u1	Minister, a few months ago the newspaper Le Soir revealed that multinational Ericsson had paid the Islamic State to be able to transport its equipment to the territory of the terrorist group. I asked the Minister of Justice about the possibility of criminal proceedings against the Swedish multinational after you invited my colleague Roberto D'Amico, who sits on this commission, to do so. Minister Van Quickenborne had told me that no criminal investigation was under way in the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, taking into account the rules of extraterritoriality, before adding that he wondered whether Belgian justice was competent in this matter. Yet, four years ago, searches were carried out against the Brussels Lambert Group (GBL) listed holding company, because he was also accused of financing the terrorist group Daesh in Syria. The Indictments Chamber continues to deal with this case after a civil party has requested a further investigation. I asked the Minister of Justice about this double standard, but I also wanted to ask you a very simple question: at a time when the Swedish judiciary is opening an investigation into Ericsson, are you considering a moratorium on the development of the 5G network by this company? If this is not the case, what answer do you intend to provide in the event that the company's guilt is confirmed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u2	Mr Boukili, I had already replied to you at the plenary session on 9 March. Indeed, the measures taken in the "Security 5G" Act are examined at the time of the introduction of a file by the operators of a network. In this way, we verify whether the suppliers through which the 5G network operator wishes to deploy it pose a high risk to our society and our economy. This depends in particular on the quality of the elements of the network, the supply possibilities of the sector or users using the network, and the likelihood that the supplier will be subject to interference from a third country. This analysis is therefore based on the information available to the intelligence and security services and the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT). Ericsson told me that after their 2019 internal investigation into the Iraqi case, various collaborators were dismissed and that various other disciplinary and corrective measures were taken, such as, among other things, stricter internal processes in the region and the integration of lessons learned from the investigation of their ethics and compliance program. Then, they would have ended some relations with third parties and given priority to better training, awareness-raising, political and procedural activities in Iraq. As part of their advice, the intelligence services will verify this information and further examine whether there are still links with dangerous parties. It is on the basis of these opinions that the various ministers – we are six to be competent for this matter – will communicate a decision to the operator about its 5G network. If new elements arise, such as a change in the geopolitical situation, or other crucial elements, the decision of the six ministers will be reviewed and new opinions formulated. I am therefore quite calm that this process, which has a lot of checks and balances, will enable us to make the right security decisions for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear the case is under way and nothing is decided. The defence presented by Ericsson and the fact that the company conducts an internal investigation do not represent much: one cannot be both judge and party. Licencing a few collaborators does not suggest anything positive. This is about complicity with a terrorist State, and I do not think that this kind of decision can be decided by a few collaborators. There is an involvement of the management and even of Ericsson's mother house. Ericsson's type of subterfuge is not credible. Evidence of this is that the Swedish justice system is conducting an investigation. We must therefore be careful. What happens if Ericsson can no longer exercise in the territory because it turns out after investigation that there is complicity with Daesh, and therefore with terrorism – which would be very serious, since companies have been dismissed for less than that, including the Huawei company suspected of spying? It'll be a mess. It is necessary to prepare for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u4	Question No 55027524C by Mrs Depraetere is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u5	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday we learned that the Romanian company DIGI would enter the Belgian telecommunications market as the fourth operator following the auction of the 5G spectrum. This company will partner with Cegeka/Citymesh to develop its network for businesses and individuals. The sale would have brought in 1.2 billion euros to the Belgian State. The newspaper L'Écho states that the participation of NRB and Cegeka/CityMesh clearly did not give rise to a prolonged auction war, since the sale lasted just under three weeks. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, were you expecting a longer auction that would pay more? On the other hand, you have relied heavily on this new operator to compete and lower prices. Have you had any contact with DIGI? Is it committed to pursuing a trade policy to encourage lower prices in the sector? Does not the fact that there has been little competition for the purchase of frequencies worry you about the risk that the four telecommunications players will maintain high prices for consumers? Finally, DIGI announces its goal of building the best and most efficient network. Do you know what company they are going to work with to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the 5G auction is over. Has there already been an agreement on the public distribution of income between the federal level and the Länder? If so, what does the agreement look like? If not, when will you have the next Consultative Committee on this matter? Of course I am also interested in the roadmap for the further roll-out of 5G.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, Mr D'Amico, merci pour vos questions. I am very pleased that after three years of standstill we can finally take the step towards super-fast mobile internet via 5G. We have talked about it long enough, it has asked for more than enough preparation. However, we were able to organise this auction and in the meantime it has taken place. Er komen twee nieuwe specers, next to the other three, so there are five in total, it's still a breakthrough, een doorbraak. The government has facilitated the arrival of a new entrant by reserving spectrum at the reserve price, also imposing a less demanding schedule for coverage obligations and allowing for temporary national roaming on the network of an existing operator. With the arrival of DIGI, which will collaborate with Citymesh in the consumer market, we expect a fall in prices. Increased competition will certainly create pressure on prices, with more innovation and services offered. It is therefore a good thing for the consumer. I haven't had contact with them yet, but I guess it will come soon. Like you, I've only known since yesterday that Citymesh has partnered with DIGI to make this offer. I assume we will have the details of their strategy in the coming months. In addition, they have NRB and Citymesh, two players who will mainly serve the business market b2b. They will create additional competitive pressure in that segment and thus accelerate innovative business applications. I think, and many with me, that our country really needs to make a catch-up with our neighbouring countries. We have been lagging behind, but that may be an advantage, because we can now learn from the mistakes that others may have made. So we will be able to catch up very quickly, I am sure. Mrs Verhelst, the 5G dossier has been stagnant for several years due to disagreement over the distribution of revenue between the federal government and the Communities. The debate on this has begun and is continuing. It will take place again soon. We're gonna have to negotiate, which makes sense. In the meantime, we know that the regions are asking to see their share increased. Mr D'Amico, we get 1.2 billion with the auctions as we expected 800 million. I am therefore quite pleased that in three weeks, and with an excellent work by the IBPT that organized everything, we have two new entrants to the market. Something has to be done now. The operators have to switch to those frequencies. We expect this to last a few months, but 5G will probably be available to consumers in our country before the end of the year. The telecom players are completely free to organise that, to make mutual agreements and see how they will start. I hope they'll work together. They also have cover obligations which they have to meet and which we have registered in the law, as you remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u8	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I did not want to question the seriousness of the IBPT, which did very good work over three weeks. What worries me is that I look right next door, in France, which has four operators who are now talking about a merger between Orange and Bouygues Telecom. I read it again in this morning's Evening, it seems to me. We see that instead of having a large multiplication, we are moving towards a decrease. Orange's boss again spoke about the arrival of the new operator. He clearly said, "We know the beginning of the film and sometimes we even know the end." I fear that, in the long run, there will be this concentration again and that in the end, the benefit to the user will not be at the rendezvous. This is my fear and this is what happened recently in Italy and France.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It may be that there are several players who will merge later, but I have no problem with that. In the meantime, we have been able to raise a nice amount for the government. We welcome that. If there's no merger, there might be price agreements. I think competition always gets the best out of people. I am very pleased with this start. I will follow up the further roll-out of this and the correct distribution of revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u10	Madam Secretary, in your policy paper, you indicated that Proximus is a crucial player in the roll-out of fiberglass. In 2001, the roll-out rate of fiberglass doubled. You also say that we are ambitious and that by 2022 everything will be at cruising speed. By 2028, 70% of all households and businesses should be connected to the fibre network. Clearly there is still a lot of work to be done. Is the ambition to connect 70% of all families and businesses by 2028 still feasible? What specific actions are being planned to achieve this ambition? Do you currently experience restrictions to roll out that ambition? How do you explain that Belgium, at 6.5 %, is very much below the European average of 42.5 % in terms of the number of households that have the possibility of a fibre connection? Finally, what forms of cooperation or agreements have already been agreed within the sector in order to achieve this roll-out? In Flanders, Telenet and Fluvius collaborated and Proximus and Ethias join forces for the German-speaking community. Are there any other partnerships in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u11	Mr President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, almost a month ago I read in the press that the main shareholders of Telecom Italia and its competitor Open Fiber signed a preliminary agreement for the merger of the networks of the two telecommunications groups in Italy. The aim would be to launch a process leading to the creation of a single telecommunications network operator to speed up the development of high- and very high-speed Internet in the Italian peninsula and to avoid duplication in investments, which are extremely costly in this area. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, what do you think? Is this not proof that competition ultimately leads to the concentration of capital and the reduction of the number of enterprises, especially in a sector as strategic as that of telecommunications? How can we prevent duplication in terms of costly investment and prevent companies from subsequently reporting on the cost of telecommunications to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u12	Mr President, mevrouw Dierick, Mr D'Amico, thank you for this important question on fibre in Belgium. The ambition to connect 70% of families and businesses to fiber optics, to which you refer, is an ambition of Proximus itself. The company's rolling that out. In the first quarter of 2022 Proximus could have given 15% of its customers access to fiber and it wants to reach 22 % by the end of this year. Besides Proximus, there are other parties that also have ambitions. For example, Telenet and Fluvius have expressed the intention to roll out glass fibre in Flanders, and Orange in Wallonia. There is also the project in the German-speaking Community to roll out glass fibre together with Proximus. Many initiatives have been launched. Mr D'Amico, commercial partnerships are emerging in the Belgian market and will accelerate the deployment of broadband internet. I can only encourage all these partnerships. You are setting the example of Italy, but also in Belgium there are partnerships in place. Of course, we must follow the rules of competition law; and the more partnerships, the better we will be. The telecoms market is indeed a liberalised market. The operators choose where and how to roll out their fiber optics network. The federal government supports the process with a number of concrete initiatives. You know that we have drawn up a national broadband plan, with, for example, the creation of a national Broadband Competence Office, which coordinates and acts as a point of contact for investors. In addition, we have provided EUR 41 million in grants for the construction of high-speed telecommunications networks in the white zones; les zones blanches, which remains toujours un point d'attention. The BIPT has also set up an information pathway to inform and sensitise all stakeholders. There is also a website, fiberglassinfo.be. That website should be the neutral information point on the roll-out of fiberglass in Belgium. I do not know the French translation, but I know that this site exists in both languages. Of course, we are encountering a number of obstacles in the roll-out of all these ambitions. For example, authorisation procedures sometimes take a long time. In addition, there is absolutely a problem in finding qualified workers. That's an absolute bottleneck. We are therefore talking about highly qualified staff. Other obstacles are the obligation to roll out along with other utility work in the same street, and that it is not always easy to access the common parts of an apartment building. So there are a lot of limitations on the ground. It is therefore clear that cities and municipalities also have an important role to play in this process. Mrs Dierick, it is true that Belgium is somewhat behind on access to fiberglass. There are countries that are further away. However, there is actually a brake on the lead here. In the past, we have really taken a lead in the roll-out of high-quality cable networks. As one of the few European countries, we have already achieved one gigabit per second, which in fact means that we are also covered by the European definition of 'fast Internet connections and telecom networks'. Proximus, for example, has systematically modernised its copper network. As a result, 97% of households already have access to fast internet. Perhaps in recent years the incentive for operators has been somewhat smaller to take the step towards fiber, which is of course the next evolution in fixed networks. To sum up, I think we can say that there is a lot going on in the telecoms market. Here too, we can maintain and strengthen our European leadership if we all work together in the coming years to achieve our connectivity objectives, which Europe also sets out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u13	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I share your opinion. Indeed, we already have sturdy cable connections, so we already have high quality internet. Still, fiberglass must be the next step. The ambition to do this as soon as possible must continue to be a priority. I also experience it myself: in Dendermonde, where I am ships, Proximus is now fully engaged in the roll-out of fiberglass. That's very fast. I have good hopes that this will happen elsewhere as well. It is very important that we can maintain the European position we have in this area and perhaps even step up a little. That's gonna be a great challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u14	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. In the example I gave, even two competing private companies admit that the principle of a single network is much more cost-effective, in any case for consumers. A single public service would be more advantageous for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u15	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate you on having a baby, Digi Communications and Citymesh. Since that news only came out yesterday, we have not yet been able to ask any questions about it. I hope that we can have a debate very quickly on the new, fourth telecom operator. My question today is about maintaining the e-mail addresses. As you know, I tabled a legislative proposal on this at the time, and you were kind enough to take over that part of your bill, for which I thank you. I think the consumer has gotten better and I can see that in my mailbox. Every week I get two or three e-mails from people who ask me if it is already effective and if they can switch without losing their e-mail address. I also contacted BIPT to inform them that their website had not yet been modified. The last contact was in April. They told me they were gonna change it, and they did. So that's good. The information is now correct on their website. An additional concern has been added because the text on their website says that the consumer has to take two steps himself, once at the end of the contract and again after 18 months, to keep the email address. There are, of course, a lot of people who will not think about it and those who will be told from one day to the next that their e-mail address has been stopped. That is why I would like to ask you whether it would not be better and more logical if the operators themselves were to ask the consumer the question. For example, they can warn consumers by saying that their subscription is ending and asking if they still want to use their email address. I think that was always the spirit, but maybe not the letter of the law. It is unclear to me how the BIPT reaches this conclusion. However, it may still be possible to do this and you can have it adapted to the operators to inform customers that their e-mail address is being stopped and that it is also up to the operators to inform the customers that they can take their e-mail address with them. The second question is a linked question. In the first part I ask questions about the Easy Switch program and I ask for figures. The second part contains the question of whether bringing email addresses can be added to that Easy Switch package.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u16	They are important questions on an important subject, thank you for that. I will talk first about the number of applications for an Easy Switch since 2017. These figures are also included in the statistical reports on the BIPT website. In 2020, the number of private customers using Easy Switch increased from 19.7 % to 23.4 %. In 2017, it was 17 %. That is a nice increase, which shows that the system is becoming better known, or is in any case being used. The transferability of the e-mail addresses is indeed set out in the new telecoms law. It says that the consumer has the right to retain his or her address, as well as its duration, and must be informed thereof. The user must be informed of that right at least twice: when the contract is concluded...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the termination of the contract, the law provides that the consumer can retain his email address for 18 months. Provided a fee is paid, that can be renewed. The consumer must make a request for this in the event of a change of operator. Mr Freilich, you are right that there will be no new notification after 18 months. But we've provided for two reports. If after 18 months the customer no longer takes initiative, it will indeed end. We can explicitly ask the operators to inform the customer of this. But that's not registered in the law. Secondly, can we extend Easy Switch to take the e-mail messages to a new provider? The rules governing the portability of the e-mail address are legally separate from the Easy Switch procedure. I will ask the BIPT to modify the information on the portability of the website already on the website so that the possibility to retain the mail address is also included in the FAQs about Easy Switch.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u17	Madam Secretary, you are talking about the conclusion of the contract. Do you mean to enter into the contract, or to terminate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u18	Twice: when the contract is signed and when it is terminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic830x.u19	If someone lets you know that he wants to cancel his subscription, he will be informed about that possibility. He can say he wants to bring his address, but after 18 months many people may have forgotten that they need to contact someone again. I fear that this will lead to tragedies, where people from one day to the next find that their e-mail address is no longer working. If they call the provider, they'll say, "You didn't request it again." That's asking for trouble. In a future amendment of the law, we could make it clear that the operators should also take care of this.
