ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u1	Minister, in December you announced that your initiative to provide more social protection for platform workers would be completed in February 2022. It is now February and the press is giving the impression that there is more disagreement among the Vivaldi members than there is consensus on how to deal with these workers. On 26 January, we read in the press that the liberal camp found your proposal on the presumption of pay unacceptable. What about the discussion in your government, Minister? What about the presumption of paid employment? Will that thought trail be successful? Will you come forward with a bill in the next month, as agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u2	Mr Minister, on 1 January, following the press articles on a debate which has been going on for some time now, Mr Frank Moreels, president of the BTB trade union, publicly supported your initiative to provide platform workers with better social protection. In the plenary, you had already announced that you would not want to wait for final European legislation. Although there is a proposal, there is already a desire to consider whether, in line with that European position, a rebuttable presumption of contract of employment for platform workers can be introduced, by adapting the law on employment relations. Meanwhile, in response to the VRT reportage and the VUB investigations, the Brussels Labour Auditorate has opened a series of criminal investigations into the status of undocumented couriers working with fake accounts. Apparently, on the basis of reports by local police zones, surveys have been launched so far on the employment of people without residence permits and people who were not registered with social security. This is about the most serious violation of the Social Criminal Code. The detectives think that the people who lend their names to couriers also demand about half of their income. This means an hourly rate of 2 or 2.5 euros per hour for bike couriers. Can you confirm that there are investigations into abuse through false accounts? Is there cooperation with the FPS Finance for this? It is mainly a tax regime and the tax-free border in the peer-to-peer scheme. What is the state of the government's initiative? What are her intentions in that respect? How's the meeting going? What timeline will you follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u3	Minister, my question in the actua debate is somewhat strange, but it is what it is. During the budget negotiations at the end of last year it was agreed to find a solution in the case of evening work between 20 and 24 hours in the short term, read to ease the rules. Advice would be sought from the social partners. Last week, apparently, this opinion was still not requested, while it is one of the crucial issues to boost employment in Belgium, including in e-commerce. There are a lot of jobs here, including for low-skilled workers, vulnerable people in our labour market. In addition, this can also help to increase the efficacy rate towards 80%. Now I understand from your party's communication yesterday that you want to return to an economy with horse and cart. If that is not the case, I would like to hear it from you later, because that was the impression you and your party gave yesterday. We also read in the newspapers that you want to link the file to a number of other files, such as that of the platform economy. A draft law laying down various provisions on work is therefore being prepared. However, the issue of evening work for e-commerce, but also of course for other sectors, is at risk of being delayed. That can't be the intention. Why did you not honour the agreement reached during the budget negotiations? Why didn't you even seek advice on evening work from the social partners? Is it true that you want to link the file to a number of other files, possibly under a bill containing various provisions? If so, can you explain which topics would be covered in such a draft law containing various provisions? As far as I understand, the social partners have not yet been consulted on this issue either. What timetable do you intend to bring that bill to the Chamber? The last question is also the most obvious. What will you do if the social partners cannot reach a unanimous opinion on your possible draft law?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u4	Mr. Secretary, you want to take a legislative initiative to regulate the status of platform workers. To collect testimonies and proposals from the site, the website platformwerk.be was created. Based on the initial contributions and testimonies on that website, you also made a proposal to the government for a settlement of the platform work. I would also refer to your reply to my oral question at the committee meeting on 25 January. First, how many reactions were collected on platformwork.be? Is the website being maintained now that the discussion has already been brought to the government table? It is reported that there is certainly no demand on the ground for a general application of the workers' statute for, for example, bicycle couriers. Is that correct and is that also apparent from the survey? The website would cover the most diverse platforms, ranging from bicycle couriers like Deliveroo and Uber Eats, to handymen who can be booked for a job via Ring Twice. Do you want the same legal framework for those very different situations? Where are the discussions on the status of platform workers at European level? Has our country determined its position yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u5	Minister, I have asked you several times on the subject of the platform economy. Given the size of the economy, there is a need to better regulate working conditions and, in particular, legal uncertainty, financial instability and the many risks of uncovered accidents, which are the factors that keep people already fragile in a precarious situation. In order to move forward on this issue, you took the initiative to launch, a few months ago, an online consultation of all the players in the platform economy. Workers, restorers, platform managers, etc., all are asked to give their opinion on the sector. You announced that you wanted to use the information gathered to evaluate the law on the nature of labour relations and, ultimately, to adapt it. Minister, what is your assessment of this online consultation today? How many people have participated in the study so far? Who are the participants? Have you ever been able to identify some ways to improve the condition of platform workers? What follow-up are you planning on this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u6	Colleagues, thank you for your many questions on this important topic concerning platform workers. In my view, the protection of platform workers is a matter of great importance. In fact, they are often particularly vulnerable and, unfortunately, the news reminds us of it brutally. A few days ago, on 11 January 2022, in Lille, a 16-year-old with a Deliveroo bag died crushed by a truck. The victim was, however, below the legal age to be able to work through this platform. The investigation has begun and is still ongoing. A few months ago in October 2021, it was a Uber Eats scooter deliverer who lost his life, broke by a motorist, here again in Lille. A few months earlier, near Rouen, still in France, a cyclist Uber Eats had also lost his life in a road accident. In March 2021, a scooter deliverer had been killed in an accident in Villeurbanne and I could unfortunately quote a series of others. In addition to these tragic events in France, there are also dozens of more or less serious accidents, including in Belgium. In 2017, according to figures from Smart, these couriers were at 15 times more risk of an accident than in other jobs. One of the reasons for this is the pressure of the algorithm. One has to go faster and faster to buy time and make more and more deliveries to make a little more money. Risk management and prevention are rarely taken into account. If an accident occurs, workers are not always covered by social security, but rely on private insurance with uncertain coverage. In addition, there is a major problem with hiding accounts. In the event of an accident, workers are simply made invisible. Yet these workers are just as visible as we see more and more of them pop up. During the current corona crisis, many have worked twice as hard to support the catering industry and to provide home meals. The platform economy is a large sector, which is still growing steadily. There are also different types of platforms and the issue must therefore be approached with caution. That is why, together with my colleagues Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, I have set up a broad survey through the website platformwork.be. At the time of the last census, there were 78 testimonies and 30 proposals in the 4 specific themes on-line. In addition, 195 different profiles were created on the website. Analysis of the various contributions is still under way. In the course of 2021, we also sought the views of the social partners on this issue. The office of the National Labour Council recently told me that the discussions are complex and that the social partners are interested in knowing the government's intentions in this area before they can give an opinion. On the part of the independents, the INASTI General Management Committee recently delivered its opinion. Like other themes, this is part of the government's reboot and transition plan. As you know, discussions are underway within the government to fully translate the working chapter of this plan into a draft bill with various provisions. This concerns provisions on better reconciliation between private and professional life, the issue of evening work in e-commerce, the question of the individual right to training or measures to combat shortages in certain sectors. It is always difficult to commit to a precise timing, but our ambition is that a decision can be taken on the whole in the next few days or even in the course of next week. I am confident that we can achieve this, but, I repeat, the will is to address all the labour market issues, including the various points I have just mentioned, in a comprehensive bill with various labour provisions. As the law provides, in accordance with social consultation, the whole of this draft law will be submitted to the social partners for their opinion. If the social partners issue a divided opinion on either side, as always, it will be up to the government to take a position. I can of course reassure you that no file of the restart and transition plan is in the fridge and that the work is going on actively. As far as your question about a presumption of wage earners is concerned, of course, this is a case in point. It is also included in the European Commission's proposal on platform workers. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a presumption does not always offer full legal certainty to the main parties concerned. Indeed, as you know, a recent judgment of the Brussels Labour Court found that, although a presumption existed for some platform workers, it was reversed, so that workers could be regarded as self-employed. As you also know, an appeal of this decision is pending. But in the course of our work, we have agreed to take account of international case law as well as Belgian case law. At the same time, as you also know, work is also continuing at European level, which I welcome. We are still in the first phase of drawing up a draft directive. The various Member States therefore ask their different questions about the proposal which has been formulated and submitted by the European Commission. Belgium's position will be determined once the various necessary information has been provided. Mrs Vanrobaeys, on fraud, I can assure you that, together with my colleagues Vandenbroucke and Clarinval, I am determined to combat fraud in the platform sector. I am convinced that my colleague, the Minister for Finance, is paying attention to tax fraud. In addition, joint actions on the platform economy are included in the annual plan to combat social and tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u7	Mr Minister, at the beginning of your reply you spoke about the safety of these workers, which is, of course, very important. When we talk about safety and a safety net for these workers, it is clear that this can only be solved by hiring them as an employed person, because then they have social protection, especially against the accidents at work that we are talking about here. For us, platform workers must be employees, with real social protection and not just a few patchwork, with minimum wage and access to the various social rights. This also prevents these workers from having to initiate lengthy legal proceedings, with all the risks involved, such as exclusion from the platform. Moreover, that is once again proof of the subordinate relationship of the couriers to the platforms. That is why we are calling for the presumption of pay to be introduced and not for the liberals to impose their views on this issue, which happened in cases such as the wage margin. We ask you not to succumb to the pressure exerted by multinationals such as Deliveroo and Uber. It is not up to them to dictate our social legislation. It is up to the politicians to ensure compliance with these multinationals. Finally, I would like to ask you to address the other aspects of the platform economy vigorously and also to ensure transparency of the algorithms, which you also mentioned. In addition, fair redistribution of the profits of these multinationals and fair payment of taxes must also be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u8	Minister, we are talking about platforms here, but for e-commerce we are talking about the same principle. We must ensure that the digitisation, which we can embrace as progress, does not lead to nineteenth-century working conditions. This requires a good framework. For the platform economy, it was good that you brought up safety. At the moment there are indeed bike couriers for an apple and an egg unprotected around with meals. I have tabled a bill with Mrs Thémont on a rebuttable presumption of employee participation. Of course, that can be refuted. This suspicion must be dealt with with with caution. Platform work is more than bike couriers. That certainly needs to be looked at in a nuanced manner. However, they must at least be able to count on protection like all other workers. I would like to hear you say that they should actually be self-employed. I watched Anderman's cases on television yesterday, in which Kamal Kharmach advised a music store. I've looked at the way he made more profit for the little self-employed and managed to keep his head above water. I heard Kamal tell that the replacement of guitar strings should not be done for free and that 15 euros could be asked for. Replacing guitar strings is not an hour's work. However, we would have bike couriers working as self-employed workers for a wage of EUR 3 to 4 per hour. Even in that case, a self-employed person cannot survive on the basis of that income. Nor can he or she build up social protection. That is why an employee's statute is also running for office. Finally, I am very pleased to hear that fraud is now a focus of attention. Those concerned are in a precarious situation. I have already asked several questions about this to the Minister for Finance, but it remains very vague in the field of taxation. Last week I submitted an initiative to the services to increase the control of the peer-to-peer tax regime and to check the extent of the abuses and fake accounts that are rented out via night shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u9	Madam President, I would very much like to replicate the Minister's reply. However, that is particularly difficult if the Minister does not even try to give the impression that he has answered one of my six specific questions. I did not receive an answer to the six specific questions I had put in advance. I think that a very bad tendency, especially when an actua debate is used to drown a question in a collection of other questions that had little to do with my questions. Madam President, I would therefore like to ask you, in future, to monitor more closely the merging of questions into an actua debate, because if it is intended to drown questions in this way, I thank you for that. I don't think that's a serious way of working. I do not appreciate this method, Minister. You have not given an answer, nor an answer with which I can agree or disagree. I find that very regrettable. That really disappoints me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u10	Mr Minister, I hear there's an analysis of the questioning going on. You do not go into this in detail, but on the basis of your reply I would like to give you three more important elements. Firstly, we have heard from several people that they have filled in the search on the website and made suggestions. If that is representative, it has also shown that platform workers are certainly not waiting for a status of employee that will be imposed on them. They are well aware that platforms cannot survive in this way, except in the big cities of Antwerp and Brussels where they have to work several hours afterwards. Secondly, employers would like to offer protection. I am thinking, for example, of insurance against accidents for bicycle couriers. You have quoted a number of poignant examples. At the moment that is not possible because they threaten to regard their independent couriers as employees. So we have to think creatively over the bulkheads. The jobs of the 21st century no longer fit the models of the 20th. Between the platforms there is a huge diversity: think of Ring Twice, where individuals can find a handyman, or Uber or Deliveroo. It would therefore not be wise to apply the same legislation to all these situations. Here too, flexibility and creativity are needed. Minister, it is important that the benefits of this flexibility are reconciled with social protection. We are absolutely in favour of this, and we look forward to the legislative proposal in that context. With regard to the questioning, I will ask a written question so that we can receive all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u11	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers, it is true that at the beginning you addressed the safety aspect of the workers and you gave a lot of examples of the various accidents that occur around the platform economy. It can be seen that all these workers are not subject to social security and therefore do not enjoy any protection in this regard. You know that I have tabled a text since I have been advocating for several months now for the establishment of an employee status that will be able to give them all the social protection they deserve – in any case, I think so. It is also not acceptable for large companies to make a profit on the back of workers' safety. One of my questions was about the consultation you launched. I hear that you have obtained different testimonies – 78, with 195 different profiles if I have heard correctly – and that the analysis is under way. I look forward to obtaining the results of this study very quickly. I hear you have the ambition to get on with a whole bill on this work bill in the coming weeks. I look forward to the results, hoping that we can offer real rights and real security to all these workers in the platform economy and, above all, a decent wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for showing such unanimity. Something has to change, it's obvious. After each scandal, a new announcement of measures will follow, preferably added to some major agreement. This time the announcement will be linked to the further discussion of Friday or perhaps next week. The announcement was already torpedoed by your liberal coalition partner. The discussion yesterday was even more affected by the sharp and insane statements made by your party chairman on e-commerce. When I hear the statements made by the various party chairmen of this government, I feel I am back in the first purple-green government, almost 20 years ago. As we all know, that fur and blue has ended, which is perhaps also the vision of the future of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u13	Minister, I was pleased that, in your response, you spoke about security and consultation. As far as platform safety is concerned, as has often been mentioned in this committee, accidents are important. It is therefore appropriate to provide answers to this precarious situation of workers. Status is one of the solutions to this problem. As you said, there is a debate about whether the status could not be re-qualified as independent. From this perspective, the terms of the projects you will be presenting should be "calibrated" in order to ensure all the necessary stability, while at the same time ensuring some flexibility, in accordance with the demand of the workers. But the presumption of wage-earning is an excellent thing, and we encourage you to do so. As far as consultation is concerned, the National Labour Council wishes to know your intentions with regard to your draft law, in which it will be consulted, which is obviously an excellent thing. When you introduced your policy note, I asked you about the number of people who participated in the consultation. It was then 11 people. We are now talking about 195 people, which is already much better. But of course, this does not allow the whole sector to be swept away. I therefore invite you to keep your ears open and to meet the workers. Indeed, the necessary respect for them can also be offered in another way. The subject was discussed in the context of e-commerce. When companies mistreat their workers, it must be no way. Night work is not necessarily our priority option. We must be able to find a way of working for companies, with respected and well-treated workers. In any case, it is in this direction that we encourage you to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u14	Madam President, Minister, my question dates from some time ago, but is still topical. Companies that were able to continue to work in full force during the covid crisis and have achieved good results are given the opportunity to thank their employees through a so-called corona premium, a consumer cheque of up to 500 euros. The definition of 'good results' should be defined by sector. A number of sectors provide for the compulsory payment of a corona premium subject to certain conditions. In the other sectors, the premium can be paid on a voluntary basis. The freedom given by the government to the sectors has created a great diversity in the size of the amounts and the conditions for granting the bonus. Do you think it is right that different amounts have been allocated? Not only the employees of the companies that have achieved good results have made additional efforts. The workers of the companies which have done less well and who have been temporarily unemployed have also made an effort, but they are not reimbursed. Don't you think the corona premium is divisive? The social negotiations started rather slowly last year and not all sectoral agreements have already been concluded. Are you planning an extension of the grant period or will 31 March be retained as the final date for payment of the premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, the design of the corona premium was from the outset to give the necessary autonomy to the social partners and the social dialogue to fill this out specifically for the sector or to look at it at company level. The proposed diversity is therefore a result of the formulated design. Of course, employees in other companies and sectors have also made efforts, but this was ultimately the agreed framework between the government and the interprofessional social partners. As you know, last year a KB was assumed to allow the payment of the corona premium until 31 March 2022. However, the right should be granted by 31 December 2021 at the latest, for example by means of a sectoral collective agreement. In many sectors such collective agreements were concluded before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems positive that 1 in 3 employees have obtained a premium, but the reality is that 2 in 3 have not received it, and that is still a much larger group. From the outset it was clear that the premium was a half-hearted agreement between the government and the employers. In the final analysis, no one is really satisfied except the workers from some sectors where, rightly, they have been generous. We have warned about it before, and it was true: strong sectors are making much faster progress than other sectors such as the non-profit sector, where wages are generally already much lower. This only widens the gap in wages, which is compounded by galloping inflation and wage indexation. The composition of the health index increases wages much less than the actual increase in necessary resources such as energy, the main engine of inflation that we now know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u17	Madam President, Minister, in the face of the difficulties of the crisis, it has been decided to relax student work to help businesses. The working hours quota has been increased and neutralised to meet the need for labour in certain sectors. Thus, in the summer of 2021, record levels of student labour were reached. In the third quarter of last year, nearly 477,000 young people had at least one student job, 2.5% more than in 2019. Flexi-jobs also experienced a sharp increase during the same period, with an 89% increase in more active employees via flexi-jobs compared to the second quarter of 2019. Mr Minister, while a flexible workforce is certainly practical for companies, it is also crucial to ensure that the increase in the number of these contracts does not lead to a deterioration in the working conditions of student and flexi-job workers. Have your inspection services paid particular attention to respecting the labour law applicable to these two types of contracts during the crisis? Have any irregularities been found? How do you plan to put barriers in place so that these types of precarious contracts do not become the norm in post-covid?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u18	Madam President, Minister, student and flexi jobs are more popular than ever. Never have so many student jobs and flexi jobs been registered as today and the number of hours worked below that statute continues to increase. It goes without saying that working conditions must be respected and undeclared work cannot be dealt with. I do not understand the causal link suggested by the previous speaker between more contracts and more abuse when it comes to working conditions, for example. In my opinion, a performance check can make that work in a healthy way. The growing popularity of student and flexi jobs shows above all that we need more flexibility in our labour market. Flexibility is useful not only for employers, but also for employees, whether they are students or flexi-jobers. This flexibility is a two-sided knife, but it is a two-sided medal that can bring benefits for both employers and employees. The notion of more flexibility is clearly demonstrated by the popularity of student and flexi jobs. More flexibility in the labour market, with respect for working conditions, is, in my view, the only way to ensure economic growth and prosperity in this country. What concrete measures will you take to ensure greater flexibility in our labour market? What is the timing of these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, I pay particular attention to the different forms of contract in our labour market and its impact on social security, income and job security. Work contracts for students and flexi-jobs are secondary activities and should remain so. Therefore, student work is subject to a quota of hours and to flexi-jobs conditions such as four fifths of work. In order to cope with the effects of the corona crisis, derogations are provided for for student labour. These are temporary derogations, which have been discussed with the social partners. So they are not supposed to survive after the crisis. That is why there are safeguards in place that will be maintained. Mr Anseuw, we do not intend to expand flexi-jobs and student labour without the agreement of the social partners. Mrs Vanrobaeys, unfortunately it was not possible to collect the figures on student labour within the time limit. So I can neither confirm nor deny the trend. I suggest that you ask a written question so that I can provide you with a relevant analysis of the situation. As far as the Labour Inspectorate figures are concerned, systematic, specific checks are, of course, carried out in the event of a complaint or suspicion of fraud. For students' work, in 2021, the Control of Social Laws controlled students in 1,441 investigation files. In 705 of these investigations, one or more offences were or were found; 478 offences gave rise to a warning, 653 regularization and 396 pro justicia. Infringements mainly concern the correct payment of wages, compliance with the rules on working time, the student contract itself, compliance with the Dimona obligation and, finally, compliance with the measures of protection against covid-19. In the case of flexi-jobs, in 2021, Social Law Control found offences in 16 investigations: 7 offences gave rise to a warning, 3 to regularization and 6 to a pro-justicia. I would point out that, in addition to carrying out the usual tasks, all inspection services have been particularly involved in monitoring compliance with the preventive measures related to covid-19. Finally, with regard to Mr Anseew's last question, I refer to what I have already said. All the measures concerning the reform of the labour market (conciliation of private life - working life, flexibility, e-commerce, platform workers, fight against jobs in need) are the subject of exchanges within the government concerning the law on various provisions relating to work. As I have told you, I hope that an agreement can be reached very soon within the government so that we can both question the social partners and come to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive response that I am satisfied with. I would like to stress, as you have pointed out, the need to maintain a framework for these flexible contracts and to ensure that derogations remain temporary and only during this period. With regard to controls, I note that controls and inspections are systematic and that there have been many checks and records, since for 2021 you have given me a figure of 1,441 checks with 478 infringements. This is the same for flexi-jobs with somewhat smaller numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u21	Mr Secretary, I apologize for my questions. I should have taken into account that I want to go far too fast, and indeed the government has only been working for a year and a half. One and a half years is far too short for us to take one activating measure for our labour market policy. So I would like to apologize for asking what you are going to do in concrete terms one and a half years after the government takes office. So you are still unable to answer that today, and you are keen that an agreement should be reached within a few weeks, or even within a few days. But even that doesn't inspire confidence. Not in terms of timing, but if this government makes an agreement, it is always more likely that it will not be implemented. I refer to the agreement on night work concluded last year. In the meantime, nothing has been done about it. It's all starting to get a little painful, Minister. After one and a half years of Vivaldi government, there is still no labour market policy. You may not mind that everything stays the same, but I ask how your coalition partners, in particular CD&V and Open Vld, are opposed to that. They have been making that happen for a year and a half, and maybe it will continue until the next election. This is particularly painful for the prosperity of this country, for the people who make the most of it every day in their work or business. You abandon people and society by sitting still for so long. That's pretty special, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u22	Mr Minister, I will start by asking for additional figures by means of a written question. I have heard from you that this is a side business and that you wish to keep it that way. Remarkable in this respect is that Randstad indicates by 2020 that many more students worked during the year and week. It is quite possible that this meets a demand and a need because of the students. My son attends an IT programme and was given a job search for a student job as an IT technician to work three days a week for six months during weekdays, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. each. Impossible to combine with the lessons and practicals he has to follow those hours. The system must not lead to the withdrawal of oneself from the market and, once graduated, to the rapid replacement of oneself by cheaper students. That's no longer about student work. The same applies to the so-called flexi-jobs. Carrefour stores open the doors on Sundays, and pressure the staff to work four fifths, supplemented by a flexi job, or they don't have to come anymore. Those are stories I take care of here and there. Flexibility can, of course, be for the benefit of the employee. Students should be able to earn a penny, but well framed. Once they have the diploma, they must still have a well-paid job and perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u23	Mr Minister, as you know, there is little mobility of workers between Wallonia and Flanders and between Brussels and the other two regions. A study in October 2021 by IESEG School of Management (Paris and Lille) by Professor Eric Dor shows that the share of workers living in Wallonia who have their jobs in Flanders is on a downward trend. In 2009, this share was 3.26%, compared to 3.11% today. On the other hand, the share of workers residing in Flanders who are employed in Wallonia has increased very slightly as it was 0.9% in 2009 and is now 0.98%. Greater mobility of workers between the different regions of the country would benefit everyone and encouraging it is an important political priority in our view. Moreover, in the current context where many sectors and employers are experiencing labour shortages, there is also a time to step up this action. Mr Minister, you have already expressed ambitious intentions in this area, in particular through your general policy note, and I would like to take stock of a number of measures put forward. What is the status of the inter-federal platform that takes up the jobs available in the different regions? Is it already functional? Can we have a presentation? Is the measure granting 25% of their unemployment benefit for three months to long-term jobseekers who start working in another Region already applicable? When can we get its first results? Are there any other actions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u24	Dear colleague, after different contacts between the different levels of power, the inter-federal platform is about to be launched. It will consist of the Federal, Regional and Community administrations with expertise in labour, employment and training policy, namely the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation SPF, ONEM, VDAB, FOREM, Actiris, ADG and Brussels Training. Depending on the topics on the agenda, this platform may invite other discussion partners such as ONSS, SPF Social Security or the General Administration of Education. The inter-federal platform will have the mandate to promote the fight against jobs in short supply and the mobility of workers between Regions and Communities. To this end, it will be responsible for analysing the technical and institutional feasibility of the various proposals formulated at the political level and, where appropriate, preparing for their implementation. It will also be required to advise and make recommendations with a view to promoting the mobility of workers between regions and employment areas within the same region and to combating jobs in need. This platform will meet as much as necessary with a minimum of once a month. The measure to grant long-term jobseekers starting to work in another Region, 25% of their unemployment benefit for three months, has not yet entered into force and is subject to some adjustments. It will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u25	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. It seems to me that this platform, as far as its actors are concerned, will be particularly useful in order to have a complete vision of both the basins and the different regions. It is a subject that we are being asked to discuss, and it is also a personal one. The subject is not new; it has been discussed for a long time. A little over two weeks ago, with the Climate Commission, we found ourselves at the port of Antwerp and there, for example, the main message of the entrepreneurs present who welcomed us to introduce us to the activities of the port was to say that they do not find a workforce. As Brussels, I am interested in the fact that all regions of the country are working together and, unlike other colleagues, we think that the more we stand together, the stronger we are. I thought we were 45 minutes away from Brussels, for example – but it could be from other corners. How is it that there are no more opportunities to have young Brusselsers or Brusselsers in Antwerp? There were no direct answers. I think this platform is essential because there is a need, there is a demand and I think there is a real complementarity between our different regions and between our different needs. We will therefore follow this matter carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u26	Question No 55024662C by Mr Gaby Colebunders is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u27	Recently we read the sad news that the work auditorate started an investigation into a case of extreme harassment. I call it even violence by a team boss against a very young victim at BASF in Antwerp. In the meantime, the unsub was fired for urgent reasons. The company will also, together with the trade unions, analyse the events and evaluate and adjust its prevention policy to avoid such occurrences. Following the incident, the ABVV called for greater awareness of the role of the trusted person. In some cases, first mention must be made to the direct superior. By the way, the direct superior in the case cited was also the perpetrator. In any case, a victim must know very well where to go. Today, 7% of workers are victims of cross-border behaviour. I understand that you cannot intervene in the BASF file, since the work audit centre has started an investigation, but are you aware of it? According to IDEWE, reports of bullying are increasing every year, even now that everyone is obliged to telework. IDEWE concludes that harassment at work needs to be tackled in a structural manner. Can you confirm the numbers? Are there any other figures? Are there any sectors that jump out? Is there a difference according to sex, age and seniority? Are there any lines on which the policy could be refined? The government agreement stated that social and economic monitoring in the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic would also focus on well-being at work. The High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work would evaluate working conditions in the sectors and services. Is that what happened? Sometimes bullying can also be associated with workload and stress. Is bullying included in that analysis? If so, what are the results and conclusions? What initiatives will you take to prevent bullying at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u28	Like you, I've taken note of the facts about which the media reported. I can inform you that the Labour Auditorate of Antwerp has ordered the regional department of the Welfare Inspectorate at Work to carry out an investigation. Given the secrecy of the judicial investigation, I cannot provide you with any information on this matter. Co-Prev, the umbrella organisation of all external services for prevention and protection at work, announced in a press release that all external services together dealt with nearly 15,000 cases of psychosocial issues in 2020. This is a decrease of 2.12% compared to 2019. The decrease is due, among other things, to the corona effect. In 2020, the majority of psychosocial files dealt with conflict situations of approximately 34%, followed by harassment with 16% and stress and burn-out-related problems of 21%. Analysis of the handling of the psychosocial risk files shows that 90% is treated informally. Together with my administration, I focus on mental well-being at work. For example, a federal mental welfare plan is being set up, together with other relevant ministers, with the social partners, including at the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. As part of that plan, the large-scale media awareness campaign launched in November 2021 will continue this year. In addition, sectoral primary prevention projects will receive grants in 2022 and 2023 in order to pay more attention to specific mental risks in various sectors particularly affected by the pandemic. I therefore support any sectoral agreement to reduce the workload. In the actions on psychosocial risks, specific attention will be paid to that group. My administration is also following very closely how the legislation introduced in 2014 is applied in practice in relation to psychosocial risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I certainly welcome the fact that you are working on the psychosocial well-being of workers, including through preventive measures. Indeed, it is important to avoid escalation, as recently in Antwerp. I hope no one should be victimized by that. Preventive action is therefore very good. You continue to raise awareness. In this context, I would like to make two more points. First of all, I would like to mention the ratification of ILO Convention 190 on harassment and violence at work. You have done your job in this respect, but that is not the case with the Foreign Office for the moment. Perhaps you could urge your fellow Minister so that we do not lag behind other countries in this treaty, but take the lead again. Second, I mention the STIP IT action that will start again next week at Ketnet. This year's action against bullying, which is mainly aimed at children and young people, also focuses on adults and bullying at work. You are committed to raising awareness. Since STEP IT is a well-known action in Flanders, you may be able to work together. That can work for threshold lowering. In this way we can make clear to whom workers can all turn, if they are victims of harassment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u30	Minister, an agreement was reached in July 2018 after long negotiations at the National Labour Council (NAC) to limit successive day contracts. A number of agreements have been made on this subject, but I saw that both in 2019 and in 2020, I requested the figures, and the objectives that the social partners had set themselves were absolutely not met. Meanwhile, the government agreement provides that improper and excessive use of successive daily contracts will be combated, together with the social partners. Negotiations were launched in the NAR to reduce the number of day contracts. They were shut down and restarted in the autumn of 2021. So that goes with falling and getting up. Meanwhile, a whole pack of people waits every day for a redeeming text. Do you have any idea of the further progress of the negotiations? From when can we expect a solution to the problem of the improper and excessive use of successive day contracts? If the negotiations do not lead to any results, what steps will you take to implement the coalition agreement in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u31	Mrs Vanrobaeys, thank you for your question. On 24 July 2018, representatives of employers and employees in the NAR indeed reached an agreement on the use of successive day contracts. In that agreement, the social partners undertook to reduce the size of that practice by at least 20% in 2018 and 2019. Unfortunately, this objective has not been achieved. Following the failure to achieve the objective, discussions were launched by the social partners in 2020 with a view to achieving more binding measures. As you know, I have asked the social partners to make this dossier a priority. Together with you, I note that since your previous question of 10 months ago, there has been no agreement within the NAR on urgent measures. The government has committed itself to fighting, together with the social partners, the abuses and excessive use of successive day contracts. Especially in view of the tight labour market, employers should understand that such day-to-day contracts are difficult to attract new workers. More than ever, it is now the time to conclude an agreement on this. I hope that the social partners will present me with a proposal in the very near future so that excesses can be put to an end. You won't be surprised that I don't intend to wait much longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u32	Minister, it is true that there is a shortage of labour. The abuse of these successive daily contracts, however, causes these people's lives to stand still. Sometimes they are 10, 15 or even 20 years stuck in such a precarious statute. You don't get a loan for a house, you just can't move on with your life. There is no future for these young people. So that really needs to be addressed. It is good that you prefer a solution supported by the social partners. However, they have been going on for a long time. Now it's time to cut the buttons. It is a good thing that you want to go ahead and implement the coalition agreement if necessary. On the eve of 1 May, I asked you for figures on the increase or decrease. I also insisted in plenary that a solution should be found. In the meantime, it's already February. Changing a law takes some time, but I hope, at least on the eve of 1 May, that I will be able to tell all those people with a day's contract that we have dealt with it, that the abuse is over and that the excessive use of day's contracts is over. From now on, you will receive a fixed contract and good occupational accident protection after two months. So after those two months, you can take your life further into your hands and build it up. I think this would be a good message.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u33	Minister, the social partners have requested that the periods of temporary unemployment be equalized for this year's holiday allowance. What do you intend to do? Can you guarantee that this equality will be achieved soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u34	Mr Colebunders, in order to guarantee workers' holiday allowances, I have asked the government to equalize temporary unemployment for the calculation of annual holiday allowances in 2020 and 2021. When extending temporary unemployment in the first quarter of 2022, the social partners called for an equalisation for this year. I am, of course, in favour of that. However, before a decision is taken, the consequences and possibilities must be analysed. For example, the National Agency for Annual Holidays (RJV) has exhausted its reserves completely in previous comparisons. A new equivalence without adequate funding therefore puts the RJV at risk, with the result that workers' holiday allowances may no longer be paid. This situation must, of course, be avoided at all costs. That is why I will seek solutions with the social partners as soon as the correct data are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u35	Minister, you must find a solution with your government to find that money. The social partners are asking for equivalence, which I think is normal, because the workers in question are not responsible for this. So I hope that we do not create a scenario like in the last two years, when people were always in uncertainty. We are already facing a health crisis and rising prices, and many of those people are already waiting for their holiday money to pay certain bills. If that uncertainty about the holiday money continues because the money is in that greenhouse, then we urgently need to talk to your colleagues in the government to get that cash back in quick food. If you want any ideas, I'd be happy to email you through.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u36	Mr Minister, at first glance my question may seem more rhetorical in nature, but it is not really. More than half of the companies are understaffed. Our economy craves a boost after years of corona crisis and restrictive corona measures. Instead of making an economic recovery and tackling labour shortages, however, you give priority to introducing more rules and obligations. I even hear colleagues from the majority asking questions with critical undertones and saying that things are not moving fast enough. In this context, you announced a corporate coronabarometer, similar to the barometer for education and events. Those are choices you make. What do you want to put your energy into? I think you need to put more energy into economic recovery and less into corona rules that need to be questioned out loud, especially because companies are getting harder and harder to carry out their work properly and get organized. Minister, how much energy do you want to put into imposing restrictive corona measures on our companies instead of focusing on the relic and recovery of the economic fabric?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u37	Mr Anseuw, with regard to the barometer, you are overlooking an important aspect, particularly the social dialogue. This barometer was prepared by the representatives of the employers and employees of the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. The basis for this is the generic guide already drawn up in April 2020 to keep the companies open and maintain business continuity during the corona crisis. I am very grateful to the social partners for taking up this task with such seriousness and commitment. For example, they have ensured that the transmission of virus at workplaces is kept to a minimum. In addition, last week, we discussed legislative proposals in this committee on temporary measures to support companies in the context of the omikron variant. These measures have also taken account of the social dialogue held in the Group of Ten. The result was approved by the employers and two trade unions. The priority of the government and the social partners is first and foremost to ensure the health of workers. We're not done with the virus yet, and it's important to stay careful, just to ensure business continuity. However, if the epidemic situation permits, the rules will be relaxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u38	Minister, you gave a very detailed explanation, mainly to indicate that you want to take as little responsibility as possible on this matter, while employers and employees must develop a framework within the strict provisions imposed on them by the government. You are one of the representatives of the government, as Deputy Prime Minister of this federal government, even a fairly prominent one. So I was actually disappointed by your answer. You clearly indicated that the relance is clearly not a priority for you. You say that we must impose all restrictive measures to ensure business continuity. Minister, I do not know which planet you are from, but I find every day that all these entrepreneurs are coming to tell me that the rules are precisely ensuring that the continuity of their operations is compromised. That has not only been the case for the last few days or weeks, this has been going on for months and it is not changing. Really hopeful is not your answer. You say "if the numbers fall," but they do nothing but fall. The validity of all these measures must be questioned out loud. I had hoped that the Minister for Economics and Labour would be the first to question some of these issues in order to safeguard the economy and prosperity in this country. Apparently, that was vain hope. You are doing the opposite, and you are bowing to the dictates of the corona measures whose social costs I believe have long exceeded the social benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u39	Minister, a few months ago, I drew your attention to the issue of sexism at work. A JUMP survey among Belgian and French women highlighted the fact that 94% of them reported having experienced sexism in the professional setting, and that 80% of them had not had the courage to report the facts. When I asked you about this, you informed me that the process of ratification of ILO Convention No. 190 was under way, and that it was aimed at preventing and eliminating abusive behaviour of violence and harassment in the workplace. You also informed me of your wish to launch with the social partners specific awareness-raising work on the topic of sexism at work. Minister, could you take stock of the latest developments in the fight against sexism at work? What is the status of ratification of the ILO Convention? Have there been any avenues for action by the social partners to put an end to such degrading behaviour for women?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u40	Mrs Thémont, concerning the state of progress in the ratification procedure of Convention No. 190, the consent file was sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the federal level. The Assemblies of the Regions and the Communities must also give their assent to Convention 190, which is a mixed treaty, as you know. I hope that this will be the case as soon as possible. It is important to be able to send this signal and message to our ILO partners. The tools to combat sexual harassment at work are contained in the Law on Well-Being at Work and I am convinced that further awareness-raising work is needed so that each victim can effectively assert his or her rights in the event of sexual harassment at the workplace and that each victim can use the tools contained in the Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u41	Mr Minister, we know that it is women who still suffer a lot of discrimination at work today. I do find that within companies, a certain degree of domination is still fuelled and inequality is maintained. We are not going to go back to the issue of pay, promotion or women in the workplace. I hear your answers, and I'm satisfied with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u42	Madam President, Minister, some airline companies whose Ryanair uses a very challenging practice of offering flight seekers to complete the flight hours they have to complete in order to obtain their licence, on a fee-for-charge basis. This is the system called "pay-to-fly". The Irish company Ryanair would thus encourage pilot applicants to enrol in training programmes in Boxes. For the €6,000 prize, Ryanair, through several partners, offers pilots the opportunity to complete their training and to unlock their professional pilot licence. Ryanair therefore used these young graduates to provide flights available during the pandemic, while its own employees remained at home. Some were paid by covid unemployment, and many of them needed to fly to validate their license. The "pay-to-fly" is a practice that really raises questions because it legitimizes the deterioration of the conditions of use of pilots, under the pretext of helping them to increase their flight hours, but even more serious, it draws the quality requirements of pilots down by enabling them to propel to the controls of aircraft filled with passengers pilots whose experience does not exceed 90 hours of flight time. This raises real questions about aviation safety. I also wonder about the legality of the concomitant use of this system and of temporary unemployment. Minister, what is your opinion on the practice of paying-to-fly? Is it acceptable to you? What is the impact on the working conditions of pilots? Minister Gilkinet, whom I interviewed, said that at the national level, analytical work will be undertaken to assess how to change the legal framework to prohibit these practices and protect all workers. But in this case it is a skill that you share. What are your ambitions in this regard? Are you considering banning "pay-to-fly"? Finally, is it legal to accumulate covid unemployment and this "pay-to-fly" system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u43	Mrs Cornet, as my colleague Georges Gilkinet has pointed out, I am also of the opinion that the "pay-to-fly" requires an in-depth study and analysis in our country, on the one hand, of the extent to which this practice applies to pilots who have their place of employment in Belgium and, on the other hand, of whether flights intended to obtain certain licences to continue flying a specific aircraft are also covered by this concept. As far as the cost of training is concerned, the rule is that when an employer is obliged by law to provide training to its employees under a collective labour agreement or other regulation, it cannot recover the costs of training from its employees, although there are contractual clauses under which the costs of training can be recovered if the employee leaves the company prematurely. As regards the temporary unemployment of permanent pilots, whose work is taken over by the pilots in training, know that the ONEM, when assessing the situation, takes into account all the specific circumstances of the undertaking or sector in question, in particular if a sector is or has been severely affected by the health crisis. Thus, in the aviation sector, it may be justified, in particular in order to be able to provide in the short or medium term qualified personnel in the event of an increase in the volume of work, to temporarily put out of work experienced permanent pilots in order to give priority to training staff. This organisation of the company's work must of course be carried out in compliance with all the safety conditions for passengers. I would point out, for all useful purposes, that such an assessment of the situation by the ONEM cannot under any circumstances be made if the employer has created such an organization of work on purpose. Indeed, if the employer's actions are to replace existing staff with training staff, this is indeed an abuse. Finally, you should be aware that this situation in no way affects the individual rights of the worker if the worker considers himself injured. It can therefore use my services and/or labour courts to ensure that labour law is effectively enforced and respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. You know as I do that it is not enough to recall the rule in the case of a company like Ryanair. We have already talked about this on many occasions, especially at the time of the threats of dismissals where everything was good to put pressure on wages and working conditions, etc. It is a society which is unfortunately known to take liberties with social rules and which despises social consultation. I understood that the aim of the "pay-to-fly" system was to replace pilots with trainees. This is strictly forbidden. This useful information should be shared with stakeholders in the company. I also understand that when the employer is required to provide training, it cannot recover the costs, unless there is an exception. This trail deserves to be explored. I will join you when you consider it necessary to order an in-depth study. I invite you to dig into the question and get it to land in your agenda. It is indeed essential to offer safety guarantees in terms of the rights that apply to workers in aircraft companies and, in this case, to pilots, taking into account all the particularities of this sector. In any case, I thank you for your attention to the labour law that applies to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u45	Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about a worrying situation at ENGIE. Living in Waremme, I live near the Tihange power plant. Many of the employees of this company are therefore affected by this case. In this case, ENGIE has just unveiled its staff retention plan with a view to ensuring the continued operation of the plant until 2027. It is obviously necessary for it to function safely. While we can welcome certain guarantees given by the nuclear operator, such as the maintenance of full employment until 2027 or the assurance of being able to complete his career in the company for all employees who are over 45 years of age, another measure attracts our attention: the compensation equivalent to one year's pay for CDI workers who would agree to resign before 30 September 2026 – which some trade unionists do not fail to qualify as "prime to resignation". Indeed, such a proposal may seem attractive to some when deciding on their choice. But they might throw themselves into the wolf's mouth! A large number of notice allowances may reach an equivalent amount, but if they are seduced, they will be deprived of certain social rights granted to lay-offs – but not to resignations – such as the right to unemployment. Mr Minister, when you know how much the management of a nuclear power plant requires very high-level know-how, do you not think that encouraging voluntary departure is a risky social practice, both for workers and for the maintenance of procedures within the plants? In the event that these incentives and the announced end of nuclear power would motivate too many employees to leave the company – while, for certain functions, it is the latter who is trying to debaucher the employees so that they join the French establishments of the group – what support could the federal government offer in order to ensure that employment remains local and that the continuity of operation of the plants is guaranteed until the end, in the safety required by this type of activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u46	Mr Rigot, like you, I welcome the progress already made in the ENGIE management plan on employment guarantees until 2027 and even until the end of their careers for employees over the age of 45. Like you, I believe that the bonus proposed for resignation raises a number of questions. On the one hand, I have no doubt that the unions will ensure that they inform workers of the consequences of accepting this resignation and of this premium on their rights. On the other hand, I also understand your fears about a possible flight of qualified personnel and the maintenance of local employment. I will therefore be constantly vigilant about these various aspects with my colleagues in charge of the matter, including at regional level. I believe that we must keep in touch and exchange regularly on the evolution of the situation between the federal and the Region. More specifically, with regard to the impact of various potential departures on the safety and security of nuclear power plants until their closure, and then until dismantlement, requirements for the presence of competent personnel are imposed and monitored by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The latter falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of the Interior. I therefore invite you to question her. Also know that I will be particularly vigilant – and I have been very vigilant since the beginning of my term of office – so that we can develop within our country a line of expertise on the dismantling of power plants. Irrespective of the decisions that will be taken on the last two reactors, we know that we will have a series of reactors to dismantle in the coming years and that we can rely on expertise in the field. Indeed, today we have jobs in the sector. In addition, a number of companies, still present in our territory, have participated in the construction of these nuclear power plants and reactors. They can therefore usefully intervene in the context of dismantling. We can, on the basis of the work done, actually set up an industrial sector concerning the dismantling of power plants. This is something on which I am particularly active, in collaboration with my colleague from Energy and my colleague, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u47	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Everything is said and well said, and I have no doubt that your actions will be up to your commitments. Maintaining production until its end in safe conditions, ensuring dismantling as well, is a phase that must be kept in mind and that must be done with respect for the workers. You are right, a successful exit will be an exit that we will make in conjunction with all the living forces, also with the federated entities, in this case the Walloon Region. This must also be done with social consultation. Thank you, anyway, for your commitment. I will not fail to ask your colleague about the other aspects of this exit from nuclear power. I will be attentive with you and with all those who feel involved in a social success of this exit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u48	Minister, the Omicron variant is wreaking havoc in many areas. In construction, the rate of absence of employees continues to grow, with almost 10% of the workforce affected in some firms. Added to this, 92% of companies claim to have to deal with a delay within the expected delivery time since suppliers are also affected by Omicron. The absence of a few employees on a site may affect the entire logistical organization of the planned work. This is why many companies claim to hire the first candidates who come to their doors. However, these rapid hirings raise the question of preparing these new workers for the risks of the construction trade. Indeed, construction is by far the most risky sector in Belgium: 70% of accidents at work have resulted in temporary incapacity. The causes of these accidents are often related to the fall of the victim or to the fall of equipment, which can be limited by good training of employees in on-site safety. Minister, are you planning to carry out more inspections on site to ensure that these new employees are properly trained in the prevention of accidents at work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u49	Mrs Thémont, I share your concern and fully agree with the link that you make between good safety training and reducing the risk of accidents at work. I have asked the Occupational Well-Being Inspection (OWC) to be particularly vigilant about the issues you have rightly raised. In my policy note, I indicated that safety and health at work are key policy priorities and that the objective of preventing accidents at work is nothing less than a zero vision strategy, as provided for in the European strategic framework for safety and health at work. This is also reflected in the national action plan to improve the well-being of workers (plan 2022-2027), which I will continue to discuss and develop in collaboration with the social partners of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. In our country, a construction worker has an additional 50% risk of having an accident at work compared to the Netherlands or Great Britain, to name but a few. Compliance with the welfare legislation on construction sites must remain a top priority. It is therefore imperative to ensure that the challenge of ensuring the safety of more foreign workers on construction sites is not met by an additional risk group, that of new employees. That is why the commitment made in the Government Agreement to strengthen inspection services in accordance with the standards recommended by the ILO is so important. Let us not forget the European Parliament Resolution of 14 January 2014 on the effectiveness of labour inspections as a means of improving working conditions in Europe, which reaffirmed the crucial role of labour inspections in prevention and control. It encourages Member States to increase the staff and resources of their labour inspectorates and to achieve this objective in line with ILO recommendations. Last Friday, the Council of Ministers approved the Strategic Plan 2022-2025 to combat social fraud and social dumping, which includes the addition of a new strategic objective, namely to strive to create an inclusive labour market with safe and healthy workplaces where the well-being of workers is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am more than satisfied because you share this concern. I didn't doubt it. It is true that, at European level, our country is not among the most successful in terms of security. You mentioned in particular the Netherlands and Great Britain. It is true that construction workers are twice as likely to have an accident in these countries. Beyond the crisis, there is also a need to tackle the core of the problem, as there is a shortage of labour in the sector. That's what you do. I do not think it is either by offering trips to the acting candidates, as some agencies do, that we will solve the situation. There is a real need to address the sources of this deficit and to ensure that these workers in the construction industry are working in good working conditions. I hear you're taking care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u51	Minister, at the end of January, the bankruptcy of the Meuse and Sambre shipyard was declared. It is a shipyard located mainly in Andenne (Seilles) and Namur (Beez) and employs 63 workers and employees. This is obviously a disaster for them and their families. While the company has an honorably filled order book of 5 million, it is in the midst of difficulty. Among the reasons given for the situation is a problem of profitability in certain markets – in particular because of changes in the price of raw materials – the covid which has led to the postposition of markets and the refusal of a guarantee expressed by banks and private shareholders, as well as problems in the management of the company. The bankruptcy was therefore declared on 28 January, since no buyer could attest to sufficiently strong financial guarantees. About 20 workers have recently been rehired for a fixed or very short period of time in order to honour certain contracts, so as to allow the maintenance of a limited activity on the site. In this case, the impotence is visible. As a result, several questions arise. Minister, will you make sure that the company arrives in the hands of a serious buyer who will maintain employment and know-how in this shipyard? How can we ensure that the working conditions of workers are maintained at the time of recovery? Is an assessment of the role of banks in this social drama envisaged by your services, as some players have identified a cash flow problem (although several information still needs to be confirmed)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u52	Dear colleague, I am sure you know this company and this project, of which I have been the neighbour for some time. I was therefore able to see the work carried out on a daily basis, which we meet all over Europe, since many boats – and in particular cruise ships – were produced there on the basis of the know-how of this company and its workers. A bankruptcy is always a particularly painful epilogue for the workers and their families, and I would first of all like to express my sympathy here, as you have done yourself. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that it is not in my remit, nor in those of the SPF Emploi, moreover, to judge the seriousness, credibility or solidity of a potential successor in the event of a takeover of a company after a bankruptcy. The choice of one or more successors is now, as you know, in the hands of the trustee of the bankruptcy and, in a second stage, the court of the enterprise. The rights of workers who are taken over in the context of a transfer of a company which is carried out after bankruptcy are governed, as you know, by Chapter 3 of the Collective Labour Agreement (CCT) 32a. The acquirer may choose the workers he wishes to return to his service. It is not required to maintain the working conditions that were applicable to the former employer. He or she may conclude with the worker that he or she wishes to resume a new employment contract and may also provide for less advantageous remuneration conditions or engage him or her in another position. However, this freedom to renegotiate working conditions has two limitations: firstly, seniority and, secondly, collective working conditions. If, however, the employer wishes to change the collective conditions in force for the former employer, it must do so by common agreement, in the context of a negotiation procedure with the workers' representatives. Finally, while I share your question about the role of banks in this issue more generally, an assessment of the role of banks in this type of situation is unfortunately not foreseen at the moment. Furthermore, I would remind you that bankruptcy law as such falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice. I invite you to turn to him and also question him, because I do believe that the issues you raise are particularly relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u53	Minister, thank you. I understand that we share this impotence and, at the same time, this indignation that employment can thus disappear for a number of reasons. Of course, I understand that there is no plan to make an evaluation of the role of banks. However, when we have all the elements, perhaps it will be useful for your services to look into this. For what has happened and what is happening at the moment in Andenne and Namur is also happening in other places. In any case, I find it important to assess – and in particular within the framework of your powers as Minister of Economy – the extent to which banks have played their part in supporting cash flow – even if, I repeat, we do not have all the information at this stage. I understand that there is no guarantee regarding the maintenance of working conditions, except for seniority and what has been concluded collectively. I really hope, I hope, that the winners are not only financially sound, but also socially strong, and that they can continue to maintain employment and know-how in these communes, which need well-functioning businesses, and in an economy that needs this know-how around the river. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u54	Madam Chair, Minister, this is the fifth time I have asked you about the operation of CAPAC. The latter did a colossal job during the crisis. A very high-quality work was done by highly competent persons who examined the files submitted to them in detail to support those entitled to the allowances. They have deployed a great deal of energy. As you said on several occasions, they worked in the evening and during the weekend. I would also like to pay tribute to the quality service they have provided. Additional resources and reinforcement had been granted on the covid reserve in 2020, and extended in 2021. Strengthening the resources was an essential element for the proper functioning of this body, and therefore for the correct payment of the allowances to the beneficiaries. The situation is still often very difficult: response times are often still very long, with delays in payment of allowances of several months. I have been told of problematic or even dramatic situations, which is why I am questioning you today. Thus, for example, some are denied an allowance because the application for it would have been late, whereas the delay is the responsibility of the agency itself because of a difficulty of internal treatment. Some recipients are asked to wait for months because CAPAC does not have the means to deal with all cases quickly, given the lack of staff. Minister, can you provide an update on the situation of CAPAC? On average, how many cases have been processed per month since September 2021? How many cases are still pending? Do you have any feedback regarding the exhaustion of CAPAC workers? Are you aware of any requests for reinforcement from the organization? Has the Covid Reserve been used to strengthen CAPAC teams since September 2021? When and for what amounts? How many full-time equivalents were hired?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u55	Mrs Cornet, thank you for your questions, and especially for your consideration of the work done by the agents of the Auxiliary Unemployment Benefits Fund (CAPAC), whether at headquarters or at the local office level. You recalled that, indeed, these people have devoted themselves body and soul, including weekends and public holidays, to ensuring that the mass of cases are dealt with as quickly as possible. Files that, as you mentioned, are more complex than in other payment agencies because CAPAC often intervenes in the alternative, with interlocutors who are not used to this type of process. The work is therefore often more complex than with other paying agencies and involves an influx of files that has been managed over the months. However, due to the wave of omicron, applications continue to flow significantly, which has implications for workload and case processing. A workload that, unfortunately, did not allow CAPAC services to provide you with the figures. I therefore invite you to ask me a written question in the next few days, and I will give you all the figures requested. The data could not be collected because of the workload on the officers, but it will be done if you ask me in writing in the next few days. I would like to remind you that the system of self-help has been put in place between CAPAC offices, and that the engagement of temporary contract staff has allowed the burden to be distributed and the various services to be provided. The situation has greatly improved, but the agents are exhausted, and it must be recognized, as is the case in most administrations that have been energized since the beginning and throughout this crisis. We must remain vigilant and ensure that we can continue to ensure the work of our administrations and the service provided to the public. During the next budgetary control, I will plead, in particular, that the necessary resources should be provided to maintain temporary staff to enable CAPAC to guarantee adequate working conditions and to maintain and even improve service to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic686x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully understand your request for figures because I have tabled my question quite recently. I will therefore ask you in writing about this. You talked about temporary contract agents. Are these those who are funded by the covid reserve? Yes. I see you're acquiescing. I invite you – and we will support you in this request – during the next budgetary control, to keep these temporary agents in order not only to guarantee the survival of the teams at CAPAC – it is still essential for the workers – but also to ensure that they can continue to perform quality work for the beneficiaries who have the right to receive their allowances in time and time.
