ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u3	Madam President, urgent procedure was requested for this draft law in plenary in November 2021. After that, the draft before us had to be rushed by the committee in seven haste. Our dear Minister's alibi for this was that the Vivaldi government is trying to catch up with a great deal of legislation, which is the fault of the previous government. The previous government had left a number of things too long. I am not making it up, ladies and gentlemen, in 2022 that excuse is still being used. The constructive proposal by a number of colleagues from the opposition, Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Sneppe and Mrs Fonck, to clarify and deal urgently with the urgent items in the draft and to deal with the non-emergency items at a later stage, unfortunately met with a Jet from the Minister and, by extension, from the majority parties. So we're on the verge of urgency six months later. It is only a tip, but perhaps the majority parties may have to accept the outstretched hand of the opposition once in a while, then this urgent draft might have been dealt with a little faster. Madam President, I had prepared a presentation that also discussed a large part of the articles in the draft, but I think that the services, and perhaps also you and some of my colleagues, will be grateful that I will confine myself to the part that was divine on Tuesday afternoon and which is still evident today. The rest was discussed extensively at first and second reading in committee and I will therefore have to repeat myself here and there. The amendment in question, which was adopted in the Committee on Health two days ago last Tuesday, is a special amendment, an amendment from the Happy Message, as it turned out. I already did the exclamation in committee, but I want to repeat it here today. Three cheers, three cheers again! There is now at last an agreement on something that we have been doing in this country for 25 years in order to reach an agreement that has been respected, and I do place the emphasis on compliance. There is now finally an agreement with the so-called Walloon-Brussels Federation. I also said in committee that this term is unconstitutional, but it does not seem to matter to anyone. Who could have guessed? Who would have dared to think? There's finally an agreement. Mr Bacquelaine, who will undoubtedly join us later, welcomed the fact that such agreements are still possible in this country. Only, good colleague, who hopefully hears me in the coffee room, is there really no agreement. It's not an agreement. The term chord is not even appropriate here. It is not an agreement, it is an encore, yet another encore of the Flemings. The Flemings are plodding again. Now I think that is basically the standard definition of an agreement in this country. Colleagues, the only thing we have had to swallow for that historic agreement, such as Flemings, is a kind of general forgiveness, a general pardon for the years of exceeding the quota that our Walloon sisters and brothers have celebrated. At the same time, the key that was based on the population, on the shovel, key for which the Flemings have fought for years and we will probably never see again, if it depends on the French-speaking. But, ladies and gentlemen, don't panic, now it's all gonna be fine, because, as I said, there's an agreement. This time our good friends on the other side of the language border will really keep their end of the bargain. They'll stick to the deal. It'll all be fine with the medical quotas by 2024. In committee, I was wondering what to do in 2024. I looked it up just in case. Well, it turns out that elections are being held! So in an election year everything will be fine! Even a Catholic like me - there are undoubtedly better ones - has to admit, I admire so much blind faith. We would almost forget the history of the file. The transfers produced from politics in Wallonia with the active support are now being cancelled. That and nothing else is reality. It is amnesty, ladies and gentlemen, to say it with a loaded term. Colleagues, some organisations in the field have criticized this. Mrs Vanpeborgh gave the list I quoted in committee. So I don't have to repeat it on this one. They also criticised that amnesty measure without any guarantee of the agreements. But colleagues, the Minister reassures us. "Don't panic, Flemish friends! Stay calm. The agreement is written in black and white on paper." I also wondered in committee and I still do not know where these agreements have been established over the past 25 years. That certainly needs to be investigated. Maybe we should set up a committee of inquiry for that. I think it's an interesting issue. Colleagues, I can already see the Minister thinking, "Creyelman, stop sawing." It sounds a bit like my wife sometimes, who asks me to stop repeating that same string. I can almost hear him thinking, "Creyelman, there are guarantees, we have guarantees." We have incorporated 4 locks into our historic agreement and the Planning Committee will take into account any transfers for subsequent years. Unfortunately, that's not really the problem. It is not a question of whether these quotas are adjusted according to whether or not there are transfers. It is a question of whether we as Flemings really believe that when it comes down to it, these adjusted quotas will be taken into account. That's what it's about, and nothing else. We had a guarantee for that, but it actually disappeared because of the vote on Amendment No 33. The only guarantee we have now is yet another solemn promise that the agreement will be respected this time. I wonder what's changed so suddenly. I was wondering that during the committee, and I'm still wondering now. What sudden change has caused our good French-speaking friends of the so-called Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles to respect the agreement reached? In committee it sounded that the French speakers share our ambition and that they agree with our analysis. So we're confident. However, the question remains whether the French speakers will also share our solution in 2024. That's the question. In view of the history of the dossier, I dare to doubt it. Mrs Vanpeborgh, I would like to address you first and thank you for your comprehensive and very correct report. I would like to come back to your amendment, although I have been working on it for ten minutes. During the discussion of your Amendment 33, I asked you how you would justify all this to the many thousands of Flemish students who have not been allowed to start their studies in the last 25 years. I asked you what explanation you gave, just as my group leader asked the Minister, Mrs Pas, and did you consider all this to be fair and fair? Your answer to that, Mr President, was that we should not continue to look at the past, but should look forward. I'm guessing you didn't choose the term forward by chance, but that aside. However, we are not frustrated, Mr President, make no mistake. We look not out of frustration at the past, but to learn something from it for the future. The past of this dossier teaches us that we look better at the future with a realistic view. So we are just being realistic. Colleagues, the committee has also raised a number of arguments that the maleized Flemish Interesters, what do I say, Flemings, I should not confuse the two because there is not a 100 % in the polls in 2019 a higher number of students had given the admission to start the studies of medicine and dentistry than was laid down in the federal quotas. I still assume, as in committee, that that was funny. If not, it would show a special form of cynicism. Especially when it is known that the quota for doctors was initially increased annually by and for the remainder on the French-speaking side and then by the introduction of the lissage system allowing French-speaking Belgium to make pre-purchases and to use partially the quotas for subsequent years. Colleagues, the reimbursement of these prepayments through the negative lissage system is now in sight. So we're gonna wipe out that rather bombasticly announced federal response. Tabula rasa mentioned it in committee during an oral question. So there's going to be amnesty now, to put it with a loaded term. There will be amnesty in exchange for an agreement, in which we will once again solemnly promise what we have been promising for twenty-five years, namely that we will compensate for any transfers one year later. It's a solemn promise, promised on the communion soul. This time it's for real, that's how it sounds to me. I wonder where else I've heard that. Where else did I hear that? I remember. Mrs Van Peel is not here for a while, but I am sure she is listening. Mrs Van Peel, was it not you who, under the Michel administration, if I am not mistaken, cried hallelujah three times, because everything was resolved? A good source has told me of it, namely www.valerievanpeel.be. However, I am glad that you will not be caught again today. I shall now return to Amendment No 2. 33. The only guarantee there was was that Article 69 in question. This was a direct consequence of the coalition agreement which explicitly mentions the federal response mechanism. That's one of the few trophies that CD&V got proud of. They're gonna have to deliver that trophy today, too. I have already noted in committee that the party is already having such a difficult time. Today she has also issued a minister, who resigns. That may be regrettable. Madam President, you will not expect that from me, but I would like to be on the record for CD&V, although the Good Week is already over. Mrs. Muylle, I felt sorry for you last Tuesday. You had to do the amendment No. 33 while it was clear to everyone, or at least to me, that this was not heartfelt. Well, I'm still kind of expressing myself. I looked it up. You stated on the whole issue: "I hope it is enough, but personally I doubt it. I give this the benefit of the doubt, but I do not fully trust it." Good colleague, at that moment, I was struck by a moment of humanity. I sincerely felt sorry for you, because, against your better judgment, you voted in favour of that amendment to remove the federal response mechanism. Perhaps in one last attempt to appease your conscience, you said that we can still invoke it. However, you must explain to me how you are calling for something that is no longer in the text. It is no longer in the text because you voted it out yourself. You can't call anymore because there's nothing left. By the way, Mr President, do you really think that you will ever find a majority for this? I don't think you believe that yourself. Madam President, I would also like to address the French-speaking colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you had four points on your hands a while ago in the context of the Week against Bullying. Walloon friends, I would like to call you in all modesty to stop bullying CD&V. They didn't have many toys in the coalition agreement, and you took another one from them. Stop it, colleagues, that's bullying. Have a little pity on CD&V, show a little clemency. If this continues, you condemn CD&V to eternal damnation in the realm of invertebrates. I don't think this is the plan. So allow, my friends in Wallonia, that we of Flemish Interest give the people of CD&V another chance. Allow them to adopt our amendment in the near future to re-introduce the relevant Article 69, the federal response mechanism which Mrs Muylle was quite right to be proud of. Give CD&V another chance. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister is so confident that the French speakers will comply with this agreement, why did Article 69 have to be removed from this draft? If everyone keeps their end of the bargain - and you are confident in that - then that response mechanism will not enter into force at all. The Flemish colleagues who approved this and the plans to vote against our amendment will have to ask one question. They must ask themselves a rather simple question, namely why the French speakers are arguing about the copyright of the removal of the Federal Response Mechanism. Why are they fighting to claim copyright? Why, Flemish friends, do the French speakers almost stumble across each other to claim the deletion of Article 69? Asking the question is answering them. I know the answer and I suspect you will know the answer by 2024 at the latest. The only conclusion that can be drawn from this is that by neutralizing the Federal Response Mechanism you have given out the only stick you had. I know the Minister likes comparisons with traffic, so I'm gonna do him a favor. The French speakers have been driving the motorway for many years and decades. Within a few kilometers there is now a flash pole. However, they do not have much sense of braking and therefore the maximum speed is adjusted. More than that, we're even gonna tear down the flash pole. Flemish colleagues, you will have a chance to make this right. You're gonna get a chance to put that flash pole back. I hope you'll seize that opportunity with both hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me refer to an article that appears in the text before referring to another which is no longer there. Article 149, which deals with the practice of euthanasia, is, in my view, a step forward. Indeed, it can be seen that many doctors no longer practice euthanasia, not out of personal conviction, but simply because this act requires not only a strong commitment, but also a great deal of availability to the person who asks for euthanasia, as well as to his family, his relatives and any witnesses. In the face of the shortage of doctors who practice euthanasia, it was therefore necessary to make arrangements. It is noted that the older doctors committed themselves at the time of the coming into force of the Euthanasia Act. They were very available to carry out this act. However, this may not be the case for younger generations. In so doing, this article provides, as was provided for in the medical-mutualist agreement of 2020, for compensation, excluding nomenclature, for euthanasia practised by the attending physician. This article gives the King and the Minister the opportunity to make provision for this compensation, to determine the amount and modalities of the compensation and, consequently, to encourage, as in the case of the scientific society of general medicine, collaboration between the oldest doctors who have experience in this field and the younger doctors who wish to put into practice the act of euthanasia at the request of the patient. I wanted to highlight this article 149, which seems to me something positive and which brings added value to our legislative arsenal. Now I come to section 69, to tell you that I am somewhat surprised at the astonishment that one may have with regard to the dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction of those among us who consider – and it is legitimate, everyone has his or her views on this point – that federal loyalty or the possibility of entering into agreements in a federal framework is something toxic and harmful. That is what this is all about. It's a demonstration. It is still possible, in our country, in federal consultation, to enter into federal agreements, whether we like them or not. Some people don't want this, and I respect them, others think it's rather beneficial. Here, it is indeed the result of a consultation which was desired by the Minister, by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and by Minister Glatigny. This required a negotiation on the very basis of our health care planning system. We are also swimming in the midst of a paradox in this matter: personally, as a liberal, I am rather in favour of planning the medical supply, but I hear that the communists are against planning. Like, anything is possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u5	I would like to speak because I have been quoted. Mr Bacquelaine, I do not know if you have targeted me by saying that "communists are against planning". I had a doubt. I think there's a little confusion. We are indeed for planning but we are not for a selection at the entrance of studies, which will make the teaching and the medical profession more elitist. We are not in favour of that. Secondly, as I said to Mrs Van Peel, we are against what is causing the real over-consumption in medicine and which is causing the shortage of general practitioners, that is, the medicine at the service, which is so dear to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u6	If I'm in favour of this medical offer planning...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u7	Excuse me, Mr. Bacquelaine. Mrs Depoorter asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u8	Mrs Merckx, I can now hear you say for the second time that you are opposed to excessive consumption, given the cost of performance medicine. However, you have not read the studies correctly. We have already discussed this at the committee meeting, but I would like to come back to the distribution of prices per patient in the district health centres in relation to general practitioners' practices. I suggest that you read that study again, because the additional costs in the district health centres can count.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that dialogue can only take place between speakers and not between other Members. Mrs. Merckx, Mrs. Depoorter, having called you, you have ten seconds to react. Then the speaker will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u10	I will be brief, because I find this interesting, Mrs Depoorter, and you are quoting the example of flat-rate practices. What do these flat-rate practices mean? This means not only stepping away from performance medicine, but also multidisciplinary cooperation, recruiting other staff, ensuring that general practitioners are not completely buried under the administration. This also means refinancing and investment in the first line. That is what we wish for all general practitioners, as you know. We call for all Belgians to be able to go to the general practitioner without money, including the doctors where there is a performance payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u11	Madam President, thank you. If Mrs Merckx and Mrs Depoorter wish to initiate a debate on the general organisation of health care, then we can go to the city for dinner and then come back to discuss the subject on the agenda. If I share the need for this planning, it is because I think it is necessary to take into account several elements. First of all, our university and hospital training system is, of course, designed to train doctors as well. We must always maintain a balance between the capacity of quality training – I always insist on this factor – because we cannot invent patients to the infinity, nor multiply university assistants and professors, nor constantly increase all the material necessary for the training of students, and a principle of reality. This is one of the main criteria to be used by the Planning Commission, so that it ensures that the number of students admitted to our universities is compatible with the responsibility of good training. Secondly, we must match the medical supply with the health quality needs. This obviously requires objective health needs, as well as the quality of care needed, and ensuring that the general medical supply can meet these health needs. That's the second objective. The third is to ensure that students who engage in medical studies do not constantly have a sword of Damocles above their head as to the possibility of obtaining at the end of the course the award of a professional title, that is to say that of exercising the profession for which they have committed themselves and have devoted extremely sustained efforts. I think that when we talk about elitism, there is nothing worse than allowing access to a large number of students and making them believe that they will automatically receive a professional qualification, although we know that this is not always possible if we do not respect the match between supply and health needs. I find this to be a disadvantage to a whole group of students, particularly from a less favoured social environment, who may be less able to withstand this pressure that is now being experienced in medical studies and which causes some students to drop out completely because they do not resist this pressure. I really believe that this planning is necessary for these three reasons: to remove the uncertainty faced by many students today; to ensure that the quality of training is ensured; and to ensure that the medical supply corresponds to the needs of the objective care. That is why I think that the solution here is a good solution and, as I said, it is a federal loyalty that I believe is necessary when we look at the whole issue of health care in our country. As you know, the skills are diverse and there are several levels of power in our health care system today. It is necessary to guarantee this possibility of federal cooperation and consultation at this level. So it seems to me to be a step forward. I would also like to say to Mrs Fonck, whose assurance I do not want to run counter to, that the amendment, which we have tabled and which bears a predestined number when it comes to medicine, since it is Amendment 33, is probably similar to the amendment she tabled at the very beginning of our discussions on this bill, but the context is quite different. This amendment 33 is tabled while ensuring the safety of students, while eliminating the excesses and surpluses that have been dragging on quotas for years and at the same time allowing for the functioning of the federal system and the increase of quotas for the future. When the opposition tabled the same amendment at the beginning of the analysis of this draft, we had no guarantee of that, no certainty. The context is therefore quite different. I have never had the slightest doubt about the need to reach such an agreement in order to achieve the objectives we had. If we had accepted the amendment tabled by Mrs Fonck at the beginning of the analysis of this draft, I fear that we would not have been in the situation in which we are in. I therefore welcome this temporality and succession in the analysis of this dossier. I would add that the increase in quotas for 2028 is a significant step forward. It is interesting to analyse the figures for this increase. Numbers increase by 26% in Flanders and 16% in Wallonia. Why? Because when the Planning Commission analyses the number of students needed and the labour force in the medical supply, it integrates the real situation. The actual situation included an excess of more than 1,000 students, who were previously smoothed. The Planning Commission has incorporated this in the definition of quotas for 2028. Since this excess was much more important on the French side than on the Flemish side, the increase in quotas is necessarily more important in Flanders than it is on the French side. It's purely mathematical. And it reflects a real situation on the ground. I wanted to say that because, sometimes, some people claim to be giving a gift or passing the sponge over a situation of overnumbering and surplus gradually constituted in recent years. It's not about that. This excess is effectively incorporated into the definition of new quotas. So there is simply a rebalancing, a regularization and we go back to zero in a much more correct and much clearer system for everyone. That is the reality, and I wanted to say it again, because I cannot accept it being claimed that, on the francophone side, we would have gone for some kind of quota alms because that is not the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u12	Mr Bacquelaine, with figures one can indeed go either way. Of course, this huge increase also has to do with a legislative amendment that has yet to be made, which I hope Flanders will not just accept. You now calculate the percentage from the 505 students you would still receive in the next fifteen years. Then, of course, you will rise tremendously, because the agreement of the previous government to which your party belonged, by the way, had made it necessary to pay off the excess. Let's call a cat a cat. If one loses a drop that one still had to pay off for a while, one gets a general pardon and then uses the figures of the Planning Committee, then Flanders indeed rises harder. That's a very strange conclusion. However, the only important thing in all these figures is not even the figure for the following year, but the fact that from now on we simply accept that a French language needs health other than a Flemish, because we accept the following parameter: if a Flemish needs one doctor, a French language needs one and a half. The figures for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the years after will therefore continue to differ, because you seem to need more doctors for the same care. That's the definition of a country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u13	We have simply moved on to a system where needs are calculated in a more objective way rather than just the usual 60/40 key, which I do not think was necessarily favourable. Here, we are more in the objectivation of care needs. Quotas are adapted to this, while taking into account the number of doctors currently at work. This number, on the French-speaking side, includes the overnumbers, the surpluses built up on the basis of previous years. In my view, this is inconclusive and the Planning Commission has done so in the context of real objectivity. It is made up of Flemish and Francophone doctors and personalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u14	Mr Bacquelaine, you have provided a whole line of reasoning, as in committee, concerning Mrs Fonck's amendment, which is exactly the same as was tabled in December and which is tabled today by the majority. You say the situation is different because an agreement has been reached. I will tell you why this amendment was withdrawn. Not because there was a deal. You wanted to use this article to put pressure on Mrs. Glatigny. If the amendment was withdrawn today, it was because the students were on the street and struggled. The withdrawal of this amendment is their victory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u15	That's your interpretation. The fact that they're on the street isn't recent. There has always been opposition from some of the students to the system, but it is not at all unanimous. I can tell you that I know of student federations in some universities that are very much in favour of planning because for them, the major problem is to create total uncertainty with regard to the granting of the professional title. Many students considered that they were taken hostage by rather political games. They were asking for clarification. This clarification is here, within the framework of this agreement. Many students – I'm not necessarily talking about those who are dear to you, everyone seems to have their students – now experience some relief from the fact that they now know that when they are in the curriculum, they will have access to the professional title. Of course, there will be a loss factor, that's normal. The diploma is not acquired once and for all. You know, not everyone succeeds every year. On the other hand, if they pass their exams and regularly complete their entire course, they are now guaranteed access to this professional qualification. I would like to add one element. I've heard of a shortage on a number of occasions. I think there is a problem with the distribution of care in our country. Geographically – I am close to my Luxembourg colleague – there are places where there is a shortage of generalists, in particular. In addition, there is also sometimes a poor distribution between specialties, with specialties that are overloaded and others that are lacking. The work will therefore also consist of gradually ensuring better distribution. It is important that we can succeed in this, because there is also the possibility for patients to benefit from quality community medicine. It is an effort that remains to be made. This distribution, both geographically and by specialty, and particularly the policy of the subquotas, is extremely important. This is the responsibility of the Communities. This must be done with the assistance of the Regions, since there are installation bonuses in areas where general practitioners are lacking. These "Impuleo" bonuses are now necessary to rebalance the territory, in a way. That is also what we want to do in the very near future. In conclusion, I would say that this federal agreement – it is a federal agreement – allows us to meet objectives that we have been pursuing for some time now. We remove this uncertainty, or even anxiety, that students have suffered for too long. It is also the best way to target our health care needs and match the medical supply to these objectified needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me if I do not make a long speech today. My group is not here, except for Mr Briers, who supports me here, but I am here because I thought it was important to have our vote on this bill. Unfortunately, this draft law does not sufficiently highlight a number of important steps forward. Today we have repeatedly talked about affordable, accessible, quality care, also in the first line. Well, the abolition of the ban on the third-payer scheme, an important measure for my party....................................................................................................................................................................................... I find it incomprehensible that a primary care provider can still refuse to apply the third-party payment scheme today. Even more severe is that anyone who wants to apply the scheme will be banned from doing so until now. Mrs Merckx, I have heard your speech, but I can assure you, Mrs Depoorter, that Flanders counts a lot of good and very low-threshold general practitioners. The general practitioner's practice with 8 general practitioners where I go has been applying the third-payer scheme for years, whereas they are not allowed to do so. The doctor always points out: Mrs. Muylle didn't bring her wallet. Then he can apply the third-payer scheme. A lot of doctors on the ground follow his example. The draft law before us creates the legal basis for this and we are taking an important step forward. Moreover, I would like to go even further with the third-payer scheme - the committee members know that - particularly with regard to the global medical dossier. The draft law also brings relief to some aspects of mental health care. It is well known that I fought for years for the recognition of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics. Already in 1999, with then colleague Muriel Gerkens, we are working on the approximation of legislation in this area. Fortunately, together with many colleagues in the previous legislature, we were able to move forward, including the refinement of the regulation by Mrs De Block. That was not easy or easy, which was due to the vastly different field of work. Without commenting on its quality, I have to say that very different training courses were offered which were not always easy to reconcile. There was early agreement on the recognition of clinical psychologists. Eventually, the clinical orthopedagogic eyes were included in the legal text, which was not so obvious, because the courses were very different. In any case, a number of transitional provisions were introduced for clinical psychologists. As the implementation of the law revealed that, among other things, we had not worked sufficiently finely for the clinical orthopedagogic eyes, this draft law rightly makes adjustments. The text now also refers to people who have acquired competences in the past. Those who, for example, did not graduate as a clinical psychologist, but did perform many years of clinical work, may later take that experience into the recognition file, so that it is not lost. This rule is extended in this draft law to clinical orthopedagogues. I've tried to include the clinical sexuologists in the exercise, but that field is even more diverse. I understand that an opinion on this matter is expected from the Federal Council for the Mental Health Care Occupations. Indeed, there must be a legal framework for quality sexual health care, because people are also vulnerable in the sexual field. Some articles in the bill improve the multidisciplinary collaboration between clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics tailored to the patient with the creation of the legal basis for the patient's personal share. The crisis has shown us the importance of such an approach, inter alia, to the complex problem of psychological vulnerability of people in poverty. With the government, we are taking steps forward, even though we are all aware that we are not ready yet. Resources have been put in place and a great deal of progress has been made in order to provide a number of solutions. We have not yet discussed the offer of tobacco to minors. There's a difference between selling and offering. In the case of alcohol this was already regulated, there is a legal basis. There is no legal basis for tobacco today. This is in here. It is a good thing that this legislation is treated in the same way. We have been wanting to have an adult debate on addiction care for a long time. I understand that the Interfederal Drugs Cell, together with the Members of the Communities, is looking at how we can take further steps without actually culpabilising groups. Especially young people should not be cultivated. However, addiction is a very broad problem. We must be able to respond to many different aspects. Cooperation is also the solution. There is a whole section of prevention and a whole section of medical care. It is also about offer and price. There are many different aspects to this. Colleagues, I really hope that we can work together on the basis of the working groups we are currently working on. Perhaps there could even be new national plans for this. After all, it is important to take steps forward. Then I have one last point. Mr Van Hoof would blame me if I did not mention this. The fact that today, after so many years, there is a legal basis for a palliative statute is very important for our party. Mr Van Hoof put forward a legislative proposal on this matter a few years ago. We are still waiting for it to be implemented. It is certainly important to establish a palliative status based on care needs. There is still no such thing today. It adopts the legal basis. We think that is very positive. I now come to the article on quotas in question. Colleagues, I've heard a lot here tonight. I think it's a difficult discussion. The question is how to solve such a problem. I'm gonna take it wider. We have talked about many aspects of our health care this evening. We also know that there are a lot of plans on the table, several yards, to reform health care in a thorough way. For me, this is one small puzzle piece of it. It's about much more than just the question of how many students are getting started in education. This is also about appeal activity of the profession. It's also about general medicine. In recent years, federal but also Community efforts have been made, such as the many funds launched by Mrs Onkelinx. Since the last state reform, this has gone to the Communities, where a great deal of progress has also been made in the first line. The latest state reform has provided the Communities with instruments to further define and work on subquotas. That is also very important. We believe in planning and are convinced that planning stands for quality of care and quality of training. I would like to see this fully included in the Communities. The question is whether there is support for this by the majority. If this were the case, there should also be some kind of response mechanism in the global exercise that the Minister is working on today when certain things go wrong. There will have to be compensation, unless full social security is transferred as well. We're not there today. I'm not a big fan of the response mechanism in itself. We have entered that in the government agreement with quota attestations. This means that after six years young people will not be admitted to further training in a specialty they dream of, because there are not enough numbers. We could choose to solve all that. I've heard people say a lot over the years that maybe all of that needs to go away and that there's no need for an entrance exam anymore. They wanted to admit everyone to the training, but they wanted to be strict and then they wanted to see. Anyone studying law today has to find their way. Many people are also doing six years today about training in law. They are not all admitted to a courtroom or to the legal profession. This applies to many professions. Why doesn't medicine do this? Just let everyone start the training. At the end of the studies one can then spread the graduates. This could be a solution, but we are not in favour of it. It's a very expensive education, one with a lot of internship. Our organisation of care cannot handle offering such mass qualitative internships today. That is why we need to ensure that there is planning and that we coordinate that planning. CD&V supports this principle. Are we always so happy with the current state of affairs? Mr Merckx, I can partially follow you. I've been there with my kids myself. Many of their friends were incredibly talented. Others were less talented, but due to the financial capacity of their parents who could afford extra lessons for years, they were given access to training. The first group, the very talented, who did not have the necessary support, could not do this. That's not the model I support either. Our education must be democratic so that young people with equal opportunities can start such a test and have access to training. That is not our competence, it is the competence of the Communities. Mr Van Peel knows that I have been here with her many times and that we have said a lot of the same about many things. For years I have had difficulty with young people being punished in Flanders, especially in recent years with a system of numerus fixus. Students with more than 50% and passed the entrance exam were not allowed because there were so much better in the exam. When the parents were financially wealthy, they went to Namur and obtained their diploma there, after which they returned to Flanders. Then everything was okay. Not everyone had the luxury of doing that. I've been having trouble with the fact that a lot of young people haven't been able to live up to their dreams and haven't been able to do things. That is why I think it is important that this so-called differentiation should not be done at the end of training. I won't talk about numbers anymore. I know your criticism, you gave me the figures this week. It's not a historic deal for me. It's an agreement that can be defended. Why? I still believe that it is much better to go along with an agreement and believe that there will be an exam and that, with the locks that are incorporated into the design, it could still have a chance. I'm on parole, and I've been on parole this week. I think that is better than not to do that and to tell young people today that they will not be admitted at the end of their studies. We have done so with the kinesis, and I have seen what that has done. That's not the society I stand for. I do not stand for a society where people are told, after six years of studies, that the rules of the game are changed and that it is done for them. I don't want to. That is why the agreement applies to the quota attestations(???). It is true, Mrs Merckx, that we have built them in for a piece as a means of exerting pressure to ensure that there was also an entrance exam in French-speaking Belgium. That's right. I'm very honest and correct in that. For us, however, this is a much fairer system, with all its advantages and disadvantages, than a system in which we would say to people at the end of their education that they should not go any further. That is why I want to give the benefit of what is on the table today. We will approve the draft and I sincerely hope that it will be the start of a positive project. I'm cautiously optimistic. For me it's not about songs, but about people who have a dream about a very nice profession and I hope they can make that dream come true.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u17	Madam President, I want to react to our colleague's last thoughts and reassure her. The commitment made by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Pierre-Yves Jeholet and my friend Valerie Glatigny to Minister Vandenbroucke is a commitment that will be fulfilled. I can personally commit to this. I have every confidence in Valérie Glatigny and she has already started working on the organisation of this competition. We understand the difficulty of getting to this file. Daniel Bacquelaine explained very well what the exact content of the figures was because we hear and say anything. He's been very specific about how it's designed. We thank Minister Vandenbroucke for the work he has done. We're people of the word. The competition will be held, not in 2022 since the agreement provides that it will be in 2023. Valérie Glatigny has already started working there. We do not compromise with agreements of this quality!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u18	Mr. Piedboeuf, but because you interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u19	No, Mrs. Van Peel, just Mrs...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u20	Madam President, she's done and it's his. Mr. Piedboeuf made a mistake and not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u21	Mrs. Van Peel, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u22	Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to believe that personal promise of yours, but have you just heard Mr Prévot, who is of course a member of your coalition partner in the government? I don't think so. Did you hear him? He was asked the same question. He replied that he is against an entrance exam, but that he is only a Member of Parliament and certainly does not promise anything here. You must have missed that for a while ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u24	Mr Bacquelaine, you will be able to react to the comments made by the various speakers, but as we have to move forward in our work, I will now give the floor to Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u25	Madam President, in any case, this shows that the dice are not being played. Students can therefore continue to protest against the implementation of this unjust entrance examination. First of all, my intervention will focus on the general scope of the bill under consideration and on the method that Vivaldi has applied. I do not know whether to speak of the Vivaldi method or the Vandenbroucke method. Things are not very clear! On November 25, the government called for urgency for this project. All the members of the majority have risen and the urgency has been adopted. Finally, it will only be voted on this 12 May. At the end of November, we received this bill, which contains 1,850 pages and deals with very different subjects (drugs, fee supplements, euthanasia, paying third party, palliative care). It made sense for Members that we want to get to know each of the articles, to take the time to form an opinion, to ask for the point of view of the actors on the ground, etc. But, a few days after the emergency vote, you wanted us to discuss this project. The opposition has therefore made every effort to block the process, if only to have time to read all the articles. Reading these articles has made it possible to identify some nuggets that have already been widely discussed. There was, among other things, the database you are going to create or this famous article 69 on INAMI numbers, which my colleague Fonck noted. Perhaps you wanted to go through this in catini but, indeed, this problem of INAMI numbers has aroused a thunder of protests. You did not then submit this text to the agenda, but you are submitting it five months after you have obtained this agreement. Meanwhile, all the other elements of this text, which was urgent, some of which were urgent, remained blocked. I think this really shows contempt for Parliament. We, together with the opposition, told you from the beginning to take what was urgent, that we would vote on these urgent points, and that the other points would be dealt with properly afterwards, when we would be able to read all the texts. I do not know if this method is the Vivaldi method or the Vandenbroucke method, but it is true, minister, that you are quite limited, everyone has been able to realize it. You persist, against winds and tides, against civil society and scientists. And against Parliament when it tells you that some of your proposals are no longer up-to-date such as compulsory vaccination of caregivers, for example. We are also thinking of sanctions for long-term patients, where you also persist in spite of the negative opinions of all partners. When you decide it won't pass, it doesn't pass. That will happen when Mr Vandenbroucke has reached his agreement. Finally, you see Parliament as a mere press-button body. I am not going to discuss all the points in this text, which would take too long. I will point out two that were urgent and positive in my view. First, blood donation. In 2019, the Constitutional Court ruled that our law was discriminatory against homosexual men. In addition, the current law makes no difference between the donation of blood and the donation of plasma. In this case, the bill will restore this discrimination by quarantined plasma. Otherwise, we could have supported you. Ms Muylle noted the removal of the third-party fee restriction. This is indeed positive, but the measure should have been applied as early as 1 January, so that the vagueness reigned for months. The third-party fee is based on the principle that the patient pays only the moderator ticket during his visit to the doctor, but this is only allowed in certain cases: it must be allowed, enjoying the status of the third-party fee or of the chronic patient. However, it may be difficult to pay your doctor, even if you do not belong to either of these categories. When a grandmother fails to get out of bed on a weekend, the home visit will cost her 60 euros. Therefore, removing this restriction is a positive reform. Everyone can now ask their doctor to pay only the moderator ticket. So that's a step forward. However, the doctor is not obliged to comply with this provision and, therefore, may refuse it. In our view, this is problematic. The PTB obviously pleads to go further. We introduced a bill so that the patient could consult a general practitioner without having to pay for it. The Court of Auditors and INAMI gave a positive opinion. During several hearings, a lot of associations and actors on the ground approved this bill. Moreover, during his speech on 1 May in front of the Brussels PS, Mr Laaouej said that free first-line medicine was a priority to be implemented. I hope it wasn't just a promise of circumstance and that his words were sincere. We support what is presented today, but we will evaluate it. Besides, we have to go further. We will continue the fight on the ground and in Parliament so that any Belgian can go without money to his generalist. Of course, for the past 50 years, with Medicine for the People, we have been putting this principle into practice. That is why last year we celebrated the fifty years of our centres and are proud of our initiatives. A lot has been said here about the RIZIV numbers. Minister, you said you concluded a historic agreement. You put those words in your mouth. Apparently, that opinion is not shared by everyone, because all students who are now studying medicine will receive a RIZIV number at the end of their studies. In return, a solid filter will be installed and there will also be an entrance exam with a numerus fixus on the French-speaking side. I believe that an historic agreement would be an agreement that would respond to the challenges we face, including the acute shortage of doctors in the field. However, one simply continues with performance medicine on the one hand, while on the other hand education is made more elitist. I think this is a missed opportunity to change course. For me, therefore, it is an historic mistake. It is an absurd agreement, because one of the major challenges is effectively the shortage of doctors. It has already been said, in Flanders three out of four municipalities are poor in general practitioners. We also started the corona crisis unprepared. Like Erika Vlieghe said, we were naked with the buttocks. In a poll in November 2021, only 8% of doctors said they could handle the workload. Of course, that was in full pandemic, but still, 92 percent could not cope with the workload. There were a lot of doctors with burn-out. When practices are closed, we often see that there is no buyer and that those patients are left behind without a doctor. Care is changing, care organisation is changing, the population is ageing, and we already have a lack of prevention in our country. Today, there is a far too small budget for prevention. I believe that we also need doctors who listen to their patients, who make time for their patients, who talk about prevention and who work for it. For me, therefore, an inflow restriction is absurd and incomprehensible. By the way, that numerus fixus originally had to serve public health. In 1997 it was introduced as a corporatist measure, requested by the medical syndicates. It was also meant as a saving measure, as explained here, based on a questionable theory. This theory, which the N-VA often cites, says that the supply of doctors creates demand. The increased questions put social security expenditure at risk. That is what we want to save. The conclusion is that social security can also be saved if you save on the number of doctors. However, this theory is not scientifically substantiated at all. I quote Arthur Vleugels, emeritus professor and former director at the Centre for Hospital and Nursing Science at the Faculty of Medicine at KU Leuven: "There are many examples of supply-driven demand in the economy, but in medicine that principle is far from absolute." That doesn't mean it can't have a small influence, but the link is definitely not absolute. Demand is driven by demand, and I think that is where the heart lies because of the patient's real need for care. He therefore concludes that an influx restriction, as decided today, is worthy of the 20th century. We've already talked about student demonstrations. If we discuss it today, it is because of their struggle. After noting the famous article, we were flooded with hundreds of e-mails from medical students who were obviously very worried. So they demonstrated. With section 69, minister, you wanted to arrogate the right to deny students an INAMI number after graduation. They were therefore right to demonstrate, because they found themselves faced with immense legal uncertainty. The purpose of this article was to put pressure on Minister Glatigny of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation to respect the quotas. Thus, the future of students was instrumentalised for political purposes between the federal government and that of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. This is now confirmed because, following the agreement, you have decided, Minister Vandenbroucke, to withdraw this article. However, are we sure that this saga will not be remake? In this case, I must give some reason to the N-VA. We are not sure that this measure will be carried out, just as we do not know if there will be any further endless quarrels – as is evident from this discussion on quotas. This is the opposite approach we choose. In order to prevent this from happening again, we have tabled an amendment today. On the contrary of yours, he offers students the legal guarantee that they will receive an INAMI number – without determining which one – upon graduation. I think that's the least I can do. The students' struggle has borne fruit. It was also because they went down the street against this article and the restriction of admissions that the article was finally repealed. It's their victory. However, Mr Bacquelaine, when you say that they are pleased with this agreement, I have the impression that you have neglected some of their statements. Indeed, whether at the Fédération des étudiants francophones or at the CIUM, they all said they were not at all satisfied with this agreement. Yes, it removes legal uncertainty, but no, they don't agree with a solid filter. They didn't digest that numerus fixus at all. They are fighting for egalitarian education. I repeat what Mr Arthur Vleugels of the KUL said, especially for you, Minister. He considers it a mortal sin to divert young talents from the care sector. With this filter, you therefore opt for an even more elitist education because not everyone has the means to take the courses to prepare for the entrance exam. You only know too well that this will make it more difficult for working class people to access medical studies. We also need more preventive medicine, in the working-class neighborhoods, with committed doctors, who know what it's like to live in a small apartment, in a neighborhood where air quality is bad. Doctors who know how factory work destroys your back, especially if you have to work up to 67 years. But nobody here seems to think that this unfair selection is a problem. From Vooruit to Vlaams Belang, everyone here pleads for the numerus fixus and therefore for a more elitist teaching. Indeed, Mr. Bacquelaine, you have admitted that the admission of new students should be limited to ensure the quality of teaching. Training doctors actually costs money. That's right. But when you say that there must not be too many students to guarantee the quality of the teaching, you admit in some way that the teaching is underfunded. But we need more doctors. We also need accessible and democratic education. In order to do so, the necessary investments must be made in medical studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u26	I'm not talking about teaching as such. I said that training requires students to meet, examine and interview patients. At times, it was seen that there was a difficulty for internship students in hospital rooms to meet with enough patients or they were literally exhausting the sick by examining them or interrogating them several times on the same day. That's what I'm highlighting. We need to be careful about that. Students must have the opportunity to benefit from a medical practice. This is not so much theoretical teaching. That's something else. This is for me the first reason for planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u27	Mr Bacquelaine, I hear you're changing your speech a little bit. But even for this problem of internship places, there is a way to find more traineeships, to train more and to ensure that more students can meet patients. I do not think that there is a shortage of patients in Belgium. I think this is a problem that we can quite solve. I'm closing up. In my opinion, there is no problem with oversupply of doctors and a reduction in the number of doctors is completely absurd. The real problem today, which I've been trying to raise a few times, is performance medicine. That system provides a two-speed medicine. On the one hand, underconsumption is among those who cannot afford it and on the other hand there is overconsumption among patients who can afford it and who sometimes undergo unnecessary studies because of the payment per performance. This payment per achievement results in some doctors making a lot of money compared to other doctors. What we need is an accessible first-line care with sufficient attention to prevention. To make that possible, doctors should no longer be paid per performance and we should think about a flat-rate payment. We're not alone with that either. For example, they can take the time to provide their patients with quality care and to approach them in a holistic way, not as prescribers that allow as many patients as possible to pass in an hour, but as involved doctors who are committed to the health of the patient. An accessible first line also means that people can go to the general practitioner without money, so that they do not delay care for financial reasons. Finally, there is another reason why we will not approve this bill, namely the creation of a new mega-databank containing health data. With this law, the government is setting up a new mega database with all our medical referrals. I suspect that one of the first uses of this might be to look for all the documents needed to hunt the long-term sick. This raises many questions about the protection of this very sensitive data. The database will be managed by the RIZIV, but we know that this is actually the non-profit association Smalls. Mr Frank Robben had to resign there because there was a European trial against him for conflicts of interest because he has the monopoly on all government IT projects. So we have serious questions about how these sensitive data will be managed. Moreover, the Minister has still not answered the questions raised in committee. Minister, the way in which you have conducted this course is symbolic of the way in which you conduct your policy. You express your will, public and democratic debate, as you do in the case of the long-term sick. The parliamentary discussion is a formality for you, a mandatory number that you would prefer to deal with without too much contradiction. Fortunately, the students have come to the streets to protest your law. Their struggle has been rewarded, but we cannot agree that you are piloting a 1,850-page bill through Parliament without a thorough discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this draft law is finally before the vote today and is being discussed again. It is a comprehensive bill and honesty also requires that there is a great deal of legal work behind it. There are a lot of pages of legislative technique involved. The number of pages of the draft law should therefore also be somewhat relative. It's been on the road for a while, as Mrs Merckx said. It was placed on the table in mid-November 2021. We are now in mid-May 2022. You have explained the urgency of this. I think it was definitely urgent. You will also remember the status of the doctors-specialists in training, which we learned from it because it was so urgent. Many other issues included in the draft law have long been awaiting a solution. I would like to mention a few elements which our group considers important. The lifting of the ban on the third party payment system is an important step forward, as well as the possibility for patients to receive innovative therapeutic treatments in other European Member States. The following issues are also important to us: greater transparency of hospital invoices, especially in the area of the regulation of fees supplements, and sanctions for non-compliance with them, the audit system for hospitals, because there is a need for greater transparency and the need to encourage hospitals to make greater use of generic and biosimilary medicines. What we also consider important is the establishment of the platform for patient associations, the legal basis for the palliative status and also the support of an umbrella organisation for patients, RaDiOrg. There is criticism here that it is only EUR 25,000, but I can assure you, after a recent contact with that organisation, that she will definitely appreciate that amount, because she has been waiting for it for some time. Then we end up with my comments on the famous Article 69 and the medical quotas. First of all, I would like to apologize, because in my naivety as a neophyte I thought I would make a comprehensive oral report, so that the debate would certainly be shorter. I see Mrs. Van Peel laughing now. I've misjudged that grandiose, and that's never gonna happen to me again; you probably won't either. Mr Creyelman reiterated his question from the committee meeting the day before yesterday, in particular how I will justify the deletion of Rule 69 to all those Flemish students who were not allowed to start their studies at the time. The day before yesterday in the committee I noticed spontaneously and rightly that Flanders has already exceeded those quotas and has thus also made a distinction between different generations of students. Whosoever is without sin, cast the first stone. But on second thought, I'm thinking more deeply about things, I have to conclude that my answer was far from complete. I would first of all make it clear to the young people or students concerned that the only right way is to take the comparative entrance exam, which the Flemish Community has been following for a long time, and to the medical planning of the current and future care needs, taking into account also the bottleneck specialities, which are therefore inadequate, an aspect which is often addressed in committee. In my opinion, this is the only way forward, both in the interests of patients and caregivers and also in the interests of students. If the number of doctors is properly aligned with the needs of the population, this will have a positive impact on the quality of training. Training capacity is there and it is needed. It also has a positive impact on the quality of the medical profession and on the quality of care. That can and must be given. Secondly, I would like to tell the students that this can be regretted or angry about it; Mr Creyelman said earlier that he was not frustrated, but I think it is true that the French Community did not initially believe in this method. We feel that there is a change in this respect, thanks to the recent negotiations in dialogue and the elaboration of a detailed agreement, and we are prepared to follow the same path, which was confirmed here in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u29	Mrs Vanpeborgh, I would like to thank you for reconsidering the question I asked you at the committee meeting and during my speech. I really appreciate you trying to give me an even more comprehensive answer. Your answer, or at least its beginning, is, in a way, a political answer. You say that the Flemings also exceeded the quotas in 2019. That is, of course, different from the structural overruns on the other side of the language border. That's a first element. Secondly, you answer me that you will explain to the students that what is now ahead is the best system. We differ on that, that is everyone's right. It is, of course, a fact that we have not explained it to the thousands of students who have not been able to pursue their dream of pursuing that profession, simply because quotas have been respected on the Dutch-speaking side of the language border. That's what it's about. What would have happened if we had told you my fous on both sides of the language line? Then there were no quotas, then we would have to stick to nothing. Even so, you couldn't have reached an agreement. The question is not, therefore, how do you justify the draft law to the students who are yet to come, because I follow you in that, even if we disagree, your explanation is as plausible as mine. The question is how do you justify the bill to students who had to pursue a different dream than originally planned? With all due respect, for that last group of students, in my opinion, your responsibility does not go up. It doesn't apply to those students, for those who want to study medicine in the future. I find that a somewhat strange explanation. Nor is it really an answer to my question as to how you will justify it to students who have missed their opportunities in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u30	I'd like to answer that. I believe that these students have also followed the right path in the past. I'll give you my own home front as an example. One of my children deviates from what we consider correct. Then one will still try to bring the other child on the right path and not condone that error.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u31	Colleague, so you are actually saying: 'I have one bad child, but that can't hurt, I will make sure that the other child stays on the right path'. That's a strange argument, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u32	No, I'm actually saying the opposite. I will reward the child who is on the right path and rebuke the child who is on the wrong road or on the wrong road and try to get him in the right direction even if he is 25 years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u33	That's the problem, colleague. I know that corporal punishments are no longer allowed, but fortunately, you have given up your proverbial stick behind the door. So you are actually saying, 'I hope he is heading in the right direction, but I really don't have any pressure to let him go the right way anymore'. That is just the point of this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u34	I will return to that proverbial stick behind the door, if I may finish my reasoning. The second point, therefore, was that we believe that there is a real change in the French Community and that it is believed by concluding that detailed agreement. Thirdly, we make it clear to the students that the amount that has indeed been wrongly created on the French-speaking side, thanks to the design of the new model of calculation, we have discussed it in committee and the correction mechanism will be absorbed. The calculation model not only includes the correction mechanism, but also takes into account current and future care needs and zooms in on current bottleneck disciplines. After all, there is a need to adapt for certain professions, such as general practitioners, children's and youth psychiatrists and geriatrics. Moreover, as Mr Muylle has also emphasised, it is a model in which each individual is asked within his own powers to develop instruments that will ensure adequate distribution of domestic and dental services throughout the territory. Fourthly, and here I come to the proverbial stick behind the door, we also make it clear to them that, despite the deletion of Article 69 in the draft law, the article is always contained in the agreement. That is often forgotten, but it has been said a number of times. In addition, there are also four control moments foreseen. I'll list them again. In May 2020 we expect a decree from the French Community, or at least a draft decree, which will organise the comparative entrance examination from the academic year 2023-2024. It was confirmed once again by my colleague that the Minister is working on this in the French Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u35	Mrs Vanpeborgh, you and the Minister often refer to this agreement, with all these conditions and signed by whom I know. What is annoying, however, is that we have never seen that document before. So we're just gonna have to rely on what you're saying here. Hence my question: can this document, which you seem to have at your disposal, be circulated throughout Parliament? Otherwise we can't talk about it either, I think, and it doesn't actually exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u36	Mrs Van Peel, I listened very carefully in committee to what the Minister said. So I repeat what the Minister said. I'll continue my list. Secondly, in September 2022, a recovery mechanism will be set up to determine the number of students, with a view to eliminating it in three years' time. Thirdly, at the end of November 2022, there will be a protocol or cooperation agreement that anchors the deperition key. Fourthly, last but not least, it will be checked whether the deperition formula is respected. That's what I heard on the committee. Should that not not be the case, consideration may still be given to re-introducing Article 69. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u37	The Minister did not say that, I said that. I shall return to something Mrs Muylle said. If one again enters the system of the federal quota attestations, then that suboptimal path is again followed and legal uncertainty is created. As Mrs Muylle said, it is always better to give ready-made wine at the beginning of the studies. One can of course say, and I look at Mrs Merckx, that we will simply open the doors. We're gonna let them flow in again, and we're not gonna do any more selection. I do not think that this is a favourable perspective, either for the patients or for the caregivers or for the students. There is absolutely a need for planning. Planning the medical supply is necessary to ensure the quality of health care, of the profession, but also of training. I do not think that we can achieve this without applying that selection. Selection and planning go together. To us, that is what people are now aware of on the French-speaking side. Mr Creyelman, by the way, we will not set up people, groups of people and not two linguistic communities against each other. I stress that the present and the past have made it clear to us that no society has ever improved. We are in favour of practical and concrete solutions and agreements that bring people or groups of people and language communities back together, even after 25 years. We do not want to stand still, we want to move forward. With all due understanding for the things of the past, we must move forward. We need to take that step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u38	Mr Vanpeborgh, I understand and suspect that you are putting up a number that says that we are turning people against each other. However, I do not quite understand how we are putting people against each other by asking them to do so, and other colleagues are doing so, namely that agreements made will be respected. However, if agreements are not respected, we in this House should have some kind of criticism. As far as that is concerned, I do not see how we would turn people against each other. In addition, you say you're looking forward. Again, you don't pick these words just like that, I think. However, we are also looking forward. It is also interesting to look back at the history and course of a particular dossier. That is what we have done, and that is why we have made our criticisms in this way. You have to keep that in mind. Trust is good, but control is better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u39	Madam President, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on this bill, I will begin with the issue of young doctors and dentists, but more generally the future of the organization of our health care. You may say, but sometimes opposition-led battles make it possible to move the lines. In this case, the example is telling, as we managed to push the government back on what it had planned. This project was the worst of the worst that can be conceived on the human level, not taking into account student investment for six, seven or eight years. You had decided to deprive them of their INAMI number even after their studies had passed. It was a real hostage taking the young graduates. We look forward to having you back on this famous article 69. I have still not understood how this has been passed twice at government level and voted twice by parliamentarians in committee. This concerns French-speaking students, but also potentially Dutch-speaking students. Vigilance has therefore made it possible to stop. That being said, a number of issues persist, as well as many impacts that cannot be denied. In essence, the winners of this agreement are the students who are now being trained. For us, it was a major principle that they have the guarantee, once graduated, to get an INAMI number. There is a second impact that needs to be taken into account. The facts are the facts. Today, you have decided on a number of INAMI numbers. We have already recalled them several times. But the reality, on the francophone side, is that in 2021 there are 1,200 medical students, and that you are planning a quota of 744. I would also like to make it clear, Minister, whether the agreement on this number of 744 concerns only doctors or whether it concerns doctors and dentists. According to some, I think they were probably telling the truth, it would concern doctors and dentists. In this case, this is a greater decline from the number of current students in medical and dentistry studies. We make a so-called overquota look out, with a loss formula that nobody says anything about. I'm curious to see what this loss formula will give. Compared to the current number of students, there is currently a significant decrease, which will be marked in the years to come. The argument of the quality of training is an important argument, but it is obviously not the training capacity that justifies this number of 744 for medical and dentistry students. This is therefore a step backwards. Finally, the third impact I wanted to mention is that of your choice to quota only those who are trained in Belgium, which represents a step backwards. I have already denounced him several times. Doctors and dentists trained at a European university outside Belgium are not subject to any quota, which remains particularly unfair for young Belgian graduates and also shows inconsistency with the argument that you put forward to justify such an approach. In my view, this downside discrimination for Belgians vis-à-vis other Europeans remains totally incomprehensible and unacceptable. The last part on this point is the absence of the possibility of re-evaluation up to 2028, in six years' time, which is very long. Until then, the covid, who has already shaken the caregivers' forces a lot, could reappear. Another point that concerns your agreement is that there is already a federal planning commission, community planning commissions, and Belgian evil, implacable, applies once again: we add a layer with an inter-federal body. Let me tell you that, in terms of the lack of governance, it cannot be said that it is a very positive and very promising model: we always add layers to discuss the same things at different levels, including, here, a distinction between a federal and inter-federal level. Recognize that this is inefficient in terms of governance. These are never just superimposed extra layers. For the rest, there's a little bit of everything. That is the least we can say for this bill'miscellaneous provisions'. I will try to be as synthetic as possible and avoid being lengthy, but I would just like to mention positive points in this bill and points that continue to pose a number of problems. First of all, in the positive aspects, I will mention two examples concerning the financial accessibility of patients, and first of all the abolition of the ban on paying third parties. This is a positive point even if I think, Mr Minister, that a little more boldness would be necessary in this area and that a wider, automatic application of the paying third party would be logical today – we always invoke the so-called extra cost that it would bring, but, in practice, it is not because a paid third party application is available that you will multiply the number of consultations with the caregiver. This seems to me to be an important issue in terms of accessibility. The other positive point concerns dental accessibility. A budget of EUR 45 million is foreseen. However, this issue dates back to November and I imagine, Mr Minister, that the concrete use of this EUR 45 million at the dental level has been clarified in the meantime. It would be very interesting to hear from you about this. The bill also includes some points that remain problematic for our group, not only for patients and health in general, but also for health actors. I will list them one after the other and explain them very quickly, starting with the problematic points for patients. This bill provides a legal basis not only for the existing Recip-e database, but also for its future expansion for referral requirements. This is in fact very clearly a decision of your government to use a subcontractor, in this case Smals, which will have the key to access the data. However, health and medical data are still particularly sensitive. Today, those who manage this component are in fact the providers, via the ASBL Recip-e. You choose not to involve healthcare providers who are, however, the real guarantors of respect for sensitive health data. I therefore continue to propose an amendment here to amend the scheme as you have planned. As the majority always tends to vote against the opposition, even when it is necessary – like adopting an amendment to Rule 69 – I still propose the following, minister. Your majority, despite what is often read in the press about parties of the majority who express themselves on health data, on the importance of not entrusting this to certain people who have certain potential conflicts of interest, signs here a sending to Smals. I want to call you, minister, in the new model that you have chosen, and about which I do not agree at all, to save at least the furniture, and avoid greater damage, to make this project evolve. Not in the law since it will be too late tonight, but in the way you're going to apply it, to integrate the Recip-e LSA into the list of managers of the new database alongside the FPS, INAMI and AFMPS. This seems essential to me in order to have additional security guarantees for patients and even more so for their medical data. As far as patients are concerned, I would like to dwell for a moment on a number of questions and disappointments which persist in any case on the aspects of euthanasia and palliative status. On the euthanasia side, you are rightly planning an allowance for a second opinion for a specialist doctor. It seems to me fundamental to be able to have the same approach for requests for euthanasia that intervene either at home or in nursing homes, since the end-of-life quality of the patient but also of the relatives absolutely requires consideration, in terms of giving time, in the same way for euthanasias that intervene at home or in nursing homes. The other part deals with palliative status. Of course, you provide a legal basis in your bill. You know it's a long-standing project that I've been carrying because it's really a matter for patients to be able to detect palliative needs much earlier, depending on the patient's reality and not necessarily linked to an end-of-life period. In this respect, if there is a legal basis here, you refer to a royal decree that will only be taken after a umpteenth study. We already have a lot of studies in this area. I am therefore afraid that the attitude of the government and the majority is not to want to move forward on this issue, probably for budgetary reasons. I think you are making a very bad calculation to postpone this again and again to later and to go back through new studies. This is not only a qualitative miscalculation for the patient but also a miscalculation of the budget. A palliative status introduced sufficiently early also avoids sometimes large and absolutely unwarranted costs with sometimes more invasive and, again, unwarranted examinations. As soon as possible, the anticipation of palliative status as soon as the needs of the patient so require must, in my view, be implemented as quickly as possible. Another problematic issue for patients and, more generally, for public health is the majority's rejection of a more ambitious position in the fight against tobacco. I had therefore tabled amendments which were all swept away by the majority. I shall now resubmit them to plenary. Whether it is the fight against the sale of tobacco in vending machines or mystery shopping, these are topics for which I have been fighting for years, but the process of federating majorities is so long! This approach is essential to protect minors and prevent them from starting to smoke. This essential fight is being fought by the various non-profit organisations involved in this field. Minister, other aspects are also problematic for health actors. As you know, hospitals have expressed repeated requests because of the administrative overload resulting from invoicing. If I am in favour of a whole part of the bill with various provisions regarding the transparency of the invoice addressed to the patient, a contrario, the way in which you integrate the breakdown between the manager and the doctors, with respect to certain remunerations, will complicate and, I fear, opacify the patient's bill. This information must go back to INAMI, I agree; but I fear that the presence of these considerations in the invoice will make it illegible. Moreover, mistakes could be made. As you know, part of it takes the form of retrocessions, while the rest is used to finance hospital projects as well as staff. The reality is that things are very different from one department to another, from one hospital to another, from one specialization to another. When several specialists will have to intervene for a patient, with different billing models, retrocessions and assignments, I don't know how, by looking at his bill, this patient will be able to find himself there. The priority for the patient is to have a much greater transparency a priori, but also a posteriori on the various aspects. It's fundamental. We therefore support this aspect, but not the burden. The hospitals have asked you for consultations. They offered you alternatives. But unfortunately they were denied by you and the majority. That's a shame! Many talk about relieving administrative burdens, but they are always and still only reinforced. This brings me to the last aspect of health actors, which I believe remains problematic. This is about the unilateral way in which you want to impose a very administrative model for the organization of general medical guards. I am talking about functional cooperation. You impose a single form of model while the cooperation in the field of general medical guards is working extremely well, with general practitioners who continue and wish to continue to pilot the organisation of the guards. This door should have remained open so that the general practitioners could indeed continue to run this organization. Imposeing a hyper-administrative model does not seem to me to be a choice, Minister, which adheres to the reality of the field and is likely to continue to mobilize general practitioners in something that is fundamental to patients, namely these permanently available guards. In addition, questions persist on the feasibility of self-control in the pharmaceutical sector. However, there may have been new developments since then. I hope that there is or will be a concertation because this self-assessment component of pharmacists must be feasible, feasible and correct, given the importance of not having an additional administrative burden. These are the points that I wanted to highlight today in a very synthetic way. There is good and at least good, which is why we will abstain from this bill. Finally, if you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, I would like to say a word from the nurses. Today is International Nurses Day – for another ten hours. It seems to me important to honour them here in Parliament, to remind them of the importance of their investment, the burden of their tasks and the vital importance of having an attractive plan for nurses. For me, this plan is one of the priority health issues. Six thousand posts are vacant. Up to 20% of hospital beds are closed due to a shortage of nurses. The current situation on the ground is very complicated. Forty percent of nurses and caregivers are reluctant to leave the profession. The number of nurses leaving after a career and an investment of about ten years is impressive. All of this, Minister, obviously affects patients, both because there is a delay in patient care, which penalizes them, but also because the mortality rate is worse because nursing is less important. The reality is that today Belgium has supervisory standards that are far below the European average. For all of this, I hope that the lines will be able to move for a plan of attractiveness of the nursing profession over the entire professional career. It was important today to give them a little bit of time in our debate on this bill with various health provisions. I hope that all parties in this area will be able to meet or, in any case, that a large majority will be able to come out one day for concrete acts rather than words and promises in the air.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for being here again at this late hour. It is true that we have an extremely important debate tonight. The vote that will take place marks the end of a saga, which probably explains that our debates have sometimes been quite heated. It all started six months ago, when you asked here for the urgency for your text, which was more than 1,800 pages long, when we had an extremely sustained pace of work with policy notes, budgets, etc. We quickly realized that this emergency was not justified, or very rarely. We see this with our vote this evening, since it comes, at the end of the day, six months later, despite the urgency. This situation has inevitably stirred up some frustration in us, as parliamentarians, but also and especially as democrats, concerned about a legislative work that is of good quality and meets the expectations of the field, especially in a sector that has suffered so much from this health crisis, namely health care. The frustration has been only more intense knowing that you have sought to "instrugate" this urgency in order to pass discreetly – that's what you were hoping for but it didn't work, as we have seen – a small article lost in this huge bill, a small article with extremely heavy consequences for medical students and our health care system in general. I am, of course, referring to this famous article 69, originally article 87. Thanks to the pressure of the opposition, but above all, it must be said, thanks to the mobilization and determination of the students, the clause was finally removed from your bill. That was decided the day before yesterday in the Health Committee. It must be recalled, Mr.Minister, that in the midst of a shortage of caregivers – I will come back because some of my colleagues are still challenging this rather glaring reality – you wanted to suspend a sword of Damocles above the heads of medical students, in any case better to fix it. The purpose was to allow INAMI to give a number to medical students who would be in possession of a certificate that would prove that they would be part of the federal quota. In other words, what was the purpose of this article? It was intended to give your government a legal basis for establishing an individual lock after successful studies and thus graduation. A real slap to the students who chose these studies by passion, by vocation, who have invested for six years, or even more, in studies that are known to be extremely difficult, students who could come in support of a nursing staff who is literally exhausted by an overload of work and an ever increasing shortage, far from the deplorable caricatures that were offered by the N-VA earlier. Cartoons, as I said earlier, which are groundless, because, yes, we lack doctors across the country. Hospitals lack psychiatrists. Unfortunately, Mrs Van Peel is not here right now, as in committee, to answer my questions. It was not there either at the hearings that we had in the special committee covid, probably because there was not enough community at that time. But I invite him to take part in the hearings that we will have in committee next week on mental health. We shall see at that time whether in Belgium we lack psychiatrists. We'll see if today it doesn't take five months to get an appointment with the psychiatrist. E.R.'s running out of pediatricians. Specialized centres lack geriatricians. The planning centres lack gynaecologists. All you have to do is go to the field to see him. Just talk to doctors and their patients to see how long it takes to get an appointment. Minister, at the beginning of our debate on your bill, you were trying to reassure us about your funny way of telling the federated entities how to work and achieve compliance with these famous INAMI quotas. You have done so by ensuring that Article 87, now Article 69, will only be activated in the absence of an agreement between the Federal Government and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, so that it will intensify filtering during the course of students' studies. At the time, the draft was to be voted at the end of December 2021 and the initial deadline for obtaining this agreement was 31 January 2022. This left the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the federal government barely a month to reach this agreement in the face of a problem that has arisen for years. It was a complete nonsense. Minister, my party has had to take on its responsibilities. Together with Mrs Fonck, as she also pointed out, we have tabled an amendment to delete this article, which your majority ended up doing five months later. Better late than never, as they say. If this has been possible, it is thanks to the opposition's referral of our amendments to the Council of State, but also and above all to the mobilization of thousands of students in both French and Dutch-speaking medicine. Nevertheless, during these long months, the students had to live with anxiety and anguish that should not have existed. These anxieties would not have existed if you had not written this article finally removed. During these long months, Minister, the students had to ask you about their future. They were worried. They must have sent you letters, petitions, requests for a meeting. They also organized a demonstration at the doors of your firm. "One step forward, three steps back," that's what the students shouted loud and clear when they were gathered on Rue de la Loi in front of your office. These three steps back, Minister, are this lack of listening, this lack of consultation, but also the pressure exerted by your office on these students, and therefore indirectly on the medical staff already in exercise, who need more than ever reinforcement in the field. The answers to these questions, I have come to look for them many times in committee, during our current debates, but also here in plenary. On these occasions, you never said anything about the new guidelines that would or would not be required to get this agreement, nor did you say anything about the future of this famous article 69. In other words, nothing to reassure, if only a minimum, these students in distress. It was then that on 29 April, after long months of negotiations, the federal government and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation announced in great pomp that they had finally reached an agreement on the INAMI quotas. It is true that this agreement contains positive points, in particular a new method of calculating quotas which would be based on the objectivation of the needs of the field and on the actual activity of the carers, the attention given to the offer of general practitioners, the fact that in 2028 the Wallonia-Brussels Federation would be increased to 744 INAMI numbers instead of the 505 currently in force or the fact that the current medical students would be assured of obtaining an INAMI number at the end of their course. I'll come back. However, these advances were only allowed for consideration and not for any consideration. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation now has an obligation to introduce an entry examination for access to medical studies, the procedure of which will have to be presented by 25 May next, according to what you said in committee. This contest, ladies and gentlemen, remains a very difficult pill to swallow for students. Why? Because if he has the merit of offering the guarantee, in any case temporarily, to medical students that they will receive their INAMI number at the end of their course, he nevertheless remains unfair. Not all pupils leave secondary school with the same background. The Fédération des Étudiants Francophones has rightly denounced the fact that the best, namely those who will succeed, but also those who will arrive in the best retained in this contest, will be those who come from privileged backgrounds. When I started my law studies at university, many of my classmates had not attended "good schools". They had a bad spelling. They had no knowledge of Latin. They were therefore absolutely not predestined to become lawyers. Some missed their first year once, twice. If there had been an entrance examination for law studies, they would have missed it on their own. Yet today, they have become excellent lawyers or magistrates because they have been able to catch up with their education, they have been able to develop all the qualities required for their profession. So I will never understand why, all the more so when we lack doctors, we break the vocation of young people who are promising. Why is the ability of these young people to become good doctors so denied? It should also be noted that this entrance examination is not the panacea. This is demonstrated by the Flemish example. Flanders, where it has been in force since 1997, first in the form of an entry examination, as is still the case in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and then in the form of a competition, had to allow overnumerary students to start their studies and therefore to practice medicine in fine. This is also reflected in the decision of the Minister of Education, Ben Weyts, in 2019, to authorize 1,276 medical students and 180 dental students to begin their university studies, a total of well above the quota set by the federal government. This is a decision that my colleagues at the N-VA have taken care not to answer. You have the last opportunity here to do this. Don't hesitate to seize it! Mr Minister, you did not say a single word in committee about the possible harmful effects of such a competition. Are you aware of the adverse consequences of the introduction of an entry examination? Will you never question the very principle of INAMI quotas in the current context? At the time, these quotas were justified because of too many doctors. Today, they would justify themselves to ensure the quality of training. But what guarantees good training is not a small number of students – this has never been demonstrated – but a sufficient number of doctors to be able to properly supervise them during their studies and during their internships. To return to the agreement, the majority today presents it to us as having finally brought a solution to the medical students, except that this agreement clearly states, as you have reminded the committee, in accordance with your government agreement, that the federal accountability mechanism that was removed by your amendment can be reactivated if the Federation does not create a resorption mechanism or if, despite it, quotas are "unreasonably exceeded". With this sentence, it seems that you are seeking to reassure the nationalist parties in this House. They should at least be reassured that we are not finally rid of this mechanism. They should be happy about it. Of course, as Mrs Hmente said earlier, increasing the INAMI quota by almost 200 units for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is not negligible. That's absolutely true. But the question here is not whether it is good, but whether it will be enough to address the shortage of doctors. How can we satisfy ourselves, as you have done, with these new quotas, when the work on planning needs on the ground has not yet begun, since the new inter-federal planning body has not even been created? What if this body, once in office, comes to the conclusion that these quotas are again insufficient? Would you come back to Parliament with a tote bill, in which a small section 69 would be hidden, so that students could be punished? Thus, a blackmail would be removed in the law and could be reinstated later, since it appears in the government agreement and in this famous INAMI agreement. You have still not explained to me what is meant by the notion of "unreasonable exceedance" of INAMI quotas, the use of which would give rise to the activation of this accountability mechanism. Similarly, who will be responsible for determining when the federal government will be able to intervene and activate this mechanism? There's still a blur. And this blur, Minister, creates real legal uncertainty and uncertainty for students. The sword of Damocles, which my party has been denouncing for months, is therefore by no means removed, contrary to what Mr Bacquelaine said earlier. On the contrary, she could come back to us like a boomerang. You will have understood that, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for my group, the deletion of section 69 is far from being a gift; it is ultimately a due. I would even say that you should never have taken the initiative of such a measure. For all these reasons, we are obliged to abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply. However, I will wait until after the Minister's reply. Maybe we still have a point of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u42	Madam President, I assume that I will first respond to what has been discussed in the first place and then make a number of other points. For the discussion on the planning of the medical offer, I will not repeat all the arguments that have been discussed in detail in committee. These are arguments about figures, among other things. Mrs van Peel, you have made one point that is correct, namely that I have been working on the dossier for a long time. It could be said that I am somewhat an ancian combatant. You referred to my statements when I was Minister of Education. In the 1990s, however, I repeatedly addressed the then Flemish Minister of Education, Luc Van den Bossche, who was also a party member, about the need to tackle medical planning in education through a filter at the influx. That is by far the most just thing. However, if we believe that, we must also take account of changes in the context. We then had debates on plethora. Today we are having debates on deficits and scarcity. This does not make planning less necessary, but it does explain why the Planning Committee is proposing a major expansion of supply. That's a good proposal. The political agreement is based on that proposal. That's the first thing I want to say about that. Madam President, as I said earlier, I will not go into all the arguments again. I just want to make two very general considerations that fit in with this kind of plenary debate. Firstly, if there are very fundamental political differences in a democracy and if there are also fault lines of a Community nature, then it is important to seek some common ground. Finding common ground means, among other things, trying to achieve a certain objectification of figures and relying on experts. What worries me increasingly, especially when I hear Mrs Van Peel, is the suspicion of the Federal Planning Committee, which is really based on nothing. Mrs Van Peel says that the Planning Committee has been politically manipulated and that this is not serious. I repeat what I said in committee and I shall rename the names. In a way, I am also addressing Mrs Merckx. Is someone like Jan De Maeseneer, who has approved the methodology of the Planning Committee, along with all the Flemings who were there, and who supports those conclusions, a bad Fleming, or is that someone, Mrs Merckx, who enjoys having too few general practitioners? Is it true with Jan De Maeseneer's profile that he believes that there should be few doctors and that we should save on health care? Do you believe that now? Is Dr Milan Roex a bad Fleming, Mrs Van Peel, who betrayed us by manipulating numbers, or is that someone, Mrs Merckx, who thinks that we should save mainly on health care? That kind of suspicions about a common conclusion reached by Flemish and French-speaking experts... These are connoisseurs of the field, people who are concerned with health care and committed to good health care. Those are people who come to a conclusion together, after deliberation. On this point, Mrs Van Peel says that everyone knows that this has been manipulated politically and Mrs Merckx says that they know that this is only about saving money. In this way we cannot have a debate. Mrs Van Peel, someone who does hear from you is Mr Brouwers, a very capable and important leader of young doctors. His vision leans close to yours. You listen to him a lot, I suppose. He is a non-voting member of this committee and critical of the agreement. On 28 February, the student magazine Veto criticises that the federal Planning Committee would use false parameters in the student magazine: "Brouwers, himself a member of the committee, disagrees. He stressed that the methods were scientifically substantiated and questioned every year within the committee. It's not wet fingering."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u43	I can give other quotes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u44	I tell you that he is critical of what is happening politically. I don't have a problem with that. It is someone who has the honesty to say that the work of the experts who sit together across the language line and look at figures is valid and not manipulated. If we are no longer able in this country or any other complicated democracy to recognise that people with different views may be able to come to the same objective numerical analysis together, how do we want to have a democratic debate? If it is said from the very beginning that the figures have been manipulated, how can we still have a democratic debate? Secondly, people keep saying here that they are all empty promises. Tweets are already being sent and individual members of the Chamber say they're not for an entrance exam. The essential thing, however, is that the Minister responsible for the French-speaking Community Government, Mrs Glatigny, formally confirms with the entire government of the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles behind her that there is a preliminary draft decree on the table of government by 25 May at the latest. In addition, she gives to the public all the details I have already given several times on the committee. She says, among other things, that a response measure will be applied, and therefore a correction should there be an overrun this year, because no competition has been held this year. She'll give you all the details. That is a formal declaration by a responsible minister of a government to which a parliament also exercises control. However, you keep saying here that you are all familiar with such talk. I wonder, Mrs van Peel, if you are ever involved in a state reform negotiation, would you also say that what is promised means nothing, that agreements mean nothing and that you do not believe anyone. That can't be done in a democracy. If a responsible minister of a government says that it will do so, it must be assumed, until further notice, that this is correct and credible. If that is not possible, I do not know how the N-VA in this country can ever be a serious partner in, for example, a discussion on a state reform with parties on the language border. If we cannot recognise that there is a serious commitment on which we are building, as I believe is happening here, then how can we ever make progress on such issues? You disappoint me very much and I am pessimistic about the role that your formation will play in this country in the future, if you continue to act in this way. We can only make progress and negotiate if we make, implement and implement agreements step by step. That's what we do. By the way, and I come to the conclusion on that point, because I do not want to repeat all the arguments we have to look forward to. There have been some very important reflections here in the debate where no one has stood still. For example, it is one thing to plan an offer globally in one region, but another thing to ensure that doctors are well spread. They must not all seek out certain urban centres and must also be active in the outlying areas. Mr Bacquelaine spoke about this. This requires measures. Those are the next steps. Let me give you another example. We expressly ask the Federal Planning Committee not only to do an international benchmarking in order to further develop the figures, but also to think further about what the desirable activity profile of doctors and dentists is. This must be done, inter alia, on the basis of what young people in these professions want. This is an extremely important social debate, because it is indeed evolving. The Planning Committee has developed scenarios for this in a relatively sophisticated way. We say that we need to think even more closely with the profession itself about what activity profile one wants. How many hours do you want to work? How does one see his life as a doctor? On that basis, we need to develop scenarios. I underline that to say that the interesting work can finally begin. That is why I say that the agreement is indeed historic. We're not there yet. The interesting and relevant work, if we are really concerned with the quality of health care, the quality of the medical profession and the quality of the training, is finally beginning. I say that because we are not done with this. However, I am not someone who wants to go in circles over and over again. I am someone, like the vast majority in the hemisphere, who wants to move forward. That's the idea. And I believe that can work. Is that certain? I don't know. But I believe that can work. Mrs Fonck pointed out here at some point in the debate that today it is the nurses' day. Indeed, today, May 12, just over 200 years ago, Florence Nightingale, who shaped the meter of nurse, was born. Indeed, we must conduct the debate on the basis of the real needs and needs of healthcare providers, not from all our premeditated dadas, hobby horses and old debates and discussions, which are passé. We must move forward. That is why I think it is an important agreement. I believe it will also be approved here. After that, there is a lot of work to be done, of course. Madam President, allow me now to comment on other items listed. I won't be too long, since it's pretty late. Let me start with a positive point. Mrs Fonck, you have indicated your ambitions with regard to tobacco. You have also proposed an amendment which I find interesting, but which I am proposing to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u46	Sometimes you have to be patient. I am going to be very concrete: firstly, as Mrs Muylle has pointed out, there is already – perhaps especially in legal terms – specific progress on the concept of tobacco supply to minors. Secondly, I also personally believe that the sale of tobacco products in automatons must be limited or even made impossible. We discussed it in the SIM. On the broad lines, there is political agreement on this, which is encouraging. However, I am still busy thinking with my colleagues on how to translate this into precise legal texts, and I am looking for a broad enough basis to do so. I therefore propose not to accept your amendment, but I think you need to go back to that point. I believe that an effective restriction must be found on the sale of tobacco products in automatons. It is necessary to define what an automaton is, but it is not exactly defined in your amendment. There is legal work to be done. I think there is some convergence on this point. I am less convinced, however, of what you have said – I am not going to repeat all the debate we have had in committee, with Mrs Muylle too – about the ASBL Recip-e and this "dangerous" database that you think will be established. I think these are unfounded fears.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u48	The ASBL Recip-e is indeed associated with their work, but it is not the manager of the data bank. I believe there is a need for division and division of labour and clear responsibilities at this level. So I am not going to repeat everything that is being done in the project, but it is a correct application of European GDPR legislation. A proper application with data managers is required. Three institutions (INAMI, AFMPS and Smals) are indicated for management. Recip-e is an ASBL whose vocation is the development of policy in this field, therefore strategy but not management. Secondly, and these were Mrs H annoyance's legitimate fears, I think it is important that we meet all the data protection requirements: the separation of decryption keys, the data bank. I'm not going to repeat everything I said. These are legitimate fears that you expressed during the debates in committee. I believe this is an absolutely secure and necessary operation. There is a kind of fear that I even have a little difficulty understanding. Mrs Fonck, concerning the complexity that you fear in the old Article 82 which has become 64, I believe, and the breakdown of the use of supplements which we want to make transparent, yes, it may be a little complicated, but I believe that in the context of the important debate on fee supplements, it is nevertheless important that managers be forced to be transparent vis-à-vis the public also with regard to the use of these supplements. It's important to me. I propose to leave this in the draft. On the functional partnerships, I have another element of answer. Allow me to reply to that point in Dutch. Without using it as an excuse, the functional partnerships were still designed by then Minister De Block. The general practitioner's environment is indeed a bit divided, there is discussion about it. However, I think that we should do what Mrs De Block has put in place, because I think that these functional partnerships make sense. I asked a working group led by Dr Frank Lippens, who has respect for all the actors, to think about it, also on its funding, and to seek a basis of support, in such a way that we can achieve it. I'd rather not return to the past by a complete review. It is now foreseen, let us try to work that out. Let us find a basis for support and also a method of financing in which everyone can agree. As far as the palliative status is concerned, I think a study is still useful. Madam President, I think I have quoted most of the elements. I do not want to go into further detail, as we have discussed this very often and very thoroughly in committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u49	Minister, I have listened to your reply. In fact, it comes down to what we have said so many times in committee. This draft law refers to transparency: transparency of funding and transparency about the cost of certain therapies. But you keep bumping into the same stone, the stone of non-transparency. If you have an agreement, put it on the table. My colleague just asked about it. Let us look at that agreement and we will be convinced. At least, we will be convinced that you have reached an agreement, that it exists. That is why we do not agree with what is in it. Minister, it is not possible for us to be confronted with the same situation over and over again. You say you've consulted, but then it turns out it's about a webinar where you communicated unilaterally. You say you have an agreement, but then it turns out it's about a promise from Minister Glatigny. You have just mentioned 'an individual Member of Parliament', but it is a member of both your coalition and the government of the French Community. So I'm not reassured. It is therefore a great pity that you do not come to this hemisphere with facts and that you do not simply say: that is how it is done. You are shielding with a number of people you say you do not know politically, but, Minister, I am from Ghent and we know the people you call very well. You know them better than that. So let's stop playing these games. Let's be honest. Each may preach his own ideology. We agree with that, but let us stop pretending that we are not playing politics while we are soaked and soaked. You make a promise and then you turn around. I stand by, you release your lever, your safety brake before you have any guarantee. I'm also surprised to hear you say you're going to start now. When an agreement is concluded, one usually already knows which direction one goes. However, you really do not have that direction today. You referred to the Nurses' Day. Minister, you must be careful not to linger in old techniques. Medicine is innovation and we must embrace it. Then I come to a number of points in this law that have not yet been discussed tonight. The first concerns the Federal Council for Pharmacists. I have already said it to you, but I should like to repeat it once again in this plenum. Multidisciplinarity is very good, but enter it for the other councils. Take it with you and make sure you apply it to these other councils too, if you truly believe in multidisciplinaryity. Last week we also discussed in committee the effective use of psychopharmaceuticals and their elimination. In this text you write about the effective use of psychopharmaceuticals. I suggested that you take the non-regulatory person with you. I can't hear any more of it. Perhaps you will give the same explanation as to Mrs Fonck, namely that you are okay with it but you are not going to go along with it. We'll hear from you once in a while. Minister, there are also good aspects to this text, but you have done a great deal to put the Flemish medical student, the Flemish doctor and the Flemish medical associations on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u50	Dear Minister Vandenbroucke, I thought that we should believe in responsible politicians who make promises and want to move forward. You're asking for trust. I believe in people who make promises and I would like to trust them, so I have a simple question: when will you and your government deliver the bill to defederalise healthcare to the Council of State? That's a promise that's literally on page 68 of your coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u51	The answer is very simple: I cannot put a precise date on that. What kind of question is that? Mr Loones, it is in the coalition agreement and we will implement the coalition agreement. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u52	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u53	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2320/18) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2320/18) The bill has 149 articles. The draft law has 149 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u54	• 46 • Valerie Van Peel cs (2320/19)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u55	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u56	The next item is the election for the appointment of four effective members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services (Committee P). The next item is the vote on the appointment of four working members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision (Committee P). The chairman except, Committee P comprises as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. With the exception of the president, the P Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. Nominations were announced in plenary on 23 September 2021. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 23 September 2021. By e-mail of 14 February 2022, Ms. Sara Segaert withdrew her candidacy for the effective membership of Committee P. By e-mail of 14 February 2022, Ms Sara Segaert withdrew her candidacy for the mandate of working member of the P Committee. By e-mail dated March 29, 2022, Mr. Hughes Brulin withdrew his candidacy for the effective and alternate members of Committee P. By e-mail of 29 March 2022, Mr Hughes Brulin withdrew his candidacy for the mandates of working and alternate member of the P Committee. On 3 May 2022, the Monitoring Committee of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R heard from the five candidates for effective membership. Julie Chanson reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on May 11, 2022. On 3 May 2022, the Committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I heard the five candidates for the mandates of working members. Ms Julie Chanson reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2022. Since there are as many candidates as there are mandates to be filled for effective members of the French-speaking community, we must not vote for them. Since there are as many candidates for the mandates of a French-speaking Member as there are to go, we should not proceed to a vote on them. In accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I therefore declare elected Messrs. Antonio Caci and Vincent Stragier, effective members of Committee P. For the purposes of Article 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare Mr Antonio Caci and Mr Vincent Stragier, working member of the P Committee. Since the Chairman of Committee P is Dutch-speaking, the Vice-Chairman is French-speaking. Since the president of the P Committee is Dutch speaking, the vice-president is French speaking. By e-mail of May 12, 2022, Mr. Vincent Stragier withdrew his candidacy as Vice-President. By e-mail of 12 May 2022, Mr Vincent Stragier withdrew his candidacy as Vice-President. Pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, Mr. Antonio Caci is therefore proclaimed Vice-Chairman of Committee P. For the purposes of Article 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Antonio Caci is therefore appointed Vice-President of the P Committee. We must make the appointment of two effective Dutch-speaking members. We must proceed with the appointment of two working Dutch-speaking members. The list of candidates was distributed on the benches under No. 2678/001. The list of candidates was distributed to the banks under No. 2678/001. Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. The ballot paper is invalid if you mention more than two names. The ballot is invalid if you enter more than two names. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Ms. Nawal Farih and Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure are appointed to strip the ballots. Mrs Nawal Farih and Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure are appointed to record the votes. I suggest that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in room 3, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. I propose that the ballots be counted in Room 3, in the presence of the voters. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. I invite the voters from the names to call.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u57	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u58	The mandate of the special commission to examine the independent state of the Congo (1885-1908) and the colonial past of Belgium in the Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), its consequences and the follow-up to it, ended on 17 July 2021. (DOC 55 1462/001) On 17 July 2021, the mandate of the Special Commission in charge of the investigation of the Congo Free State (1885-1908) and the Belgian colonial past in Congo (1908-1960), Rwanda and Burundi (1919-1962), the impact of this and the consequences to be given to it. (DOC 55 1462/001) The plenary meeting on 1 July 2021 extended the mandate until 17 July 2022. The plenary session of 1 July 2021 extended the mandate until 17 July 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2022, I propose that the term of office be extended until 31 December 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 May 2022, I propose that the mandate be extended until 31 December 2022. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u59	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill on various urgent provisions relating to the fight against money laundering, No. 2669/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the fight against money laundering, No. 2669/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The reasons for the urgency are as follows at the request of Minister Dermagne: following two decisions of the Constitutional Court, provisions of the Act of 18 September 2017 were annulled. The Court maintained the effects of the provisions annulled until 31 March 2022. The urgency is therefore justified by the fact that the two judgments of the Constitutional Court did not provide for a deadline for the legislator to adapt the legislation and that, in the absence of the annulled provisions, we are no longer in line with the transposition of the European Union and Council Directives of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. The legal vacuum must therefore be rectified as a matter of urgency, on the one hand for the consistent application of the anti-money laundering preventive law and on the other for compliance with European law. This legal vacuum is also far-reaching in that, since 1 April 2022, uncertified accountants and tax advisers will no longer be subject to any anti-money laundering monitoring. This should therefore be urgently addressed for the security of the financial system and provide the legal basis for the organisation of control by the economic inspection services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u61	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u62	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u63	Madam President, we have been informed that Mr Goedele Liekens and Mr Prévot cannot be present. A vote was therefore made with Mr Valerie Van Peel and Anneleen Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u64	Of which act. [[There is also good news from Mr Prévot:]] He's become a father!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u65	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u66	Yes [[109]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u67	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u68	Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u69	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u70	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u71	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u72	Yes 95 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u74	Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u76	Yes 75 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u78	Yes 77 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u79	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u80	Yes 77 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u82	Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u83	Vote on Amendment No 12 by François De Smet cs in point I.2. (1069/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by François De Smet cs at point I.2. (1069/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u84	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by François De Smet cs to insert a point I.3(n). (1069/8) Vote on Amendment No 13 by François De Smet cs to insert a point I.3(n). (1069/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u85	Yes 13 Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u86	Vote on Amendment No 14 by François De Smet cs in point II.1. (1069/8) Vote on Amendment No 14 by François De Smet cs at point II.1. (1069/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u87	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 116 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by François De Smet cs to insert a point II.3(n). (1069/8) Vote on Amendment No 15 by François De Smet cs to insert a point II.3(n). (1069/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u88	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by François De Smet cs on the title. (1069/8) Vote on Amendment No 16 by François De Smet cs on the inscription. (1069/8) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u89	Yes 13 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u91	Yes 96 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u93	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u95	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u96	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u97	Yes 118 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u98	Voters 134 Stemmen White or invalid 2 Blank or invalid Valid 132 Geldig Absolute majority 67 Perfect majority M. Herman Daens a obtenu 132 voix. Mr Herman Daens received 132 votes. M. Peter De Smet a obtenu 2 voix. Mr Peter De Smet received two votes. Mr. Joris Lagrou obtained 130 votes. Mr Joris Lagrou received 130 votes. Mr Herman Daens, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed as an effective member of Committee P. Since Mr Herman Daens was given the absolute majority, he was appointed as a working member of the P Committee. Mr Joris Lagrou, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed as an effective member of Committee P. Since Mr Joris Lagrou was given the absolute majority, he was appointed as a working member of the P Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u99	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ortwin Depoortere to delete Article 4. (2495/9) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Ortwin Depoostere to omit Article 4. (2495/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u100	Yes [[39]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Ortwin Depoortere to insert an Article 4/1(n). (2495/9) Vote on Amendment No 9 of Ortwin Depootere to insert an article 4/1(n). (2495/9) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u101	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u103	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u104	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sophie Rohonyi cs on article 2. (2645/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to Article 2. (2645/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u105	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u107	Yes 91 Yes No. [[38]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u108	Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck on Article 48. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 48. (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u109	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 48 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 48 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 53/1(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 53/1(n). (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u110	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck on article 64. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 64. (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u111	Yes 7 Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 64 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 64 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert an article 68/1(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert an Article 68/1(n). (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u112	Yes [[38]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Valerie Van Peel cs to insert an article 68/1(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Valerie Van Peel cs to insert an Article 68/1(n). (2320/19) Amendment No 46 is exactly the same as Amendment No. 43. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 69/1(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Sofie Merckx to insert an Article 69/1(n). (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u113	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 69/2(n). (2320/19) Vote on amendment No 45 by Sofie Merckx to insert an article 69/2 (n). (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u114	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 144. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 144. (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u115	Yes 56 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 144 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 144 adopted. Vote on Amendment No 38 from Catherine Fonck to the deletion of Article 145. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 145. (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u116	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 145 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 145 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 146. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 146. (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u117	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 146 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 146 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 147. (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Catherine Fonck to delete Rule 147. (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u118	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 147 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 147 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 150(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 150(n). (2320/19) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u119	Yes [[39]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 151(n). (2320/19) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 151(n). (2320/19) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u120	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u122	Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u124	Yes 116 Yes Non 15 No. Abstensions 5 Abstentions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 977/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 977/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u126	Yes 74 Yes Non 54 No. Abstensions 2 Abstentions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 2450/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. So 2450/1 was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-12-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip180x.u127	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 May 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, 19 May 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
