ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u3	I propose that you devote one discussion to these five bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these five draft laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u5	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u6	Madam President, I would like to return to the debates we had in the Committee on Defence on the five draft laws before us. Madam Minister, we are generally following the government's ambition to improve staff status and strengthen, inter alia, the wage framework and a number of other conditions. I guess there's some good stuff in there. At the beginning of the legislature, just before the government started, a large resolution was adopted on what we need to do with Defence personnel and human resources policy in order to ensure that more military forces are attracted by Defence. That initiative came from the PS and we supported it. We approved that resolution and I defended it at the time, even though it came from the PS. There is certainly no discussion about that. We also support your ambition, Madam Minister, to use this legislature as a priority for better staffing. The five draft laws also fit into that framework, so you can count on our support for most of the draft laws. I'll go over them for a minute. The draft law on the exclusion of risks to balance-of-payments insurance remembers everyone in Flanders as the file of The Fly, after Xavier Waterslaeghers perhaps the best-known military in Flanders thanks to a programme on working for Defense on Flemish television. He has put his strong shoulders underneath and asked for a better arrangement for soldiers who are at risk of death when, for example, they go to foreign operations. As a result, they suddenly have to pay a very high premium for, among other things, debt balance insurance. That was considered very unfair and unjust. There has been a kind of movement in the military centre to raise this political issue and to find a solution to it. In the previous legislature, a number of ministers had already supported this. I am thinking of Mr Reynders and Mr Goffin, who then negotiated with the insurance sector. They weren't quite finished at the time, because it wasn't clear what was going on with hospitalization insurance, life insurance, debt balance insurance and so on. I am very pleased that you have completed that process, Minister, and I am very pleased that you have ensured that, in consultation with the social partners in the defence sector, the insurance sector and the military themselves, there is a very good solution, so that individual soldiers, including our special forces, who go on operation and participate in high-risk activities, can still benefit from insurance and do not have to pay higher premiums. I think that is only fair. Special forces or elite soldiers of the Belgian army who have to carry out an assignment in Afghanistan or Syria, for example, have to pay more for their insurance, because they may be killed. That's unfair. It goes without saying that the insurance company pays out. That bill No. 2540 can count on the support of the N-VA. A second bill No. 2541 concerns the amendment of a number of different provisions for the status of candidate soldiers in the armed forces' active framework. It concerns a whole series of rather technical changes: first, parole adjustments, second, exemption adjustments and third, exemption adjustments. These are all adjustments that the N-VA supports. You've already announced it, and they're beneficial to the Defense Department. We support this, including the restrictions you introduce for career breaks, the extension of exemptions, the attempt to stop attrition and so on. You can count on our support for this. A further evaluation report on attrition would be submitted to the Chambers Committee. The latest figures would not be good, but you wanted to clarify them, because we should not base ourselves on one figure. I noted the numbers on attrition: 12% of the military left in 2020 after a few months. By 2021, that would be 22%. In your view, we need to study this more closely and we need some kind of global evaluation on how to interpret that figure, because we did not work with one recruitment period last year, but with two recruitment periods. That makes a difference. We await that result. If there's a report, we'll look at the situation and see what we can do together to improve them. A third draft law, document No. 2046, concerns the amendment of Article 66 of the Act establishing the Staff Regulations of the Military and Candidate Forces. We have discussed this for a long time, in particular the pool of available people, in order to make an evaluation. Madam Secretary, you are assuming the shortage of first evaluators to evaluate the military and candidate soldiers within the units. In order for the evaluations to continue to work, the number of evaluators needs to be increased. You will now also be able to evaluate this extension for the judge officers, but also lower level C officers, provided that a perfecting course is completed. I understand the problems we are facing. It cannot be denied that you have too few people for the evaluations. With an increase in the number of evaluators, I have no problem. However, you have formulated an ambition for the units that are not complete now. How many units in the Belgian Defence Department are at present complete? That is exceptional, because the large part is not complete and is not filled either. You have the ambition to fill the units. After a period in which you recruit a lot of people, I think we should go back to the philosophy that only chief officers can evaluate. So I have serious reservations about how you increase the number of evaluators. I understand a temporary increase in the number of people, the number of degrees that an evaluation can do within the Defense Department, given the current impossible situation, but I wonder why it is not just a temporary measure. What you are proposing in the draft law is final, but I do not think that is a healthy situation. Defence is still one of the few hierarchical organizations within Belgium. Hierarchy within Defense, every defense in the world, is needed. Without hierarchy, there's anarchy and an army usually doesn't work so well. It makes sense to say that senior petty officers do the evaluation within the unit. If one says that there are too few senior officers to do all that, that one is going to temporarily ensure that other judges and possibly persons at level C can also do the evaluation, then I can live with that. Make that temporary, though. What you are proposing is final. I have a problem with that. That is why I will not be able to approve this, I will abstain. That's not because I'm against it, but why isn't that just made temporary? Put in that the King can determine, through KB, to stop that. Why don't you delegate this to the King? Then the Secretary of Defense, you will not be, because you will not have this legislature resolved, it will be a few years from now, through KB, making an adjustment to go back to the logic in which the Senior Petty Officer does the evaluation within a unit. I think this is a logic that we all support. You must be careful of peers who evaluate each other. That's not a healthy situation in a unit. Surely it makes sense that the chief evaluates and not the military in the unit. It doesn't work that way anywhere. That's very bizarre. So I understand it as a temporary measure, but I really do not understand it as a definitive measure. Perhaps you could explain a little more about that. A fourth draft law is No. 2544. This concerns various provisions relating to the training of professional soldiers of the active framework and to the termination of the professional tests for the training of senior candidate officers of level A. Basically, you're saying that all senior officers, so from Major's point of view, have always had a very strict exam and that you're gonna stop doing that. Those professional trials become a kind of permanent evaluation. You're gonna quit those real professional trials. You're going to make it some kind of continuous formation, an evaluation over a year. I understand that, but of course it is, and I also made that remark in committee, that the exam to become a senior officer is super difficult. For that, we really need to study very hard. In itself, I'm behind that. A major in the Belgian army must be really top, that seems to me a healthy principle. Now it's going to be some kind of permanent evaluation. Why not, but we will have to make a thorough assessment over the next few months and years. It's a bitter pill for the people who had to take that exam. In fact, our Flemish Minister of Education tends to introduce more exams. At Flemish level, we move towards a general exam at the end of the sixth grade, across all schools. For the first time there would be a general learning test at the end of primary school, such as in France or the Netherlands, in order to better orient the student. So we're just going to a system in Flanders with more tests, at specific times, instead of just the permanent evaluation. And here we would make the reverse movement. I am not radically opposed to this, but it needs to be properly evaluated. The difference with the trend in Flemish education policy is remarkable. About Bill No. 2542 on the recruitment of military personnel, finally, has been the most to do. It concerns the elimination of primary school certification requirements. I have a lot of questions about that. Having a certificate of primary education is kind of basic to me. You say that when you join the Defense Department, all these skills are tested: reading, writing, answering an e-mail and so on. There is therefore no need for a certificate of primary education. I can understand that argument, I hope that the tests will be done properly, but note very well the concerns of the N-VA group about the quality loss when entering the defence sector. We had a debate on the temporary abolition of physical tests for the sake of corona, while the police continued to do so. Remember the beep test where Annelies Verlinden was present. She's had a lot of problems with that. At DOD, there were no physical tests. That's weird. I hear from people at the Department of Defense that it is not obvious to make good volunteers or soldiers of the people entering. I'll be careful when I say it. I don't understand the finality of this. How many people do we want to reach who do not have a certificate of primary education? How many people don't apply to DOD because they don't have a certificate of primary education? Do we really want to attract these people? I have serious reservations about this. We take note of the answers to our questions in committee, but we remain critical and we continue to have serious questions. There has also been a lot to do in the media about this. Jan Segers wrote a funny piece about this in Het Laatste Nieuws, pointy and ironic. We will not vote against it, we will abstain, but we still have a number of questions to ask. I would like to hear answers from the government or colleagues on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u7	Mr Lacroix has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u8	Madam President, no, I didn't want to intervene. If I'm registered, I don't know who signed me up. It's unknowing of my own free will. I'm the Richard Virenque of politics. Very briefly, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Theo Francken for his very nuanced position. I think the minister is really on the right track. The fact that Theo Francken announces that the N-VA will abstain on these texts is a significant political fact. I think it is also a major significant political fact to see this constructive side. At the beginning of the legislature, it was not simple. I really believe that the work of the Members, the work that I acknowledge to Theo Francken and his colleagues, and to other members of the Defence Committee, the availability of the Minister and her cabinet and the explanations that have been provided, all allow us to change positions, including those of the minority. I see that. Secondly, in a very general way, in all the texts submitted to us by Minister Dedonder, we are moving towards both a quantitative and a qualitative improvement in the status of the military. I'm holding on to one thing. We have seen for years that the status of the member may be inadequately adapted to the realities of today. That is one of the reasons, but the point should really be nuanced, and that would require lengthy debate. Re-adapting the status of military personnel, providing other benefits, other career opportunities, making certain rules more flexible, while maintaining a level of demand and quality, is a way to combat the phenomenon of attrition. It means recruiting and keeping these people. Initially, some of them have no title, no certificate, but they have this will to commit themselves to the country, to safeguard the values of freedom, equality, fraternity and solidarity that are Belgium's values in the broad sense. Giving this opportunity to those who want to work, who do not have a diploma at the base, but who in the army will complete a career path that they may not have completed in another sector, is a social elevator role. This will, it seems to me, make it possible to reconcile the army with the nation in the broad sense of the word. There you go. You asked me if I had anything to say. I was surprised to have been registered. My colleague André Flahaut reminded me that I was. I had a few notes in case the debate was a little hot. So far, I can see that it is not. I hope that this will continue. I would be very happy to hear from colleagues so constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u9	Madam President, something beautiful is blooming between the PS and the N-VA, but that is completely aside. Madam Minister, it is not always a problem when a Flemish Interester takes the floor in this Chamber. Today is such a day. We welcome all these draft laws. Imagine: we are pleased with the design of the PS. So those days exist. We are pleased that steps are being taken to make the unnecessary administration more flexible and that measures are being taken to make defence more attractive. In this way, we can increase recruitment and retention, reduce staff turnover and thus increase staff numbers. However, we are still a little critical of some of your draft laws and certain elements in them. The proposal to amend Article 66 will be constructive. A reduction in the administrative burden for the evaluators of the military is at issue. In the meantime, everyone has come to that realization. It is not strictly necessary for us to have completed a master officer's sub-category course if we have obtained the petty officer's sub-category. It would seem plausible to evaluate military personnel. Such staff may also be used in the evaluation to reduce the administrative burden on those evaluators. You will therefore not be surprised that we will approve this bill. It is quite logical that we should support the draft law on balance-of-payments insurance. Mr Francken has explained this very well. I cannot imagine that anyone would take a different view of this design. That would be all too crazy for words. The government has to cover the balance of debt insurance of military or civilian employees who die during the euphemistically expressed "risky" activities associated with their profession. It is right that the families of these people, who have literally given their lives in the service of our security, should be compensated by the country they have defended. Madam Minister, the logical conclusion is that we will also support this bill. The draft law on the status of our candidate soldiers seems to us to be useful in increasing recruitment in the defence sector, increasing the retention of the candidate soldiers and reducing the attrition. Our group believes that it is a good idea to stop punishing military personnel by depriving them of their degree if, due to unforeseen circumstances or certain things with a serious impact on their lives, they are no longer able to function. We also see no reason to deprive a military reclassified to another position in the same category of personnel at the same level if he does not succeed in that training. As far as the exemptions are concerned, it is logical for us to seek a smooth connection with the knowledge already acquired, with the competences of the candidate military in their previous training in order to be able to recruit them more quickly to Defense. All these elements can help with a rapid increase in our workforce. So, Minister, three out of three: we also support this bill. Allow me to get a little more critical, a little more skeptical. I'll start with the good news. We welcome the fact that the Minister is examining the possibility of making the study conditions for candidate volunteers more flexible, as we urgently need to expand our tight volunteer reserve. It is precisely for this reason that these study requirements should not be too strict. These are people who volunteer for our security, not professional employees and military workers paid by the Defense Department. However, we remain critical and vigilant for a possible reduction in the rate by removing the requirement to have a certificate of primary education. So let us remain strict enough about the evaluation of candidate volunteers and their required knowledge and skills. We can also expect something from the volunteers in the Defense Department. We also support, of course, the removal of the gap, which means that, as a candidate for military training, it is still possible to register as an applicant without success in basic training. In this way, it would be possible to avoid the waiting time for applicants. This procedure is not only logical but fair. We would have liked to have given this draft the first sign of doubt, because there is certainly a need for flexibility and an extension of our reserve. But we are also not blind to the fact that, despite the noble ambition, the expectations and qualifications of new volunteers may be reduced. That is why we will abstain from this draft. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the training courses for professional officers. Madam Minister, we welcome the proposal for measures to increase the attractiveness of Defence, to improve career flexibility, to improve work-life balance, to balance work and private life in Dutch. It makes sense, because it is urgently necessary to increase the number of employees. People are still flirting with that critical border, that critical threshold of 25,000 soldiers. This is something that does not facilitate the core tasks of the defence industry, not to say that they are at risk. Once again, we would like to point out that the desire to attract more people quickly must not lead to some sort of lat reduction. We would like to repeat this once again, and we would like to stress it once again. We support any constructive measure, such as speeding up the abolition of administrative procedures, but when it comes to the necessary competences, we want to remain vigilant. We ask ourselves questions, like Mr Francken on behalf of his party, in the disappearance of these professional tests. Indeed, it is perhaps not necessarily a bad thing to use a permanent evaluation instead. However, when it comes to modernising the necessary competences, the question could be asked as to what it is intended to do. Are the classical competences for senior officers no longer of any importance? Or is it going to be weakened? If the conditions for the registration of continuing training are to be modernised, will we not, Madam Minister, somehow miss the opportunity to separate the chaff from the chaff and thus implicitly lower the bar? That's something I'm wondering, colleagues. Madam Minister, despite the fact that we want to give every opportunity to the attractiveness of the careers and the increase in flexibility within our army, that idea of a lat reduction is still haunting my mind a little bit. That is why we will abstain from this draft. Madam Secretary, you have three approved drafts. You have abstinences on two other drafts. So you cannot complain today about the Flemish Interest, about our constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, as many of my colleagues have said, these five bills have an identical purpose, which is also that of this Parliament, that of recruiting military personnel - our Defence needs it. This package is part of a broader policy led by our government, which is to upgrade military status, upgrade their wage benefits, implement measures for families and reduce home-to-work distances. Let us be clear, these measures, like the wage plan, have been a promised catch-up for many years. Others are novel, such as today's projects, which allow the State to intervene in order to cover, in the context of mortgages made by military or civilian personnel, certain risks excluded from the insurance balance remaining due in the event of death by reason of the service. From now on, the Minister and Assuralia will enter into a framework agreement to compensate for the risk of death of a member or civilian, whether on duty or by service in the course of a number of activities at risk. This state intervention actually covers the member's family residence. These completed measures must enable us to achieve a number of goals, including reaching the 29,000 Defence personnel by 2030, including 3,800 civilians. Annually, they will also enable us to achieve the objective of recruiting 2,500 military personnel, which today represents the maximum of our absorption capabilities, and gradually, from 2026 onwards, the annual recruitment of 2,800 military personnel. Minister, you have the chance to deliver a four-fold positive message. First, the army recruits, and in addition it offers good jobs, better paid, with a solid status in the medium term or a full career with bridge clauses to the public service, which we had already initiated under the previous legislature. It recruits young people, as the average age at Defence must reach 5 years to reach 35 years by 2030. It also hires technicians, because new equipment requires increasingly sophisticated technical skills. This has been recalled several times in committee. In addition, the technicality of the new equipment will favour civilians as well as non-commissioned officers. The last aspect - but not least - that I wanted to highlight this afternoon is the formations that Defence will offer to advance in the military hierarchy. Indeed, it is an excellent social elevator. However, minister, if the benefits of your new measures are to be appreciated, you absolutely must not rest on your laurels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u12	Of course! You think so. I'm not saying you're doing it, but you don't have to. In short, I think you should be encouraged even more. We must indeed "sell" these measures. As I often say, it is important to communicate with the unions to make them well known. This is a weak point, because the positive initiatives in terms of hiring and career opportunities in the army are too often overlooked and do not find enough echo among those who, tomorrow, could aspire to a career in Defence. In addition, further work is needed to attract cybersecurity specialists. The Reform Movement regularly recalls that it wishes to do so. Moreover, several bills from my group - one of which was signed by me - have already been introduced to that effect. In addition, a unique private-public legal status needs to be developed, a little hybrid and innovative. In this way, it will be possible to work in a limited number of defence companies at the outset, as well as in National Defence. The aim is thus to allow some to offer their services to companies as well as to the army. More competition between employers who need the same skills! In view of the narrowness of the labour market for certain advanced skills, certain divisions must be overcome in order to demonstrate legal and statutory imagination. Another path is to continue to develop the reserve with the possibility of moving more easily from reservist status to career military status, for example. All these tracks must be explored boldly in order to attract to the army the best profiles. Madam Minister, your strategic vision, which we are now increasingly looking forward to, will be marked by the return, unfortunately, of war, and that of high-intensity conflicts. Conflicts where the technological component, the intelligence of combat, the responsiveness to strategic surprises will dominate. Conflicts where the soldier will be increasingly linked to business-led R&D. A dangerous world, but with many professional opportunities at National Defence. It is this modern, forward-looking army that we wish to support. My group and I will, of course, without any surprise, Madam Minister, support the proposals and the projects. Mrs De Block, I am sure we will support all the projects discussed this afternoon. Here's what closes my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen's remarks were not always the same, but the conclusion or what was said was largely the same. In fact, additional legislation is needed to work on the status of military. That was more than necessary at the time you wanted to recruit 10,000 new soldiers to this legislature. You can't do that by leaning back. Well, then, business must be done. Citizens should also increase to 15% by 3,000 citizens by 2025. An important issue in this was, of course, the increase in wages. That is an aspect of the work, and certainly not the one that solves everything, but it is an important step that the Minister has already taken. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very close to this issue. Defence must be able to adapt as a modern employer to modern society and have the tools to do so. Perhaps the passion and commitment of the soldier has not changed so much as from 15 or 20, 25 years ago, but the circumstances in which he has to do that work have changed. He's in a family today where the work-private balance is much more sought after than before. The family compositions have also changed today. Our soldiers also do not escape new composite families or single-parent families. It is important that we also make adjustments in this area. I asked you a question yesterday about the four-day week you are investigating. That kind of thing can all help make those soldiers feel better at work. It is also the intention of your approach to spread those barracks better, so that there is a barracks in each province. That way, people can work closer to home. These are all things that can contribute to this. Mr Francken explained the legislative proposals very clearly. I will certainly not repeat that. The legislative proposals contain a number of answers to a number of societal questions that are present today and are part of your People Our Priority or POP plan. Recruitment is crucial. There too, you are showing some realism. It is a pity that not everyone leaves school today with a degree. Hopefully, a general learning test will help, but I fear that even in that case, people who do not have a diploma will still plunge into society. That must not, of course, be the reason to stop offering people opportunities later. I think and hope that there are enough checks-and-balances in the system today to ensure that if you recruit someone like that, you can see at some point whether it is useful and valuable to invest in the training of recruits. That was always the idea I had when criticizing the physical tests. In my opinion, there are enough checks-and-balances in the system and there are enough moments when someone who would have escaped them in corona times encounters themselves. I don't feel like serious things went wrong there. After the recruitment, the people are on board and they follow the training and then it is important that we treat them correctly. The discussion about insurance is only logical and normal. It cannot be possible for a person performing a foreign mission to have financial consequences thereafter. I think this is a very correct approach. What you are presenting today is actually the foundations of a house as it should be in the 22nd century, but it is also important what is happening in that house. That is why I would have liked to have introduced a resolution on social security in committee today. It is good that you build foundations on which the soldiers can move, but it is also important that they feel safe and good in that house. We all know moments when things go wrong between people. In the resolution that we will deal with later, I will make a number of requests to make sure that we can also work on it. We'll never be able to sell that completely, but I think we can work on that. This is a nice addition to the work that you are presenting here today and which our group will be delighted to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u14	Don't worry, Madam President, I'm not going to blow the mood. To see so many meeting points on the defence aspects, it deserves to be stressed. But as always, when there is an agreement on something, the press is completely absent. It would be enough to make invigorating statements on other examples that concern the Department of Defense, the press would probably be on the balcony. But it's missed! That's why I'm intervening, too. First of all, I think we owe it to us to address the human aspects of Defence. Staff was, I believe, one of the minister's priorities. It was first recalibrated pecuniaryly. A first since 2003 - I remember it by the way! After this upgrading, an interest was expressed for families and veterans. I would also point out that this morning, in committee, two amendments introduced by the N-VA and Mr Franken were accepted to integrate into one of the concerns and the veterans and their families upon their return from mission and thereafter. It's fundamental. The military has a difficult job. Their families are also affected. When people are sent on a mission, think of the children who ask their father, "Where are you going?" And they see people fighting on their TV screens. We can explain that we are not in Ukraine, but in Romania, for them, we are close to war, which gives rise to concerns. It can also have an impact on the psychology of children in school because they worry about their father. There are also companions or companions who are experiencing these difficult situations. We had a concern to integrate civilians. There are also civilians in Defence who work at the SRMS and are also deployed in operation at some point in time; they also deserve attention to their status and how they experience the situations and consequences of dramatic events. When we were in Kosovo, we talked about Balkan syndrome. Serological cells were created to ensure that military personnel should not defend themselves against insurance companies in order to prove a link between outside missions and the illness affecting them. There had been no Balkan syndrome, but the serotheque had been created. As far as insurance is concerned, it should also be recalled that Defence has set an example, since Foreign Affairs followed Defence at some point. There was nothing planned for diplomats, but the Defence set an example. I would also like to highlight, Madam Minister, an important element. These reforms that you put on the table gain the approval of the trade union organizations as well as the staff. I think this is the right way to move the process forward. With respect to evaluations, Defence is a department where an ongoing evaluation is conducted. There is also ongoing training. This highlights new procedures that are never definitive. In Defence, it's like in politics and in other areas, it's always what we don't expect to happen. Finally, what is final is never only temporary. It's changing. Perhaps in a future legislature, the minister will be able to finalize even more the reforms she is putting on the table today. The other thing is to open up the defense. I think it's indispensable. In this connection, I look forward with great interest to the finalization of a project which was born in Parliament, at the time of the rainbow governments and the Verhofstadt government. It's the service of collective utility. It's a possible front door. To be quite correct, it was also a proposal on the initiative of parliamentarians. It is important that Parliament also make proposals. There may also be some reflection on civil protection or what remains of it. I have received a lot of comments on this. Maybe we have to ask ourselves a question. I had once asked the Minister of the Interior: would it not be appropriate to bring together, upstream and downstream of the defence, what remains of the Civil Protection system to have an entry point and to allow soldiers who have reached retirement age - often too early - to engage, rather than on a reserve, in civil protection and thus to strengthen action on the ground? New barracks should not be created since military entities exist. Material is compatible with that of the Defense. Joint training could be conducted. That's what I meant. Christophe Lacroix, who was not supposed to intervene, said: we will support the project and I can only agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u15	Madam Chair, I would like to thank all members. I must admit that at the beginning of my term of office, I did not think that my speech on personnel and the importance of social consultation in order to make the staff and the unions work hand in hand would be resumed today with such a training. I'm glad! I am also pleased that the staff priority has now been unanimously supported. From the beginning, whether it is the vast recruitment plan, the salary increase expected by the military for almost 20 years, the additional budget obtained of more than 10 billion euros, we are working on the reconstruction of the department. The legacy is not simple, but we pursue this goal with determination, with the aim of consolidating it and increasing it. In a year and a half, with all these advances, no one can doubt that I did not rest on my laurels. I still have many projects in the cartons, because there is still a lot of work, especially in terms of human resources. I would like to say a few words about the projects that relate specifically to human resources management. Our objective remains to make the department and its trades more attractive in order to promote opportunities for training, social promotion, recruitment, protection of military personnel, as well as their families, as well as to offer them prospects for the future - without affecting the level of demand. I have indicated this repeatedly in committee for more than a year. Those who know me know that my level of demand is very high - I am sometimes criticized. Certainly, here in this department, the aim is not to reduce the level of demand. Moreover, to go back to one or the other question in relation to this condition of diploma, aptitude tests remain well maintained with the same level of requirement. Beyond the technical skills that need to be assessed, there are also relational skills. I can't give you any numbers since we couldn't apply when we didn't have this certificate, but I can tell you about some examples we've been through, examples of young people who came to the Defence intern. You know that we have expanded the internships at the Defence level and that from the age of 14, we can go to some units to do an internship. It has been realized that some young people who have had a somewhat difficult childhood, who have not had the chance to have parental follow-up, which would have allowed them to have a BCE, and who have done a placement in a unit, were really responding to what is expected of a member. So it's really in that spirit. These are, of course, special cases. The vast majority have their certificates and I encourage everyone to study. It's an essential key. But I do not want to penalize anyone who has not had the chance to have the necessary supervision as well as to obtain this CEB. If he has the technical skills, if he has the relational skills, I hope he can find his way to Defence without neglecting the level of requirement, I repeat. That's what I meant, Madam President. I thank all of you for your follow-up, whether you support this project or even refrain from doing so, having reviewed your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u16	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u17	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2046/3. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2046/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2046/3. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2046/3) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u18	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2540/3. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2540/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2540/3. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2540/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u19	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2541/3. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2541/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2541/3. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2541/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2542/3. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2542/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2542/3. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2542/3) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u21	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2544/3. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2544/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2544/3. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2544/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u22	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u23	I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u24	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u25	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u26	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u27	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2604. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2604/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2604. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2604/3) The bill has five articles. The draft law contains 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u28	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2605. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2605/3) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2605. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2605/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u29	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. As Minister Van Peteghem is still on his way and will be joining us in a few moments, I propose to start with the next point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u30	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u31	- 1069: Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Stefaan Van Hecke, Kristof Calvo, Marie-Colline Leroy, Albert Vicaire. - 977: MM. Gaby Colebunders, Nabil Boukili, Greet Daems, Marco Van Hees, Raoul Hedebouw, Steven De Vuyst. - 1730: François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi. - 1738: François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi. I propose that you devote one discussion to these four motions for resolutions. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these four motions for resolutions. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1069/7) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1069/7) The Committee on External Relations also proposes to reject motion for a resolution No 977. The Committee on External Relations also proposes the proposal of Resolution No. 977 to be rejected. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u32	Madam President, I refer to the written text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a directive dated 26 November 2019, Directive No. 1937 for those who love details. It imposes on Member States minimum standards for the protection of whistleblowers. They must be protected from any form of reprisals or threat with reprisals. It imposes an obligation on Member States to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and is of public policy. That Directive should be transposed into national law. That should have happened in this House on 17 December 2021. The first observation is that this did not happen. We have failed to fulfil our obligations in this respect. Here's what I'm gonna get off my chest. The importance of European decision-making and cooperation at European level is always mentioned with great pride in this House, but when directives are drawn up at European level, we are often the worst pupil of the class in transposing them. Therefore, it did not happen before 17 December 2021 and will not happen before 11 May 2022. In the absence of the government's initiative, a motion for a resolution was tabled by members of the majority. I will not say that this is unheard of, because it is not, especially when it concerns something where the government wants to take initiative. In this, however, it is quite remarkable that a majority group is asking the government to do something that should have happened a long time ago. Our group supported that directive in the European Parliament. We believe that there should be proper protection for whistleblowers. They often play an important role in making things transparent that are not allowed to see the light of day. In doing so, we must protect the right people and ensure that the Statute is not undermined. How do we apply this to this resolution? A resolution which has been dealt with strangely enough in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when I think it belongs to the Interior, was it not that an important hearing is currently taking place in the Committee on the Interior, then the members of that committee would be able to make their voice heard in the plenary debate? On the one hand, the questions asked to the government are rather vague and require that we look at the explanations. This means that we cannot vote on a number of elements, which is not a proper parliamentary work. The European Directive provides that Member States remain exclusively competent in matters relating to national security or essential security interests. In these areas, therefore, the directive will not impose any obligations on us. However, they are involved in this resolution, which means that they are wrongly hiding behind that directive in order to go beyond what it really aims to do. A second problem is the provision of humanitarian visas. First of all, the concept of whistleblower is very broad. But more importantly, while today that kind of visa is being discretionaryly decided by the member of the government concerned, one category is being created here for which we have to lay down conditions for moving that discretionary power aside. A specific arrangement was developed for the police in 2016, which we fully cooperated in and even the initiators of. The claim that nothing would have happened on that point is therefore unjustified. The opinions asked for by Mr Mahdi were interesting. In that opinion, he was downright negative on this proposal. It explicitly states that it is not appropriate to provide for a regime for a particular category of persons, given that each application for a humanitarian visa needs to be assessed separately and individually. In this we certainly follow Mr Mahdi. There have also been opinions from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and the Foreign Affairs Office. In fact, those two opinions went in the same direction. For this reason, we believe that this directive is being abused in order to ask the government for things other than those that are provided for in it, things which, even in some respects, risk evading the proper protection of whistleblowers. I would like to call on the government not to wait for resolutions to implement what the directive has actually already ordered. If the weight of a European directive is not enough to force the government into action, a resolution in Parliament will certainly not be able to do so. We shall vote against it for these reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a motion for a resolution before us, one of which calls for the European directive on the protection of whistleblowers to be converted into Belgian law in an ambitious way. That has not yet been done, but the fact that we in our country are sometimes dragging our feet when it comes to the transposition of European directives is not new, Mr De Roover. It's a bad Belgian tradition. That was not much different, for example, under the previous government, of which your party was a member. It is good that Members of Parliament are trying to take responsibility and ask the government to transpose important directives which have not yet been transposed as soon as possible and to do so in an ambitious way. One can protect whistleblowers in many ways, such as trying to avoid reprisals and provide protection against dismissal. For the record, we are talking here mainly about the private sector. Much has already been done in the public sector. The fact that Belgium has not yet done so is a gap which we hope we can overcome with some encouragement from this Parliament. We accept our responsibility and point out that this is important. The context is that of the imminent extradition of whistleblower Julian Assange to the United States. That is also the context in which we have held the debates, which is why it is important for Parliament to give its opinion. There are countries that don't do that, who think what happens to whistleblowers worldwide is normal. Well, the Belgian Chamber of Representatives distances itself from this and makes a number of statements in this resolution. The resolution states and confirms very clearly that Belgians and citizens worldwide have the right to the truth and that therefore the media and whistleblowers deserve protection. It is not worthy of a rule of law that I can call them heroes who, in the public interest, reveal the truth, are persecuted and often also rotting away in prison, while people who commit war crimes, evade taxes or commit corruption are much more likely to go unpunished. Citizens have a right to know the truth. Those who bring that out with danger to their own lives or careers must be protected by the law. This is a signal about the current threats to the media and whistleblowers in the world. Allow me to give some examples of scandals that are now known to us all because we could read them in the newspapers and which we don't really look forward to anymore, but which we would never have known without an active input from whistleblowers. These are scandals such as Swiss Leaks, Lux Leaks, Panama Papers or the sexual abuse by French soldiers in the Central African Republic. These abuses have come to light thanks to whistleblowers, who are often punished by reprisals of all kinds. The adoption of this resolution is also in line with the weeks of civil society mobilisation against the extradition of Julian Assange, also here in its own country. Amnesty International, like other NGOs, has warned that if the British Government effectively executes the extradition order, Julian Assange is at risk of being subjected to detention conditions that could cause irreversible damage to his physical and psychological well-being. Our resolution therefore calls on the international community to protect freedom of expression and freedom of the press and not to extradite journalists or whistleblowers if they are at great risk of serious violations of their human rights due to detention conditions such as torture or other inhumane treatment. With regard to the Belgian level, the motion for a resolution calls for an ambitious transposition of the European whistleblowers' directive. We are democrats, and fortunately we are not the only group that wants to protect whistleblowers. The whole Parliament continues to oppose the fishing of whistleblowers. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is not a piece of paper. Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are the pillars of our free and democratic society, hence whistleblowers deserve protection instead of being shamed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing this text for weeks and the risk of Julian Assange being extradited to the United States. On Wednesday, 20 April, British justice issued an extradition order concerning him, which is yet to be approved by Interior Minister Priti Patel. If it is, he will be extradited twenty-eight days after April 20, that is next week. The defence lawyers will then have only one possibility of appeal, i.e. the High Court. It is therefore to be feared that a decisive step has been taken on the path that could lead Julian Assange to the United States, where he faces, I recall, 175 years in prison, because of the way that this country has designed its anti-espionage legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is a pioneering nation in the field of press freedom. As we know, the aspiration to it is not for nothing in the very birth of our country. On the other hand, the consequences of possible extradition on Julian Assange have been regularly denounced for several years by many NGOs around the world, who are rightly concerned about the signal that would be sent. For all these reasons, the Government Agreement provides for the transposition of Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons denouncing infringements of Union rights. That is also why my group will support with great interest the text of Mr Samuel Cogolati, even if it broadens the target and is not limited exclusively to the Assange case. Indeed, for months we have been mobilizing to support it. A specific amendment has been tabled concerning the transposition of the European directive into Belgian law so that the government can deal with it quickly, which, we are sure, should not be delayed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard in particular my colleagues De Vriendt and Ben Achour on this issue. As the resolution was introduced by Mr. From Vriendt, we can only support her. That is what we are going to do earlier. We will support this resolution because it talks about the protection of whistleblowers and journalists around the world. These are so obvious and normal statements that we can only support them. However, this text does not address the issue to which it should respond. My colleague has discussed Mr Assange's subject here. Other groups, including the DéFI Group and the PTB Group, submitted proposals. The PTB has tabled a proposal for a law on the transposition of the European Directive on the protection of whistleblowers, as well as a motion for a resolution that explicitly refers to the case of Mr Assange. He is a journalist who was prosecuted for having done his job as a journalist and having informed. The problem with the text we are dealing with today is that it does not respond at all to Mr Assange's problem when it was the crux of the question. Mr. Assange has been in prison for years. He now faces extradition to the United States, where he faces 175 years in prison. Why? Mr. Assange's only crime is to reveal information in his journalistic profession, contrary to what is claimed by the U.S. government. The judge for espionage, but Mr. Assange was not a spy and did not steal the documents or information he revealed; he has a source and, as a journalist, he published the information he received. This information clearly demonstrates the war crimes committed by the US Army and the British Army in Afghanistan and Iraq. That's the problem. Normally, when one is in such a situation, the first reflex of the democrats or those who defend international law, human rights and the dignity of peoples and their right to sovereignty, would be to investigate these war crimes. The evidence put forward by Mr. Assange leaves no doubt at this level, but if these crimes are confirmed, the war criminals - Mr. George Bush and Mr. Tony Blair - should be brought to trial before the international criminal court. That's the logic of things. But it is Mr. Assange who has been imprisoned and prosecuted and the war criminals are still at large. It was Mr. Assange who was facing 175 years in prison, who had been subjected to torture, and who had been imprisoned in inhumane conditions. And it is he who pays the price of having only done his job as a journalist to inform public opinion of the war crimes committed by the American and British armies. In this case, it is said that there is still a possible democratic start, that there are still a few cards to play, in particular to get Mr Assange out of this impasse. We in this Parliament, in any case in the chair of my group and the DéFI Group, have wanted to take initiatives to address this issue. It is at that time that the majority comes with a text that does not respond at all to the problem. To make it seem that by voting on this resolution, we would give any support to Mr Assange is to lie to people. This text does not require any position. He does not ask the federal government for any initiative on the Assange case. It does not impose any constraint on the federal government. We had said to ourselves that it was perhaps an oblivion or perhaps that it had not been considered appropriate to explicitly appoint Mr Assange in this resolution, since that is what it is about in the current period. We have tabled amendments to recall Mr Assange's specific case, to take action on this specific case, and not in general the measures with which everyone agrees. It was found that this was not an oversight, but that the majority deliberately decided not to deal with Mr. Assange's case. Contrary to the statements made, this Parliament leaves it to its fate, without any support. That is outrageous, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot imagine that, on such a fundamental issue concerning journalistic work - especially since this work is very important to guarantee democracies, to inform public opinion, to reveal crimes such as those committed in Iraq and Afghanistan - this Parliament does not take any concrete initiative concerning Mr Assange. This is outrageous! I do not understand why Vivaldi refused to include and appoint Mr.Assange in this text, which would have provided our government with a legislative tool to act on this issue. Questions are inevitable! We're not acting because it's the United States that's being called into question? And what then? When it is the Americans who commit war crimes, are they good war crimes, acceptable? Is a million and a half deaths in Iraq acceptable? How's it going? In this Parliament there are no shouts or calls for sanctions or for their strengthening! There is no drastic action. We're forgetting that! When we have the United States in front of us, we're silent. That is exactly what this Parliament is doing: it is silent about American war crimes. Because he doesn't have the courage to defend Mr. Assange. We will not have to interpret our vote in support of this resolution earlier. Indeed, there is nothing more to do than to support it, since it repeats vague sentences with which one can only agree, such as transposing the European directive on whistleblowers. Everyone agrees on that! That is why we will support him. But this vote should not be interpreted as an act of acceptance of the government's communication about this text, stating that it was voted to respond to Mr Assange's case. That is not true, this text is of no use to Mr Assange! He gives him no support, no help, and you don't give him it because in front of you there is the United States of America. This is unacceptable cowardice! I wanted to say it, and now you've heard it. I hope, Madam President, that a conscience can still awaken today. There are amendments that want to amend this text, make it more acceptable, more humane, more defender of journalists and whistleblowers, contrary to what we are told. I hope that by then these consciences will support these amendments. Otherwise, it will only be a confirmation of the cowardice of this Parliament which spoke in committee and which will later speak in the vote. For the simple reason that war criminals are in this case Mr Bush and the United States, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Chelsea Manning, Daphne Caruana Galizia, Edward Snowden, Daniel Ellsberg, Julian Assange, and in a way Alexandra Jaspar and Charlotte Dereppe, are individuals who have been or are still being retaliated by powerful people because they have revealed dysfunctions or abuses that could seriously harm the public interest. Corruption, fraud, bribes, embezzlement of public funds, environmental pollution and even human rights violations. Without them, these reprehensible acts would simply have remained occult and, above all, unpunished, to the detriment of our interests and to the detriment of all those of our fellow citizens. The dangers they face are many. This ranges from simple dismissal to judicial harassment, physical and mental harm, private and family life. Sometimes they go so far as to risk murder. It is therefore more than urgent to guarantee them extensive protection to send them a strong signal, namely that we hear and value what they have to say and that we rely on them to make society fairer. Therefore, you will easily understand why we have the impression that what the majority is proposing to us today, even if we approve of this motion for a resolution, is, unfortunately, largely just powder in the eyes. Let us begin with the demands of the international community. The first is to protect freedom of expression, freedom of the press, journalists and whistleblowers. That's very good! But how can we be credible at the international level if we do not apply these principles ourselves? I am obviously referring here to the relentlessness, including some parties present here, for months, on the two whistleblowers of the Data Protection Authority, Charlotte Dereppe and Alexandra Jaspar. In fact, Jaspar resigned so much the pressure that was being exerted on her by her hierarchy was unsustainable. We're not going back here on the case. But I regret that such a political trial must be reached. I would also like to appeal to the conscience of my colleagues. It's not too late to turn around. Secondly, it was asked "not to extradite journalists or whistleblowers who could be exposed to a high risk of serious violations, particularly as a result of conditions of detention that might be tantamount to torture or other inhuman treatment". I wonder because, generally speaking, no one is extradited if there is a risk of a violation of fundamental rights. That's the rule already. Therefore, this demand does not add anything more to what already exists. Should not the idea of not extraditing whistleblowers and journalists be based on the fact that we believe that the fact that they have revealed certain secrets is fair and in our common interest? If that is the case, we cannot extradite any journalist or whistleblower, at least those whose alerts still need to be dealt with and those whose validity and relevance of the alert has been confirmed, whatever the fate reserved for them. Extradition of a journalist or whistleblower who qualifies as such must take place only if it is considered that his or her alert is not relevant or well-founded. That is why my group is tabling an amendment calling for our country not to extradite any whistleblowers and journalists, provided that the relevance and validity of their alerts are recognised by the government. With regard to the requests made to the federal government, we would first like to see an ambitious transposition of the 2019 European Directive. Other colleagues have called him back before me. It is, moreover, fun to read in the government agreement that our country will transpose it "in time". But the deadline was theoretically last December, but there is still nothing on the table. Can we hope for a proper transposition before the end of the legislature? Let us hope that this motion for a resolution will bring us closer to it. However, to ensure this, we are tabling an amendment requesting that the government transpose this directive before the end of the year. Finally, and here I partly agree with my colleague Boukili, my greatest regret concerns the journalist Julian Assange, who is in the process of being extradited from the United Kingdom to the United States, where he risks being sentenced to 175 years in prison. Freedom of the press, ladies and gentlemen – because that is what this is all about – is one of the cornerstones of any democratic society. This right presupposes the freedom to have one's own opinion and, above all, to receive and communicate information by any means of expression and without interference. In this case, Julian Assange is not a whistleblower, as he received his information from an internal source, now known to all, since he is military analyst Chelsea Manning. The protection afforded to him by freedom of the press is therefore particularly extensive. This justifies, for DéFI, that our country should adopt a clear position by standing with it and denouncing the harassment against it since 2010. This case has been going on for twelve years, and its critics are about to win. Perhaps we should have shown ourselves a little more courageous in defending our democratic values, but it is not too late. We are also resubmitting amendments that we tabled in committee to include Julian Assange nominally in this motion for a resolution and to ensure that, if he so requests, political asylum is granted to him in our country. That is a strong signal that we can send to the international community. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we should not miss out on this text, which we will support, despite its shortcomings, will be a missed act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u38	Madam President, I would like to respond briefly. I would like to thank the members of the opposition who have spoken because they have both indicated that their groups will support the resolution, which is a good thing. I thank them for that. There is indeed a difference in approach. There are arguments pro and counter for both options. I certainly don't want to put that away. However, we have opted for a broader wording and a broader approach here, so that the proposal does not focus exclusively on Julian Assange's case. We have opted for a broad formulation. Some reactions minimise the approach and some also the resolution. Perhaps some people are surprised that the current Vivaldi coalition can actually approve such a text. Maybe they didn't expect that, but we did. I'll show you why you minimize this. You say that, of course, you are in favour of transposing the European directive. Everyone is in favour of this. There is a delay in the transposition of the Directive. It is therefore a good thing that Parliament has indicated that it must be done. That's not nothing. That's significant. Moreover, the resolution also calls on Parliament and later on by the majority to implement it in an ambitious way. You know that the transposition of a directive can be very restrictive and very restrictive. Parliament has often debated the resolution before us, including in committee with my colleague, Mr Samuel Cogolati, who is the main producer of the resolution and who is the initiator of the initiative. However, the fact that Parliament is asking the government to transpose the directive and also asking it to do so ambitiously is not nothing. Moreover, if the Chamber asks the international community not to issue journalists or whistleblowers who are at high risk of human rights violations due, among other things, to detention conditions, that is indeed the Assange case. Mr Assange is currently locked up in the United Kingdom and is in danger of being extradited to the United States, of which Amnesty International, among others, has complained about detention conditions. The fact that this wording is chosen obviously means that this concerns, among other things, Mr Assange's case. The resolution explicitly chooses to go wider than Mr Assange. You can be for or against that, and I understand a different approach. In this way, other potential whistleblowers are caught by this resolution and by the concern expressed by this text. That is the approach that we had in mind and which I actually wish to defend.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u39	Madam President, I just have one clarification. This text is intended for all whistleblowers and journalists. That is why we support this text. But, Mr De Vriendt, that was not what was asked in committee when our proposals were put on the agenda. What was asked of this Parliament was to act on Julian Assange's case. I can accept that we do not want to deal with a particular case, but in general. Why, therefore, reject an amendment that specifies the case of Julian Assange, since this is the problem we are facing, without removing anything on the general aspect? Other journalists and whistleblowers are still affected by this text. Why not name Mr. Assange's case? Why didn't you have the courage to do it? When it comes to other countries, you're the first to go up on the stage to announce, ask and claim that we're doing the best we can. In this case, you did the minimum. Why? That is why I can understand the absence of Mr Cogolati, who has difficulty coming to defend this text. It is, in fact, indefensible. When faced with Mr Assange's situation, this text was indefensible. What are you going to say to Mr. Assange's family? What are you going to say to the Free Assange committee that has been fighting for years? Is it with this text that you are going to show him what we have done to Parliament? That's bullshit. That is not what we are asking in this chamber. We are asking for concrete action. If the values of democracy, freedom of expression, protection of journalists and fundamental values are yours, as you repeat every time, why don't you translate them into action when you talk about Mr Assange? Because you have the Americans in front of you! I don't see any other explanation. Mr De Vriendt, you can say what you want, it does not pass. This shows once again the hypocrisy of this Parliament, double standards and the instrumentalisation of human rights and values that we are supposed to defend without exception. It's double standards, and it's hypocrisy. This is unacceptable and you cannot defend it. No, Mr De Vriendt, this text is not an answer for Mr Assange. This text is of no use to him. This text merely reflects the cowardice of this Parliament vis-à-vis the Americans, even if they are responsible for war crimes. And that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u40	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u41	The vote on the amendments reserved, on the whole motion for a resolution No 1069, and on the proposal for the rejection of motion for a resolution No 977 will take place at a later date. The vote on the amendments which have been tabled, on the whole of the motion for a resolution No. 1069 and the motion for a resolution (Doc. 977 will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u42	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u43	Madam President, I refer to my written report, which I will not hesitate to mention earlier in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u44	Minister, I was somewhat surprised when we discussed the draft law before us in committee a few weeks ago. After all, I did not expect you, a minister from a family party, to introduce a tax increase on family documents. This is what the draft law does, despite the words on administrative simplification and the like contained in the draft. The cost of the right to write increases from 7.50 euros to 50 euros for family documents and 7.50 euros to 100 euros when a property is involved. These are acts relating to the matrimonial property regime, the property system in legal cohabitation, the inheritance right, the acts of death, the donations to the living, the wills and gifts, the divorce, the lineage and the recognition. These are all important moments in people's lives, which are already being made more expensive. When I took the word "tax increase" in my mouth two weeks ago, you took it to heart. However, I have here an article in The Time of two fiscalists, who have filed your bill. They also come to the only possible conclusion, namely that an increase in the cost of notary costs is a pure tax increase. A few months ago, your colleague, Minister Van Quickenborne, announced with great pride that the notary would be reformed and that the cost to taxpayers would be reduced. The notary fee would fall. However, you immediately neutralize that decrease and immediately level the adjustment to the ground with the present tax increase. In committee, you then came up with the story that it was a budget-neutral exercise. After all, the government would reduce costs elsewhere. The reduction you mentioned was not supported by figures. However, these figures have been requested by me and by a number of other Members. However, we did not get them. The reduction is not in the text before us either. It is largely in another text, namely in a royal decree that you still have to adapt. That's a little harsh. What you are doing there is to reduce the cost of the additional copy for the ill-functioning offices, which are unable to deliver mortgage certificates on time. You are not doing anything about the completely inadequate service of those offices. However, you reduce costs and immediately compensate for this reduction by increasing taxes on all the family acts I have just mentioned. In my view, it would have been a measure of good governance if you were to tackle the administration by drawing up KPIs and ensuring that they deliver documents in time in the future. However, your solution is simply to abolish the cost of the additional copy and to take back the money from people who divorce or are in a grieving process. It's about wills, deeds of cohabitation, inheritance law and the like. So I was really surprised that you came up with such a flat tax increase. After all, I cannot call this any different. We shall therefore certainly vote against this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u45	Madam President, according to the Minister, the members of the Finance and Budget Committee did not have to worry because the bill is budget neutral. The Minister referred to the fact that the FPS Finance has made concrete calculations for this bill. It would then be natural for the members of the committee to have access to these calculations in a parliamentary context and for the Minister to make that statement, namely that all this would be budget-neutral. For example, the right to writing, which is EUR 7.5 today, would be increased to around EUR 50. That's seven times the current rate. If a real estate is involved, the rate would even rise to 100 euros, which ultimately is fifteen times the current rate. The fact that we do not see these calculations underpins our thesis that this government resorts all too often to all kinds of sneaky, secretive and devious tax increases, because it often does not even touch it. According to the liberals, especially the Walloon liberals, there should not be any tax increase, while the left-wing parties are of course won for that. This government then seeks the golden middle way between the two extremes and therefore resorts to slanted tax increases. Think of VAT on small consignments or the non-indexation of all kinds of tax reductions and exemptions. By 2024 this last measure, which provides for a sneak-in tax increase every year, would amount to EUR 66 million. However, these calculations date back to before rising inflation. With rising prices, these non-indexed tax reductions and exemptions will lead to a much higher amount. Other devious tax increases of this government are the higher fines of Minister Van Quickenborne, but also the VAT on the dentist, the physicist and so on. In fact, we can add the increased notary costs to that list, a tax increase through the back door. The government refuses to provide transparency about the calculations it is supposed to have. It refuses to share these calculations with Parliament. However, the government's control is one of Parliament's basic tasks. Subject to calculations that contradict the fact that this is yet another slanted tax increase, we will not approve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u46	Minister, I will allow a comparison. You go to the baker to buy a croissant and the baker tells you when to pay: "As part of the administrative simplification, the price of the croissant has passed to the price of the strawberry pie." That's more or less what you're doing here with this bill. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum states: "In the context of administrative simplification, a tariff amendment is planned." With some dishonesty in this statement of reasons, since we are talking about tariff changes without ever mentioning the tax increases that are quite discreetly included in the scheme. Even in the scheme, the amount of these taxes is not clear. A text analysis is needed to see that the tax that today is €7.50 is going up to €50. For some taxes, this is an increase of 567%. We even have cases where we go from 7,50 euros to 100 euros, so an increase of 1,233%. This is your administrative simplification! I really urge you to go to the street or the Lunch Garden, which you love so much, to explain to the people around you: "Here we did an administrative simplification and the tax will go from 7,50 euros to 100 euros." I really invite you to do it. I don't know if your party will go up again in the polls if you do that, but in any case, that's the reality of this piece of legislation. It is also a tax that is particularly unfair. She's regressive. This means that as a proportion of the income or act taken into account, the greater the income or the greater the amount of the act, the lower the tax rate. If you have a minister's income or a small pensioner's income, it will obviously not be the same impact for the person. The rate will be much higher for the small pensioner. Moreover, as noted by the Council of State, families now have to pay the same amounts of tax as corporations, which is totally incomprehensible. To this scandal is added a second, Minister: your refusal to be transparent. How do you justify these tax increases that you do not announce, even if you have recognized them in committee? For you, as some taxes are removed, the budgetary neutrality of the reform needs to increase others. This justification is rather singular: it is not because Paul is detaxed that we can tax Peter. In addition, we have witnessed in committee an unacceptable refusal of transparency on your part. Indeed, in order to achieve this budgetary neutrality, you said: "The FPS Finance Studies Department has done a thorough calculation." I then asked you to provide me with this data or, at least, the total amount of tax increases and reductions that, logically, must be close to zero. And you have refused, on several occasions, to do so. In order not to betray your words, I will quote again this excellent report, of which I am mentioned as the author - I can allow myself to disclose a small secret to the possible citizens who would follow us: it is, in fact, the services that write these reports. So I quote: "The Deputy Prime Minister does not understand very well why it is so insistently asked that the concrete figures be communicated. In this regard, the Deputy Prime Minister points out that it is not usual to simply transmit this type of data to Members of Parliament." In short, it is normal not to inform Members who are asking questions and not to disclose documents, when budgetary neutrality is invoked. There is no need to demonstrate it; the minister must be trusted on his word. It's quite surreal, this refusal to communicate! You justify it by the fact that some ministers had done the same before. Minister, when you read the government agreement, you had to skip the chapter "Democratic Renewal". I advise you to read, among other things, the government's promise on page 83 to ensure transparency in public life. It is transparency towards the citizens, but if you do not start with that towards the Members elected by those same citizens, the former will be all the more difficult to guarantee. This project is unbearable on the substance but it is also unbearable on the form, in the way in which you have refused the minimum degree of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u47	Colleagues, while at first glance this bill makes it possible to increase administrative simplification by removing the cost of certificates, copies or extracts of mortgage documentation and of refusal of transcripts of attachments, as well as mortgage certificates, it does, however, significantly increase the writing fee for a range of other acts. Articles 3 and 4 of the draft thus show that the initial write-off cost fixed at EUR 7.50 is increased to EUR 50 and, in some cases, to EUR 100 for acts subject to mortgage transcription or acts for companies. As a reminder, these acts concern many moments in the lives of citizens: marriage, divorce, death, etc. The minister justified this by stating that the administrative simplification envisaged by the project had to be fiscally neutral, which was perfectly understandable. We could even join it. However, while it is true that the FPS Finance confirms the budgetary neutrality of the reform, its estimates have not been communicated to Parliament. We therefore have little information on whether the tariff increase in certain acts actually compensates for the Belgian State's loss of profits. In conclusion, although the proposed measure was previously discussed and analysed with the sector, the blurring of this text, mainly on budget estimates, will prevent our group from fully supporting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your explanations, comments and questions. I will mention a number of points. Mr Vermeersch, I hope that, after explaining the budget neutrality of what is now before you, you will change your voting behaviour. This is a reform of registration rights and of the right to writing, a reform of nearly EUR 35 million. This reform obviously has an expenditure side and a revenue side. Since it is budget-neutral, it is logical that the two are in agreement. To show that, I'll give you an overview. On the expenditure side, the removal of the right to 2 euros for a mortgage certificate costs 1.9 million euros. The removal of the fee on the automated supplementary mortgage copies of 52 euros represents a cost of 31.9 million euros. The establishment of the right to scripture and the right to register documents of succession costs EUR 1.1 million. On the revenue side, the increase in the rate from EUR 7.5 to EUR 50 for certain notarial documents or EUR 100 for immovable deeds provides revenue of EUR 5.3 million, as it amounts to around 103,000 instruments per year. The increase in the rate from EUR 95 to EUR 100 for legal documents represents a revenue of EUR 0.4 million, which amounts to around 78,000 instruments per year. Finally, the increase in the right to writing from EUR 50 to EUR 100 for notarial documents subject to mortgage transfer or registration represents a revenue of EUR 28.7 million, representing 474,000 instruments per year. If you compare these figures, you will even notice a limited negative balance. So it is actually, if you ask me, a tax reduction of EUR 0.5 million, but I will not sell it in that way for the sake of clarity. Within the budgets of our FPS Finance this is in any case taken care of. There is absolutely no question of a tax increase, as you have said very explicitly in committee. We have had a long and very clear discussion in committee about the way in which we operate and how we ask our administration for this and get input for it. We all have our views, of course, but they are clear. Mr Donné, an average family does not use this special rate. A limited number of documents are covered by that special tariff, and these are mainly the assets used in the framework of the capital planning. We are trying to achieve administrative simplification effectively. This is an example of how, in consultation with the sector association and Fednot, we came to the same conclusion that this separate tariff could or should no longer be included. You therefore had a few comments about the service. The administration's services were monitored again in the context of the consultations with Fednot. In the context of the overheating of the real estate market in times of corona, much more mortgage copies were requested at a certain time, while civil servants had to work as much as possible at home, thus temporarily building up a backlog. We are very quickly redistributing them to tackle that problem. The overdue files were brought to less taxed offices. In this way, it was possible to step in to meet the demand for mortgage copies. In other words, the problem you are talking about has already been solved. We've had a lot of discussions on that with Fednot. Your comment was a legitimate concern, but we have solved that problem. What is before us today is separate from what is being discussed here. Hopefully this proposal will receive the full support of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is a pity that we did not get those figures two weeks ago. However, that does not alter the substance of my criticism. That does not alter the fact that you are withdrawing the right to scriptures on family acts. You once again put forward the argument of capacity and that the average family does not use it. A whole pack of these deeds is no choice. Those are moments in life that happen and are faced with. I do not understand that argument. The second aspect concerns this capacity. Is anyone who marries divorced property immediately a wealthy person in your opinion? Money problems can give rise to divorce. Whoever divorces after bankruptcy isn't rich either. Here assumptions are made that don't add up at all, to hang on to a story of tax shift or something. I'm not going with that at all. It's just a tax increase in the right to writing family acts, point on the line, no matter how justified it is. As far as services are concerned, I would like to hear you say that these problems did not arise in the case of corona. These problems have arisen in the integration of mortgage firms into the general administration of the patrimony documentation. That is the reason for these problems. These problems are solved by controlling the administration and not by lowering certain rates because the service is not working properly and recovering from elsewhere. Despite your explanation, this doesn't change our position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u50	Minister, I would like to thank you for answering our question to share these figures. You understand, of course, that in order to be able to analyse these figures, we also need them in committee. Then we have enough time to see what the impact is on this or that situation. For example, which notarial acts are more common or less common? Which have an important impact? What notarial acts can one avoid or which one is obliged to enter into if one makes a particular transaction? It is very difficult for us at the moment to quickly analyse this. But let this be an appeal to you, Minister, at the next sessions, where we have draft laws and where such decisions are taken, to make them automatic to share these figures with Parliament. What we asked for was nothing more than what you have given now, in particular how many acts are involved, what the impact is of the respective increase and the possible reduction, what the expenditure and revenue are. In this way, we in Parliament can do our audit work. That is the appeal of the opposition committee members who intervened here. I would therefore like to thank you for sharing the figures and call on you to do so in future in committee, so that we do not have to insist on it in such a way. It's supposed to be an automatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u51	Mr Minister, the substance of the criticism remains. These are unjustifiable tax increases. On the form, it is quite incomprehensible that in committee, the place where we normally analyse things in depth, and where we can debate more deeply than here in plenary, you refuse to give us the figures we are asking for. You've had an almost theoretical justification that you don't have to give them. You justify this non-transparency. After refusing to give any information, you come to plenary with figures. You understand that this is quite incomprehensible. You may have an explanation and if so, I'm ready to hear it and even curious. But it is still a way of doing things that is not correct and unfortunately this is not the first time you have done so. For example, when we had discussions on the issue of taxation of unemployment benefits, it was the same thing: you were stuck in a total mutism in committee. Fortunately there was a second reading to which you came with answers. I don't know what this refusal to answer is due to. Perhaps it can be referred to in committee later if you do not want to say anything today. But you understand that there is something abnormal in your way of working. I think it would be useful to revisit this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u52	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u53	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2624/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2624/3) The bill has 17 articles. The draft law contains 17 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u54	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u55	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mr Leysen, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u56	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2496/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2496/7) The bill has 18 clauses. The draft law contains 18 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u57	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u58	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mr. Van den Bergh. He refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u59	Madam President, I know that the committee meeting is currently being concluded and that the Minister will then come here. I can make my statement now, but I know that the questioning session is now coming to an end. Colleagues, the Flemish interest is of the opinion that we should be careful when granting subsidies to companies. If regulations are imposed at State level on a sector which may have far-reaching operational and financial consequences and may threaten the viability of some companies in that sector, it is justified to provide support measures. Same here. Furthermore, as from 8 December 2024, rail freight operators will have to use quiet wagons, as a result of European legislation. In concrete terms, they will have to carry out a whole operation in which the cast iron brakes of their wagons will have to be replaced by much quieter composite brakes. If you know that the cost of adjusting one wagon may vary from EUR 500 to EUR 1,500, it is clear that the obligation imposed means a substantial investment for freight operators in rail transport, depending on the type of wagon, the time and place of adjustment and the person carrying it out. This goods sector, like many other sectors, has experienced difficult years as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic. Some operators are talking about water, while those same operators will still have to play an important role in realising the government's ambitions to double rail freight transport by 2030. That is why the Flemish interest welcomes the support mechanism made possible by this bill, but we have a few comments to make. The support mechanism shall run from 1 November 2019 until the end of 2022. The compulsory use of the silent wagons starts on 8 December 2024. Those operators who still want to adapt wagons to the new obligations imposed after 2022 but who will be ready in time by 2024, will no longer be able to receive a subsidy. However, some operators have to comply with a well thought-out and strict schedule to adapt their wagons, so as not to jeopardise the service of their business. Another issue is freight operators that already had wagons adapted before the start of the support mechanism before 1 November 2019, since the European Regulation already dates from 2014. They too will not be able to obtain a subsidy for the wagons they have already adapted. It is therefore a pity that this bill is coming so late. It initially provided for a retroactive introduction of the support mechanism by 2019, but the Minister was flagged back by the Council of State. For some operators this loss of retroactivity represents a loss of between 30 % and 40 %. If you are aware that the aid can amount to up to 50%, by combining Belgium and abroad if you are also travelling abroad, you will understand that the new rules, the deletion of retroactivity and the absence of the support mechanism after the end of 2022 will cut very deeply into the skin of the freight operators. In Belgium the use of the quiet wagons will cover the line from Antwerp towards Liège, the Montzenroute. However, the additional costs for freight operators will not be passed on to the final customers, possibly even to the end customers of Antwerp, since the margins are already rather low and given the high level of road freight competition. The costs are therefore borne by the freight operators. It should also be clarified further with regard to the lifetime or wear resistance of the new composite brakes compared to the cast iron brakes used to date. However, initial indications already indicate that the life of the composite brakes will be significantly lower than the cast iron brakes. This may also mean an additional cost for the operators. Under the guise of better late than never and better little than nothing, the Flemish Interest supports the introduction of a support mechanism in itself, but as far as the form is concerned it should have been better and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u60	Madam President, this is not the right way to proceed. You are launching the debate on this bill, but the minister is not here, just like my colleague Vindevoghel, because they are in the Mobility Committee for an oral question-and-answer session. Consideration of this text should be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u61	I have asked that the committee suspend its work so that the minister and the members present can join us. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u62	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Colleagues, we are continuing the discussion on the bill to assist in the post-equipment of cars to reduce noise pollution from rail freight transportation. I give the floor to Mr Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u63	Madam Chair, Minister, rail must also be the future of freight transportation. Minister Gilkinet's Vision Rail 2040 confirms this ambition with a desire to increase the modal share of freight transport by rail from 12 to 20%. This development must therefore be regulated because the transport of goods has specific characteristics other than those of the transport of persons, in relation to the connection, but also in relation to the times when it is used, i.e. during the night. Noise nuisances must be minimized for residents. In the Committee on Mobility, we welcomed this project, which reconciles not only our ambitions for the mobility of goods by rail, but also those for the protection of the well-being of citizens. It plans to equip cars with devices to reduce noise by 50%. It was important for the federal government to be able to support railway companies active in this type of transportation. They also experienced their difficulties during the health crisis and were waiting for this signal in the head of the federal authorities. There are European obligations and timetables to which the amendments are intended to respond in part. But this project also responds to the urgency of being able to equip these cars as quickly as possible. A timetable is provided for companies to use the scheme as quickly as possible to ensure that the well-being of residents is respected. That is why our group will support this project, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that we see this bill on reducing noise pollution caused by rail transport to be completed. This subject, launched under Minister Bellot, was particularly important to the Reform Movement, as it revealed several important elements for us. This bill shows that rail mobility is moving towards a better one, reducing the noise pollution caused by freight cars for the greater health of people living near railways. In addition, this bill shows that quality of life can be an effective rhyme because it will not interfere with the ability of cars to move and transport goods. It makes it possible to take account of the European ban on noisy wagons on certain sections, while avoiding a loss of competitiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport. Consequently, carriers will be able to put themselves in order to benefit from the aid and measures taken to reduce the inconvenience caused by car noise. This measure is the most economical for the whole sector and the most beneficial for citizens in terms of quality of life, given the noise reduction caused by these cars, estimated at about 50%. We continue to thank our partners for their support and we certainly welcome the action of former Minister Bellot, who is at the initiative of this bill that will reduce these noise and environmental nuisances to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u65	Madam President, noise is an important social problem. The fight against noise is in principle a regional competence. However, different levels of policy play an important role here too. For example, the federal government is responsible for product standards and therefore also for the noise standard for products. We are now discussing products, in particular freight trains, that make noise. Those freight trains travel across all regions and across all language boundaries. I would simply like to state the absurdity of the distribution of powers in relation to noise. We also see, for example, what misery that leads to at the airport of Zaventem. Noise is an important social problem, because it can cause a lot of chronic health problems. We have to do something about that. A limitation of train traffic is a possibility. The question then is how and under what conditions. This brings us to the essence of the text before us today. This draft law proposes that the Belgian State subsidises the private sector, so that private companies replace their old cast iron brake blocks on the freight wagons with new composite brake blocks. A political decision taken in the past has privatized our own rail freight department. This has been done by political parties under the argument that the private sector works much more efficiently. The reality shows that the privatisation of this sector has turned into a disaster. Lineas, the market leader in Belgium, is tormenting more debts than ever before. Lineas himself had to sell a large part of his fleet in order to survive. However, the government chooses to re-subsidise that company. We already gave corona support, which was then extended, and now we will also finance new brake pads so that the company can continue to operate. This text goes even further, since it grants grants with retroactive effect. This allows Lineas, for example, to receive subsidies for brake blocks on freight wagons that the company sold to foreign companies months ago. Who knows where those wagons are today and if they're still in use at all? PVDA is in favour of investment in rail, but we are not participating in a constant flow of subsidies to the private market. When will that stop? If the sector can only survive through state aid, why not just take it back as a public sector? This will enable us to put freight transport back on the market, which will be the best lever for our climate objectives. We shall therefore abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u66	Madam President, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Mobility for their favourable reception of this text, which is the continuation of a text tabled by my predecessor, François Bellot. This text can help to make the transport of goods by rail even more acceptable for railway residents, since the aim is to grant a subsidy for a total amount of EUR 2.2 million, which will make it possible to modernise about 2,000 wagons of companies carrying out freight transport and to make their braking system less noisy. Those who, like me, live along a railway track know this strident noise. This text is important. It is part of the federal government's commitment to increase and double the volume of rail freight by 2030. A freight convoy is 50 trucks that will not be on our roads, it is less pollution, less road insecurity, but also more support for our economy. Two questions were raised during the plenary discussions. The first relates to the retroactive nature of the measure. An amendment was tabled by the majority in plenary to define this retroactive nature, in agreement with the European Commission, which was to validate this aid system. All cars that have been retrofied – to use the appropriate expression, even if it is not very French – since 2019, will be eligible for a subsidy. The second question was asked by Mrs Vindevoghel. It focuses on public support for private actors. In my view, in terms of the transport of goods by rail, given the ecological and economic importance of this sector, this support is entirely justified. It will be proportional to the number of kilometres travelled on our network. This subsidy can be paid out very quickly, thanks to the work of the Mobility FPS which has been following this dossier brilliantly since the beginning and which has ensured its continuity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u67	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u68	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2548/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2548/4) The title in French has been changed by the commission to "a bill to assist the post-equipment of wagons to reduce noise pollution caused by the carriage of goods by rail". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill to aid the post-equipment of wagons to reduce the noise pollution of rail freight transport". The bill has 15 articles. The draft law has 15 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u71	Madam President, thanks to the services, I can refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u72	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, thank you for the short and concise report. This draft law, which was unanimously adopted in committee, fills a gap that arose in the 2011 law. We have already discussed the technical aspect in detail in committee, and I am not going to go back to that either. Our group will support the draft law, but, as in committee, we still have some concerns and criticisms. Madam Minister, our concern about the consolidated pension fund remains, first and foremost, with regard to medium- and long-term financial sustainability. The Court of Auditors also expressed those concerns in its 2021 report. The number of permanent officials is steadily falling, while this fund is only financed by contributions to their wages and a possible solidarity contribution. The latter appears to increase year after year and becomes a financial millstone around the neck for some concerned administrations. In reply to my questions about this, you indicated that you were looking into alternative funding, but you have not yet been able to find money within the government because there are other and more urgent expenditures. So you will have to look at the regions, but let us be honest, the financial capacity of two of the three regions is not such that they can easily come up with a few hundred million euros a year. You may want to, but you're tied to hands and feet. It also refers this reform to the Greek calendar, as does the announced major pension reform. You do not know or do not yet know the financial impact of the measure proposed here. However, I assume that you are well aware, through local authorities, of the problems that arise in relation to the consolidated pension fund and where they are located. It is sad that you leave Parliament in the dark about this. We therefore suspect to be involved in a game of back room politics. The financing model is thoroughly wrong because your predecessor on Pensions, Michel Daerden, who set up the system, claimed that he could count, but at least did so with a very short-sighted vision. Especially because of the discount that can be given when boards offer a 2nd pillar to their contractual officials, the ERF is no longer financially viable in the long term. That kind of accounting tricks came from politicians with a short-term vision. That is what I said in committee. This draft law certainly does not solve the problem. A thorough reform of pensions is once again not possible. It's waiting for Godot again, and we regret that. Despite our criticism, our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u73	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u74	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2590/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2590/3) The title in French has been amended by the commission to read: "Bill amending Chapter 7 of Title 2 of the Act of 24 October 2011 providing permanent funding for the pensions of the members of the staff appointed definitively by the provincial and local governments and local police areas and amending the Act of 6 May 2002 establishing the Pension Fund of the Integrated Police and laying down special provisions on social security and containing various amending provisions". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill amending Chapter 7 of Title 2 of the Act of 24 October 2011 providing for permanent financing of the pensions of staff members appointed as final members of provincial and local governments and local police areas and amending the Act of 6 May 2002 establishing the Integrated Police Pension Fund and laying down special provisions on social security and containing various amending provisions". The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur was Mrs Thémont, who referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u77	Madam President, for the PS Group, this project is essential in order to support the CPAS, which are assailed by the demands and already overburdened by the consequences of the covid crisis, the energy crisis and the influx of new citizens into their services. The municipalities are also facing enormous financial difficulties, still due to these crises. I thank the Minister for her support and support. Our group strongly supports the reception and solidarity with Ukrainian refugees and is pleased that our State is mobilizing to help these vulnerable people who have faced the horror in their country and who find refuge in our home. It is regrettable, however, that this reception is not the same for all refugees living in the same situation. However, this is already a good step forward for the PS group. Of course, we will support the Minister in her project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Russian aggression in Ukraine continues. In the meantime, 6 million Ukrainian women, children and elderly people are fleeing from their own countries. The Flemish Interest was always in favour and advocate of receiving care in its own region. If a European country is attacked, we remain faithful to that principle. In fact, the countries where our position is government policy do so. More than 3 million Ukrainian refugees are staying in Poland today. Romania and Hungary, respectively, receive 800,000 and 600,000 refugees from Ukraine, trying to escape the violence of war. Nearly 40,000 are now officially registered in Belgium. To what extent these war refugees are actually offering themselves to receive financial support is not yet entirely clear. Figures indicate that at least part of those who do not ask and stay with friends or family members who support them. The figures are also partly distorted due to administrative slowness. After the first wave of direct aid to Ukraine and its refugees, a long-term solution is called for. In this respect, the draft law before us may be a possibility. But is it also the right solution? Asking the question is perhaps answering them. The Flemish interest advocates that temporary displaced persons, as a result of the Ukrainian crisis, should in principle be entitled to collective care, bed, bath, bread and weekly allowance. That is a plea that was also made until recently by other Flemish colleagues. So, no, we're not arguing for an equivalent living wage to be distributed through the OCMW. The perhaps well-intentioned campaign hashtag PlekFree of Secretary of State Mahdi put his finger on the real wound in a painful way. The existing 30,000 sleeping places in our collective shelter centres are full of other asylum and happiness seekers. The place that was no longer present in the current capacity had to be searched by the people at home, with all the possible problems and dangers associated with it. Punishment is an example from my own municipality of Boom. In Boom, Secretary of State Mahdi planned the opening of a new asylum centre, with 167 places. The protest against it was quite massive. Literally all parties from the Boom City Council, my party Flemish Belang, the N-VA, but also CD&V, Groen and Vooruit spoke out against the arrival of this asylum centre. When the violence of war broke loose at the end of February, the same parties were equally united in their belief that we could open these places to Ukrainian women and children in the short term. Then, of course, the monkey comes out of the sleeve. It can't be. Secretary of State Mahdi doesn't want day, because we need those places in Boom to take care of the asylum seekers from Mechelen. Title-leading mayor Somers can close an asylum centre in his city and Boom must offer the space to take them in. Of these asylum and happiness seekers we know that 60% will never get recognition, but only a piece of paper to leave the country. Back to the real war refugees, those from Ukraine. Instead of collective care according to the principle of bed, bath and bread, they are now paid an equivalent living wage, with or without some limited corrections. This support is repaid by the federal government to the local OCMWs. In addition, according to this bill, the OMCWs receive an additional 35 per cent grant from the amount of the grant paid, for the first four months and then 25 per cent to finance their additional costs. The federal government therefore bears all administrative costs and this for a maximum period of two years, but there is no incentive to encourage the OCMWs to possibly reduce their living wage. The less they allocate, the less active they get. With each abbreviation they apply, the relevant OCMW cuts into its own skin. Thus, an OCMW may still link conditions to the award of this equivalent living wage, but there is no incentive to deduct a fee or rent for the accommodation, whether private or organised by the OCMW itself. There is no response. The Flemish Interest calls for solidarity which must be achieved primarily through collective care combined with limited weekly allowance and guidance. Furthermore, giving equivalent living wages to temporary displaced persons through the OMCW has another perverse effect. This sends the wrong message to our own vulnerable population, which is already suffering greatly from falling purchasing power as a result of rising inflation and rising energy prices. The massive award of the equivalent living wage to temporary displaced persons can also in the long term cause disruption and cause injustice to our people. The feeling of justice among the population is all the more important given the risk that the war between Russia and Ukraine may drag on for a long time to come. Moreover, the OMCWs are already facing enormous workload, including due to the energy crisis. In addition, the people with an equivalent living wage would also end up in the regular rental market, which is already under heavy pressure. It is therefore of the utmost importance for its own people to be temporarily excluded from that regular housing market. No matter which method - bed, bath, bread plus weekly pay versus living wage - is the most advantageous budget by budget, the Flemish interest does not in principle choose the living wage for the reasons mentioned above. We will therefore not support the proposal before us today because support for the local OMCWs depends on the level of living wages distributed. That goes too far for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u79	Madam Minister, crises follow one another. The war in Ukraine comes at a time when the pandemic is not yet fully over. We are currently in an unprecedented situation. Indeed, the war in Ukraine is causing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis for today's generations. At present, three million Ukrainians have fled from their country. Europe has assumed its responsibilities in this conflict and has decided, from the very beginning, to activate the subsidiary protection status, which imposes certain obligations on Member States, such as the automatic opening of the right to social assistance. At this stage, our country welcomes more than 36,000 people. Many are received in families and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the generosity and hospitality of the Belgian people and to thank them. I also support local agents. Many of them are sitting in this Parliament. They take on their responsibilities and are confronted with the organization and management of the reception of these families who have had to flee their homes without anything, to whom assistance must be provided on several levels. Among these people fleeing the war, a third have already turned to CPAS. These same CPAS, which for the past two years have been confronted with the covid crisis, floods, inflation and now with war. Two years without respite, during which the workload has only increased over the weeks and months. The Vivaldi government, under the leadership of the Minister of Social Integration, has decided, in this difficult and tense context, to grant an additional measure of support to these many CPAS suffering the full impact of this massive influx of suffering people. As explained by the minister, in our work, and contrary to what might be thought, it is also small CPAS that are on the front line. In concrete terms, CPAS will benefit from an additional intervention equivalent to 35% of the social integration income of the first four months and 25% of the following months over a period of two years. The greatest attention must also be paid to ensuring that the interventions given to CPAS focus strictly on federal jurisdiction. Local authorities will have to be vigilant in this regard, especially since regions, and this is already the case for the Walloon Region, have also granted a grant to the municipalities in order to help them to receive Ukrainians as best they can. All the living forces of the country are mobilizing. Minister, we will be at your side, as here with this bill, to support and facilitate this momentum of solidarity with this unjustly attacked people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u80	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the war in Ukraine continues day after day to make thousands of victims who are forced to flee their country to survive. These people leave most often by taking the strict minimum or simply without anything, in the hope of being able to rebuild themselves after the inevitable trauma of the war. Among these refugees, some have chosen Belgium. Thus, it is no less than 40,000 Ukrainian refugees that our country has welcomed since the beginning of the war. We have thus shown solidarity with many other European countries that have opened their doors, but also with the European Union, which has decided, for the first time, to activate the directive on temporary protection. If this momentum of solidarity is necessary and we can only encourage it, it must be accompanied by measures to ensure that this solidarity actually materializes. Thus, we must enable the actors on the ground who are helping refugees to carry out their missions. Among these actors on the ground, CPAS plays a crucial role in giving refugees, who seek it and who meet the conditions, a social integration income. That is why I welcome the government's initiative in this bill to ensure federal support for social assistance reimbursement for CPAS. This assistance, which will take the form of a package of global aid for CPAS, will cover the costs of file and personnel, basic social assistance and operation, supplementary social assistance such as material assistance, school materials and psychological support, a significant element given the traumatic events experienced by these refugees. On the other hand, it should be ensured that all Ukrainian refugees who require assistance from CPAS are aware of this possibility, since currently, it seems, only 10% of these refugees would have applied for assistance. It was therefore necessary to continue to work with the federated entities in order to make refugees as aware as possible of the full range of social rights they could seek. We must also pay attention to refugees who do not demand income from social integration but who still require other forms of assistance. What is planned for them? We'll pay attention to it. This assistance, Minister, we will support it, although it is imperative that we periodically reassess the adequacy of these complementary grants over the long term and, if necessary, increase them. Finally, it must also be said that, if this aid is necessary, it does not represent a gift. It is simply indispensable because it also partially addresses the many shortcomings arising from the various crises that have occurred in our country's CPAS, the most recent being the health crisis. I hope that we will not have to act indefinitely through crisis peak measures but that a reflection on structural refinancing of the CPAS will be launched. With regard to the reception of refugees among the inhabitants, the DéFI Group obviously welcomes the solidarity of our fellow citizens, which once again demonstrates the Belgians' full support for the Ukrainian people. It must be noted, however, that while in the majority of cases the reception of Ukrainians in a family environment is going well, other situations seem to be more difficult for welcoming families. I would remind you, as long as this is necessary, that this accommodation solution is based solely on the goodwill and solidarity of the citizens. In other words, there is no obligation on the part of individuals to be considered foster families. If this is obviously logical and we do not contest it, these initiatives raise some questions. How can we ensure that Ukrainian refugees are accommodated in good conditions? Are housing suitable? What role do local authorities play in monitoring this reception? What about tensions between host families and refugees, for example, if a host family wants to put an end to accommodation, as has happened before? What is the proposed solution to accommodate these refugees? Let us be careful, this solidarity is more than necessary. We could not, even if we wanted to, do without her. That is why we must continue to supervise it as much as possible as long as the war makes the migration context in Europe unstable. I am thinking, for example, of accompaniment of families or a much wider dissemination of information, in order to bring to their knowledge the various aids which they and their residents can receive. What is certain, however, is that we cannot bet everything on the same horse. As some colleagues have already mentioned in the past, we also need to develop more sustainable alternatives to accommodate refugees, especially the most modest of them. The plight of refugees who receive reception, especially if they do not have sufficient resources, is linked to that of the individuals who host them. I hope, Madam Minister, that the government will anticipate the difficulties that are emerging today. We must not rely on the measures that have already been taken, but on how these measures will evolve in the course of the crisis. Finally, I must point out that, if the project goes in the right direction, it is obviously only a sparadrap on the bliss that the federal government expands a little more each year in the budget of local authorities, including CPAS. As we have seen recently, the Walloon government has seized the Codeco to denounce the federal disinvestment of the matters which belong to it a priori, to the detriment of the local authorities which must now assume the responsibility for them. I hope that the federal government will be able to take full advantage of the issue and do what is necessary to allow the CPAS structurally to hold on to it. In any event, this will obviously not prevent the DéFI group, as I said at the outset, from supporting the bill, whose purpose we approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u81	Madam President, I would like to make a brief statement. I heard some numbers. For those who come to ask for assistance from CPAS, of the 40,000 registrations, 34% need reception. We are monitoring the administration of social integration. Today, 20% are seeking various support from CPAS. It's not 10%. It's not a third party. The current figure is 20 per cent. Also know that many CPAS as well as the SPP Social Integration now have sites in Ukrainian, flyers in Ukrainian. They work proactively towards the Ukrainians they welcome through their citizens in their communes. M. Bombled a raison. It is many small CPAS that take charge, since in more rural areas there is more space to accommodate people. Dear colleague, you are right to thank this citizen solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u82	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u83	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2637/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2637/3) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mrs Ingels, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u86	Madam President, Mr Ingels is indeed referring to the written report. She was also registered as a speaker. It has been withdrawn, but regrets it. It is currently attending the hearing of the Joint Committee on Justice and Home Affairs and cannot possibly be in both places at the same time. This is a point that we must continue to consider when we plan plenary activities in parallel with important committee meetings. I am not, of course, talking about questions in committees, where everyone can go for a moment and then return immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u87	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2495/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2495/8) The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u90	• 9... Ortwin Depootere (2495/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u92	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u93	Joy Donné, Bert Wollants, Sander Loones, Theo Francken, Björn Anseuw, Kathleen Depoorter, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Yngvild Ingels. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (2450/2) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (2450/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u94	The rapporteur is Mr Vermeersch. He shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip178x.u95	Madam President, I have the honour to conclude our lively discussions in plenary on Wednesday with a legislative proposal that was very relevant at the time we submitted it. We also asked for urgency in February. It provided an answer to a question that had long lived with the population at that time, namely to address the purchasing power problem and the energy bill. The government has finally chosen a different path, with an amalgamation of measures. I do not have the illusion that our proposal can make it. I didn't have that illusion in committee either. I will not go into it in detail for very long, but I would like to explain why we thought our alternative was better at the time. Firstly, the effect of our proposal will be felt more quickly, because it works in the personal tax system through the corporate tax. The discount is immediately applicable. We are still waiting for some of the government's measures. They are still not worked out, for example the heating premium. The VAT reduction did not take effect until energy costs were reduced due to the coming spring and summer. Secondly - and this is still very topical - our proposal does not exclude people from the boat, either the social rate or the tax reduction of EUR 500. To date, for example, there is a lot to do about the fact that apartment owners who heat through a collective gas connection fall out of the boat. In the last two weeks questions have been asked about this, including by members of the majority. Well, those consumers will be included in our system. Whoever falls out of the boat and does not qualify for the government's system, are the self-employed. They will be included in our proposal. The residents of residential care centres also fall out of the boat. They will not be compensated for increasing the daily price in the residential care centres that have been implemented since last month. We regret that our proposed measure was not included in the government package, which has disadvantages that were not present in our proposal. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 12, 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 12 May at 2.15 p.m.
