ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I tabled this question before the last Consultation Committee. In recent months, I have been able to ask you several times about the need for such a health crisis decision-making scoreboard. After two years of pandemic, more information is available on the virus, even though, for example, variants are scientific and medical question marks each time for several weeks. Moreover, the duration of the high efficacy of vaccines is also so. In recent months, many politically and judicially challenged decisions have been seen repeatedly. Here we go. Here we are with such a decision-making tool. After more than a year of interrupted discussions, you announced the setting up of a barometer for January 28, 2022. This is an important point for legibility, understanding and even adherence to measures, and this barometer will be the same for all regions of the country. Of course, this tool needs to be readable and has explained and stable criteria. While it is certainly not the miracle tool for making decisions, I hope that the scientific criteria and analyses that have served as the basis for colour codes best correspond to the reality of the spread of the virus in the various sectors. Minister, can you explain the structure of this new tool? Who will manage it? How will it be used precisely in decision-making within the Codeco, in particular on 7 February 2022, to alleviate – or not – the current health measures? What will be the support – and not the control – offered to small structures for the installation of air quality appliances in order to help them and inform them? Can you clarify what Commissioner Corona means when he says that the colour code thresholds will evolve? How and what measures will they ensure the stability and legibility of the barometer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u2	Mr Minister, my original question has already become obsolete. The barometer's here by now. We are pleased with that. Our group has been asking for this barometer since autumn 2020. The barometer indicates a number of phases: the red, the orange and the yellow phase. The yellow phase can be seen as a phase in which the virus is endemic and there are still certain opinions. Minister, will the direction be in the yellow phase with the provinces and local authorities? To what extent do you see this phase apart from the pandemic law? Do you think that's the same thing? Is the pandemic law no longer active? In the yellow phase, the CST falls away. If we have to scale up to the orange or red phase again, will the CST be thoroughly reviewed first? After all, there are increasing doubts about the usefulness of the CST now that we have reached a high vaccination rate. Experts report that, too. To what extent is that taken? Will that be reviewed? Is this gonna go away? Suppose we're back in the yellow phase, hopefully that happens quickly, and we need to scale back to orange or red, can this happen at local level, by county or by municipality? The barometer works with guide values on the degree of hospitalization and the occupation of intensive care. There is always a political decision on this. If there is any doubt about moving from one stage to another, will priority be given to the phase with the least restrictions? In other words, will mental health be given priority? In the yellow phase, vulnerable people are advised to wear FFP2 masks. Do you guarantee there's a sufficient supply of those masks? Is the barometer also linked to a health care barometer? Is that under consideration? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u3	Mr Minister, the reports we read about the coronabarometer raise some questions. So I'm gonna drop right into the house with the door. What criteria ensure the transition from one colour to another? In this respect, you make a division between the IC occupation and hospitalization. We see with omikron that the IC occupation is falling, but that hospitalization is rising. Then what is the threshold to move from one color to another? In other countries such a barometer is no longer found useful. Then why is it being introduced into Belgium? The small print still refers to a possible lockdown, while research shows that this measure did more harm than good. Is a lockdown still provided in the barometer or can we refer it to history? I'd like a little more explanation on that. Why were certain sectors not mentioned in the barometer? We very much regret that the CST is stuck in the barometer, while more and more scientists are working for the abolition of that thing, because it gives a false sense of security. Why do you insist on the CST? You say that the barometer should give perspective and hope to the people and sectors concerned, but why wasn't a green colour introduced? After all, that would be hopeful. Green is also the color of hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u4	Minister, after two years of pandemic, the corona barometer is finally here. It will have to ensure greater predictability and coherence in the corona policy and will only be applied to three sectors, namely catering, youth and culture. It is, of course, better to proceed in this way than in the completely arbitrary way in which some decisions have been taken so far. We are, of course, thinking about the cultural sector. The barometer is only about opening and closing certain activities. In the previous situation, however, no one could follow, so hopefully that will not be the case in the future. One problem that some critics point out is that the decision-making power ultimately remains with the Consultative Committee, whether we are in code red, orange or yellow. It is the government that decides on the stage and the criteria and not Parliament, for example. The Flemish government was not very pleased with the barometer either. It considers that the power of the regions is drawn too much to the federal level in certain colours, triggering the pandemic law. The Standard wrote that if the federal government indicated that it wanted to discharge its decision-making powers in the green phase, that power would not fall into the hands of regional governments, but rather into the provinces and municipalities, which could take more stringent measures locally if necessary. Can you confirm that? On the basis of which criteria were decided which were considered? On what basis were the thresholds agreed? Why didn't the Consultative Committee agree on this? Why is the yellow phase the final phase and why isn't there a green phase? Conversely, why isn't there a darker phase than red, because today we are going to the red phase and there are going to be a lot of relaxations? Why did you confine yourself to essentially criteria on which activities should or should not continue? There are very few sanitary elements included in the barometer. I am talking, for example, about changing the test strategy and building up or phasing out the contact study according to the phase. Why didn't they think about it anymore? Certain quarantine rules may or may not be applied at certain stages. After all, it is also a great frustration on the ground that this is happening so aleatorially. So why has no further thought been given to the other criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u5	Mr President, Minister, a number of points have already been raised. I will therefore stress three particular points. First, I will refer to the choice of code type. There are actually three codes, which means there is no green code. This is clearly lacking because it is quite possible that this pandemic will evolve and no longer require specific measures at any given time, but constant vigilance in terms of contamination. On the other hand, psychologically, not to put a green code, is not to take into account the importance of launching a signal because of course we will not stay permanently in the rules that prevail for the yellow code. It doesn't make sense and I hope you agree with me. I'd like you to clarify things. For if there is only yellow, orange and red, then what about the criteria for being out of barometer? I suggest you add a green layer instead. Secondly, you approach things with a terribly static approach, when we know that in the event of an epidemic, we need a dynamic approach. History has been showing us this for two years. The same number of intensive care hospitals does not mean the same thing if you are in an exponential ascending phase or if you are in a downward phase. So, for example, you know as well as I do, I hope, that in the ascending exponential phase of an epidemic, it has been repeatedly demonstrated that it is necessary to react as soon as possible, allowing for less harsh and time-consuming measures. However, if we wait for the references of the number of hospital beds that you have determined in the ascending phase, this means that unlike an early strategy, we opt for a late strategy with harder and longer measures that will have a much greater impact on both health and the economy. Thirdly, it is a kind of "weather bulletin". But, in essence, the essential thing is not in the "weather bulletin" but rather in the very concrete measures - all levels of power combined - that will have to be put in place and financed to secure and reduce the health risks, place by place, while allowing the continuation of activities. You know that for the past year, I have been advocating for air quality. We're nowhere! It is then a real risk management. Why is there no longer this aspect of risk management, a very concrete support approach to secure and minimize risks, sector by sector, with a proactive policy and financial support?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u6	Mr Minister, like my colleagues, I wanted to ask you about the latest measures taken during the Codeco and, in particular, about this barometer, which was originally supposed to give the sectors perspectives, taking into account their efforts but also the variations and the effect of vaccination on them. This has been a real disappointment, as your barometer intends to standardize health measures in the long term, which, whether desired or not, remain disproportionate and sometimes even unfair. Indeed, while proportionality in the performance and cinema gauge has finally been established, questions remain open, which makes certain sectors afraid of further closures or of remaining closed. I am thinking in particular of the night world, which is once again targeted. In addition to the pressure on our hospitals, the Prime Minister has also made a commitment to take mental health into account. But today we still have no guarantee of how it will actually be. There is therefore a real blur that could have been avoided by the adoption of a barometer on mental health, for which various psychologists had pleaded and on which I had also questioned you, unfortunately without any answer. That is the reason for my many questions. What specific elements are taken into account in this barometer, apart from hospitalizations? In what concrete ways will mental health, disaggregation or immunity acquired by the population through contamination or vaccination be taken into account? Do you confirm that only covid hospitalizations will be taken into account, excluding those hospitalized for other reasons but who are tested positive at the covid upon arrival at the hospital? Why do you always insist on targeting the same sectors? Have you at least evaluated the results of the test events to consider them more or less at risk? How have these sectors been involved in the development of this barometer? Given that the barometer allows a capacity of 100% of rooms in the event of optimal ventilation, is the federal government committed to providing financial support to these sectors for the purchase of complementary ventilation devices? Why has the Covid Safe label, which has been requested by experts for almost a year, never been studied or retained? What about your breakdown plan announced in your policy note? Does this barometer, which acts more like a compass than a binding instrument, ultimately allow Parliament to be more included in decisions, instead of the Codeco having the last word on these measures? Finally, at the end of the Codeco, the Prime Minister also stated that the CST would not be required one day too much. It's a good commitment. But in what way can we hope, in concrete terms, that this barometer will make it possible to fulfil this promise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u7	Do members of other political groups wish to speak at this stage? This will also be possible during the replicas. I don't see anyone. I now give the floor to the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the barometer has been approved by the Consultative Committee and has been explained in detail in the press, I am not presenting the barometer again. Nor do I repeat what criteria we take into account and what the procedure looks like. I will not give an exhaustive answer to all the questions, but I will deal with some points where there are very persistent misunderstandings or possibly misunderstandings in the future. As far as I'm concerned, it's never been the intention to install some kind of autopilot. In the past, I strongly opposed the idea of a barometer that would be an automatism, even in public discussions. People would then find out at home how many hospitalizations there are because of corona. They would then know automatically and immediately what measures they would take. That doesn't work, and we won't work like that. Judging an epidemic is much more complex. Many elements must be taken into account. There is a whole dashboard of data that needs to be assessed, first and foremost by our Risk Assessment Group. Then there is a political decision, based on the assessment of the Risk Assessment Group and other assessments we receive, on the context in which we find ourselves and the measures that fit in with it. The fact that it is not automatic is essential. Mrs Merckx, in your question it is not clear whether you are an opponent or an opponent of an automatism. You say that not the Consultative Committee, but Parliament should take those decisions. That is a particularly impractical proposal. It is not workable to call Parliament every time to decide on a forthcoming package of measures. Parliament must control the executive. The government and the executive have the political responsibility to take action and the barometer is a policy-oriented framework. That is a framework that provides policy orientation. It ensures better policy preparation and thus more predictability. The essence of a barometer is that more predictability is obtained because measures that can be taken when the situation gets worse or when the situation gets better, are described in advance, discussed, identified, put on paper. The sectors know what to expect. That clarity is important. The decision on which package of measures is effectively put into effect cannot be left to a computer program or group of experts. That decision must be made politically on the basis of a view of the whole situation. I would like to stress that very strongly. I would also like to stress that, of course, the assessment takes into account not only how much virus circulates, but also many other data, such as social data, economic data and the importance of mental well-being. Mrs Rohonyi, I find it a bit tiring to ask you this, but on what data do you rely on? What are the mental health data? Please consult the documents that are published. Read the reviews. All this is included in the preparatory work. As a reminder, a mental assessment group (MAG) has been set up in GEMS, comprising experts from universities, administrations, social actors, occupational health experts, Sciensano, etc. This mental assessment group collected a wide range of qualitative and quantitative information on mental health and the use of health care capacity. Ten reports on mental health have been published on the dedicated website since the beginning of 2021, with a series of indicators and data! But you keep repeating that we're not doing anything about mental health and you're still wondering where to find the data. Please consult the work of GEMS, with its ten published reports on mental health! These include a set of quantitative and qualitative data that have been incorporated into the GEMS opinions and thus also integrated into the preparation of our decisions via the reports and notes of the Office of the Commissioner Corona. It's a bit tiring to have to repeat the same answer all the time! Similarly, with regard to motivation, 38 reports have been published so far on this barometer. For us, this is also an integral part of our preparation when, on the basis of these reports, we propose and discuss measures within the Codeco. Mr President, I repeat it again in Dutch because this is a persistent misunderstanding. I read that also in manifestos that are published. It is clear that these people have never read the advice in question. We're not just basing ourselves on the circulation of the virus. This is, of course, an essential fact in itself, since it is all about the disease it causes. However, ten reports on mental well-being and mental health during the covid crisis have already been published by the GEMS, with numerous indicators and data that are taken into account. Both the GEMS and the Coronac Commissioner take it into account in the proposals they formulate, and so does politics. The same applies to motivation. 38 reports have already been published on the motivation of the population, and whether there is much or little support for the measures proposed or taken. I therefore find it extremely strange that it is repeated here and there that there would be a tunnel vision that is attached to it. Mrs Gijbels, of course, on the basis of the indicators on the table, it is possible to doubt whether we are in code red or code orange or yellow. We are looking, in particular, at two indicators, which are key indicators, because this is essentially about protecting our health care and ensuring that all citizens continue to have access to good health care. A first key indicator is indeed the number of new hospitalizations due to covid. These hospitalizations, as you rightly pointed out, indicate the dynamics. The second indicator refers to the proportion of our capacity in intensive care taken by patients with covid. These two key indicators can indeed point in a different direction, as we are currently finding. The pointer on intensive care points to a code orange. The pointer on the new hospitalizations because of covid then points to a code red, even very strongly to code red. An overall assessment must therefore be made. It is not just a question of choosing, Mrs Gijbels, the package of measures that one considers to be the most beneficial for mental well-being. No, on the basis of the hands, which indeed point in different directions, an assessment is made of the epidemiological situation and consideration is given to mental well-being. I would add that the idea that mental well-being can only benefit from a course of relaxation is a little strange. People must be reassured, above all, with regard to our ability to control and control the situation properly. There are also people who are afraid of an uncontrolled situation, often older people who are worried about an epidemic that they feel is out of control. If the situation in schools is not under control because the virus is going around at a very rapid rate, it is, of course, a cause of mental distress. That in itself is a problem that gives rise to feelings of uncertainty and fear. The idea that people should be eased as much as possible and take as little measures as possible to support people's mental well-being is, frankly, rather strange. Above all, people must feel that the situation is under control, indeed with a minimum of restrictions on our freedom, with a maximum possibility of living a normal life. That's what this is about. So we absolutely did not want to introduce an autopilot. That's the first misunderstanding. There's been a second misunderstanding. It is absolutely nonsense that mental well-being is not taken into account, that there are no data on this and that Mrs Rohonyi has been asking for it for a year without any result. In the meantime, there are a great deal of such data, already in ten reports. Thirdly, if the indicators point in different directions, are we going to have to opt for the most freedom and relaxation? No, we are making an assessment which also takes account of the dynamics of the situation. Of course it is today. Today we actually see a stabilisation at a fairly high level of occupation of our intensive care by patients infected with covid and a very high number of hospitalizations by covid. The good news is that hospitalizations, in proportion to the number of infections, are much less extensive than they used to be, that apparently they are also often accompanied by less serious diseases and a less long stay in the hospital. When it comes to omikron, the infections also give much less reason to stay on intensive care. That's the good news. However, there is still a huge wave of infections, which makes me say that we are certainly doing well to make decisions based on code red. However, we also have degrees of freedom in code red. The barometer does not say that one can only make a single kind of decision. There are forks and possibilities within which the Consultation Committee makes choices. We still have to be very concerned today about the impact of a totally uncontrolled omikron wave if we were to allow this to happen on absenteeism at work and on the continuity of key sectors, education and care. That is also why I believe that it is necessary to take a number of decisions quickly that allow hospitals and other companies to continue to operate, despite the growing shortage of staff. It is the government's intention to come forward with proposals on this matter quickly. We hope that Parliament will be able to take decisions quickly so that additional staff can be deployed temporarily and exceptionally flexibly. I can say the following about the more specific questions. Firstly, the idea that the barometer and all the measures are directed solely towards the closure or opening of certain sectors is, in my view, incorrect. On the contrary, I think that an important step forward has just been taken with this debate on the barometer. Instead of saying that we are going to open or close a whole sector, we will first of all differentiate on the basis of the type of activity in a certain sector. Secondly, in sectors, differentiation will be based on the capacity of ventilation. In this regard, Mrs Rohonyi referred to an idea that had already been launched a long time ago, according to which it might be necessary to work on the basis of labels and to differentiate in the sectors those who are able to remain open during an epidemic and those who are unable to do so. In this case, the ventilation capacity should be taken into account. It is on this point that the debate within the Codeco has, in my view, reached an extremely important stage, because we are going to differentiate within the sectors on the basis of ventilation capacity. I know that ventilation is an important challenge, but I believe that the decisions made and the gauges defined are realistic for a range of infrastructures and sectors. Are we already planning a label? No, but in the draft bill that I have tabled in the government and that we are debating with the federated entities, the idea of labeling is absolutely essential. The idea that I am defending in this preliminary draft consists, as a first step, of legislating on metrics, of the need for a CO2 meter in certain infrastructures, and then of working on the basis of a labelling which will indicate which rooms, which establishments are capable of ventilating enough indoor air. It is only in a third stage that I believe it is necessary to impose measures and standards and to provide for the sanctions attached to them. That's my idea. I cannot say much about a preliminary draft law because the text is not yet public. I am currently discussing him with the Länder. My idea is indeed that the first step in air quality policy must be to provide measuring instruments, the so-called CO2 meters, everywhere. In the next step one should indeed go to a system of labelling. For example, rooms, infrastructures, cafes and restaurants are allowed to determine the quality of ventilation they can achieve. This will enable the public to be informed and also facilitate inspection. That is what I think we should do. When the legislative initiative comes, it is broader and more permanent in nature than what lies ahead with the barometer. This is a policy of ventilation, specifically rooted in an epidemic situation. That brings me to your comments, Mrs Gijbels. We must beware of terminological confusion, with which I did not say that you do. You're saying that if we're in the yellow phase of the barometer, it means that the virus has become endemic. To be honest, I wouldn't say that. I'd be a little careful with that terminology. I asked the Commissioner to clear that up. A virus is endemic when it comes back regularly. Endemic means we're dealing with a seasonal phenomenon. That is the meaning of endemic, no more or no less. So it's not because the virus would be endemic, that we're in a green or yellow phase. It's also not because we're in a green or yellow phase, that the virus is endemic. That's actually something else. So it's different discussions. Endemic means the virus comes back regularly. Our barometer says something about the severity of a virus's circulation at a specific time, whether it's endemic or not. We should also be a little careful when identifying red, orange and yellow with the activation of the pandemic law or not. It seems obvious to me that code red requires the pandemic law to be activated. It also seems quite obvious to me that code orange at least raises the question of whether the pandemic law should not have been activated. That's pretty obvious. We must pay attention to making some sort of clichéd connection. The pandemic law is a legal basis for taking measures at federal level in an epidemic emergency. A pandemic means that the virus has spread worldwide. So, pandemic law is actually a wrong word. It is a law that gives possibilities to the federal government in an epidemic emergency, which is also the right name for that law. The word pandemic doesn't occur there. The word endemic doesn't exist either. A virus that is endemic can also give rise to an epidemic emergency at a certain time. So we really need to keep these terms apart and pay attention to the vocabulary. I'd like to warn you a little bit about simplism. The barometer describes, to begin with, levels of threat by circulation of a virus. The barometer doesn't say if there's a pandemic or not. The barometer doesn't say if that virus is endemic or not. The barometer describes the potential risks to the healthcare system, with different levels of risk and what to do. Mrs Gijbels, I will follow you when it comes to the following. The barometer is an instrument that will sometimes be placed in the closet, because one has nothing to do with the circulation of a virus in which one has to think about yellow, orange or red. Actually, that's what you described as green. There will then be no significant circulation of a virus and we will have to ask ourselves whether we are in yellow, orange or red. Yellow means that there is circulation of a virus and that the situation is under control. The barometer with yellow-orange red is an instrument that hopefully can end up quietly in a closet at some point and perhaps be removed at another time. Let me be clear. For most people, using a corona pass is part of a code red or a code orange and not part of what we describe as a code yellow. That is quite clear, although there will still be a lot of discussion about this in the future. I would just like to add the following considerations. A coronapas or perhaps later, after the debate on this, which we have not yet had, a coronapas based solely on the vaccination certificate, i.e. simply a vaccination certificate, is like an umbrella that remains in the umbrella stand in good weather, like all other measures. A barometer doesn't make much sense if you don't have a collection of umbrellas in the umbrella stand. The instrument of the coronapas, which may later be reduced to the instrument of the vaccination certificate, on which Parliament still needs to think, should be available. The umbrella must be ready in the umbrella stand in bad weather. It must not be discarded when the weather is good. It must not be taken to the garbage when the weather is good. It's gotta stay calm. This is the plea I would like to make when it comes to whether or not a barometer or whether or not a coronapas. A coronapas will be necessary in some circumstances, such as the umbrella is picked up in some circumstances. If the umbrella is not necessary, it shall not be disposed of on the container park. It stays quiet and well in the umbrella stand. We will therefore have to keep packages of measures, such as a coronapas, ready for when necessary, but we will not always have to use them. Frankly, the logic is that when we are in a situation of code yellow, especially when we place the barometer in the cupboard, we will not use a coronapas, I suppose. That must be very clear. Meanwhile, our society is moaning under the virus. Our education is also groaning underneath it. We will discuss this tomorrow. In any case, I have already explained publicly that at the moment, and on a temporary basis, the quarantine measures in education are becoming dysfunctional. Children who are infected must remain in isolation at home. I also think that if we do not temporarily use quarantine measures in education, we will have to be twice as strict and perhaps more ambitious in other areas. I am thinking, for example, of the vaccination of children, which we will come back to later. So if we want to keep the schools running without quarantine rules, we will have to use twice as hard on vaccination of the children. Then we will have to be very careful to restart other possibilities, such as extracurricular overnight activities, and then the whole society will have to be very careful. Telework, for example, will clearly have to be maintained for a long time to come. As a society, we must give something to keep the schools open. That is also part of the debate that we will have tomorrow at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. There are a number of responses, Mr President, to what has been said in the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u9	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given. I note that in this barometer there are indicators for intensive care capacity but also for new covid hospitalizations and mental health, and that there is a need for a comprehensive assessment. I understand that there is not only the key to opening and closing decisions; there is also some room for manoeuvre to make political decisions on a scientific basis. That's very good. But you're not answering my question about small structures and ventilation. You are talking about labelling, CO2 sensors, the imposition of strict standards and sanctions. However, I would have liked to hear from you about the aids and the information to be given to these smaller structures. What I have also noted in recent days, as for a long time through this pandemic, is that there is always a communication problem. Setting up the barometer is a very good thing, and we have been many to ask for it and to support you in this process for a long time. However, since the barometer has barely been decided and has not yet been implemented – but it is very soon – Commissioner Corona announced yesterday, I think, that we will probably still be in yellow code by March. "They would be," conditionals and crystal ball-like announcements are, in my view, to be avoided for our population who have difficulty finding themselves there, who must anticipate better through this tool, which is not the only solution but which can allow everyone to have perspectives. Let us stop, of grace, blurring the tracks and giving hope to non-centralized communications! This communication is essential to ensure the best chance of success for all these tools you are deploying to manage this crisis at best. On the other hand, the question has been asked about the role of the mayors, but I think everyone has understood what it is. On the other hand, these mayors – and this is a staggering demand – would like to know the exact role of the governors in the implementation of the measures that are decided. For example, I am a mayor of a municipality in Hainaut. Carnivals are extremely important to us. We apply the rules as they are dictated to us and with all the duty that this implies, but from one common to another, each one raises the question of whether we are able to apply all the rules that are in the red code in terms of carnival. We need consistency in our territory. It seems to us that the governor's role is either not sufficiently clarified or perhaps not sufficiently integrated. Could you bring up the information, provide me with the answer, or discuss it with your colleagues? This role is very important to clarify and articulate to all mayors so that a level of decision-making power can be achieved between the federal, the regions and the communes, which allows for a degree of uniformity in a territory wider than the commune. Often, one feels alone in the implementation of the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u10	Minister, you say that the barometer will be able to go back into the closet at some point. I hope so with you. I understand it could come out of the closet again. Can this happen, for example, in the event of an influenza epidemic? Who's gonna decide? I feel like we're about to end up on a slippery slope. I think that this should be preceded by a debate. This also affects the area of the Communities. About the vaccination certificate you say it should be ready and as the umbrella in the umbrella stand should be ready. Does that also apply to influenza? Where's the border? To what extent does that remain a federal jurisdiction? I have real doubts about that. You have not answered my question as to whether a scaling-up from the yellow phase to orange or red can also take place at provincial or municipal level. You have given a broad answer to my question as to whether priority should be given to the phase with the least restrictions of freedom in the event of doubt. You say that mental well-being is not only determined by the degree of freedom, but also by the feeling that people feel protected and safe. I admit that is a difficult balance. At the same time, you take this stage to make an extensive statement about the Winter Manifesto. I'm sorry about that. Apparently, you're not open to a debate. There are so many people from different disciplines with different expertises who want to participate in a thorough debate on this issue. You point out that you have always taken account of their comments and so there is no problem. I'm sorry to hear that. I hope that you will change your mind on this and that you will be open to what they can contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u11	This has not been clarified and I have even more questions than before. You're saying you want to clear up with the coronabarometer. Finally, after two years, we may indeed be clear, but unfortunately I can also see that you are building another back door. You say that there must be sufficient room for manoeuvre, that it does not work on autopilot and in the press you also said that the measures can always be stricter than the barometer indicates. In other words, you have given the various sectors a proverbial lollipop that will keep them sweet for a while. In the end, little will change. I'm not saying anything's gonna change. But you will continue to do what you want. One of the thresholds is the number of hospitalisations. You say that the figures of the ICU and the number of hospitalizations can run apart. You also stress that these patients are hospitalised because of covid. Minister, I would like you to clarify this at last. In the meantime, do we have the figures? Were the covid patients who are now being counted all hospitalized because of covid contamination, or are they also patients who, for example, are hospitalized for a new hip and found infected with corona after a test? After two years, it's still not clear. If you have those figures, I would like you to share them with Parliament, but I fear you will not answer me. With the coronabarometer, the health pass is also connected. The health pass continues to evolve into what the Jewish star was in the 1930s and 1940s. If you don't have a green check mark, you won't be allowed anywhere. The green check mark is only given when you have walked 3 times past the vaccination register; so not after 2 times, as you promised, but after 3 times. That is absurd, given that vaccination does not stop the transmission and that the CST or health card gives a false sense of safety and does not stop the virus. I'm also concerned that you're talking about a virus. You say that the barometer is sometimes in the closet and that it is removed from the closet when a virus is circulating. Speak against me, Minister, but I fear we are on a slippery slope here. A world without viruses does not exist, so the coronabarometer will also be removed from the closet when a heavy flu is coming. Or is it a real corona barometer and can it stay in the closet if there is no longer a corona? I hope you will be able to answer me in the affirmative. So it's a real coronabarometer and not a virus barometer? You also stress that these measures are very important in order to control the virus and to protect people and so on. However, you are not talking about investments in health care, not about more hands on beds, which we have talked about so many times. All measures are good, but investing in care is not necessary. That's where you're gonna miss the ball. The first measure to be taken is to invest in care and ensure that there is sufficient capacity there. So invest your time and money in that instead of in absurd steps and absurd barometers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u12	You said, Minister, that you did not want to go into too much detail. I have listened to the press conference and I have also been informed, but many things are still not clear to me. You did not tell us about the powers and the level at which color commands in the barometer. Nor did you say anything about the fact that there is no green or black zone. At some point the cultural sector of this country was completely closed down, but such a measure is not now in the barometer. That's too bad. Maybe you have a website where we can find that detailed information? If so, I'd like to know it. You also did not address the question of why specific measures are included in the barometer and other sanitary measures are not. Why, for example, do not self-tests become free from a certain frequency in a given code? What is the policy of testing, tracing and quarantine in a given code? You said the CST is an umbrella you can't throw away. However, a tracing policy, for example, cannot just be put in the closet and be taken out again. The health structure needs to be considered in the long term. For example, how can we switch to the tracing policy if necessary, so that we do not get back into the same problems we are facing now? In conclusion, I would like to say that you have found some sort of system to facilitate a number of meetings rather than control the whims of certain politicians. It should also facilitate the consultation committee, which in itself is a good thing. However, there are still a lot of questions to be asked about this system. The question is effective as to why the power remains with the Consultative Committee. You say that decisions cannot be taken by Parliament. However, I do not see why, for example, Parliament could not occasionally come together to endorse the measures proposed by the Consultative Committee, possibly amend them and validate them with a vote. After all, there is only one kind of reporting now. We know the consequences of this. We have seen what has happened to the cultural sector and that the Council of State has had to reverse that decision. A lot of measures taken were also absurd. Finally, you also mentioned the schools. I would like to make a comment on this. What's going on with our schools is pretty dramatic. They're closing massively. I also just got the message that my son was sent home because his class is closing. However, he has recently had a corona infection. So normally he shouldn't go into quarantine. That is also the result of the decision taken a few weeks ago, namely not to make the self-tests available and to leave the people to their fate. There was then a survey showing that only 8% of the people who applied self-testing would apply. People also have a lot of questions about the self-tests. This must of course be framed and the tests must be available. I hope that you will finally decide not only on the quarantine rules but also on them. Other countries show that things can be different. A country like Denmark does self-tests twice a week in children. As a result, it manages to keep the classes as open as possible and ensures that the children can go to school as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u13	Mr President, before speaking in the context of my reply, I would like to say how deeply shocked I was to hear the comments made, a moment ago, by a member of this committee who compared vaccination with the Shoah by referring to David's star. This kind of talk is horrifying to me! It is a demonstration of total disrespect for the suffering inflicted on the Jews, but also in view of the current scientific challenges, in particular the vaccination that has saved thousands of lives. Is it worth recalling that with covid, the risk of being hospitalized when unvaccinated is 1 in 5, the risk of dying is 1 in 50, while when vaccinated, the risk of being hospitalized is 1 in 10,000, and the risk of dying is 1 in 30,000? To hear this kind of talk in a health committee is to vomit! I mean it, I say it and I assume it. Minister, I come back to the discussion on the barometer. I will continue to argue for a green code to be added to the latter or for a very clear definition from when the barometer can be set aside. As far as I am concerned, I am rather in favour of the green code, given the way in which viruses of this nature spread, with respiratory transmission, in the context of a global pandemic. This kind of virus does not stop at small Belgium, which is not an island. With such a code, all measures are abandoned, but vigilance is still needed in terms of epidemiological monitoring, since the whole global dynamic must be taken into account. As far as risk management is concerned, a barometer is a photo. In my opinion, the essential thing is to secure and minimize the risks in public places. I am talking about any kind of place without it being yet fair and always talking about a law that provides for standards and sanctions. There is a need for concrete operational measures, with support from all levels of federal government in the communes, including financial ones. This is about measures to minimize risks and improve air quality. This policy should not simply be part of the co-vid. This is a medium- and long-term public health policy. In fact, it is in the interests of both health and economics that this type of approach be put in place as a matter of urgency. Not doing this is about saving a lot of candlesticks that will really cost us a lot more, and not just as part of the covid-19. Finally, Mr. Chair, the minister provided a very long response by addressing many issues. The minister referred to the CST, but since I have no right to reply here, I ask that a topical question be asked about it. As far as children are concerned, the situation in schools is indeed quite catastrophic. Nevertheless, even if we are not in this debate, I think that this situation is still the result of a series of decisions taken by the various Ministers of Health and Education and, above all, of non-measures. As far as CO2 sensors are concerned, it took a long time for them to be placed and not everywhere. On the other hand, there is no ventilation policy in schools, while there is clear scientific evidence that an effective ventilation policy in schools drastically reduces contamination. The situation would probably not be as catastrophic as it is today if this kind of policy had been put in place in time, and we have had every indication to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u14	Minister, I thank you for your long reply, which, despite everything, calls for some reflections and obliges me to bounce back on some of your statements. When you say that the barometer will not make the sanitary measures automatic, only the future will tell us. What I am convinced, however, is that this tool will automatically make it possible to deprivate the parliamentary debate on health measures. It is not only a member of the opposition who tells you this, but also experts like Mr Coppieters, who accompanied us for a long year as part of our work on the Special Commission Covid-19, and who sees this barometer as a tool to justify measures rather than as a tool for anticipation. I therefore believe that this is more a political instrument than a tool for real risk management. When you say that this barometer is based on reports about the mental health of the population, the message I wanted to convey to you was not to say that nothing had been done about mental health support, not at all. On the other hand, we still do not see, through this barometer, how these same reports have been taken into account in practice. Moreover, it has been seen throughout this crisis management that, on several occasions, GEMS reports have not been taken into account at all by the Codeco and the measures that could result from this barometer have remained the same since the beginning of this crisis, regardless of the progress of vaccination, regardless of the natural immunity acquired by the population, regardless of the efforts made by the sectors in particular in terms of ventilation. I therefore doubt whether mental health and sectors that have been closed for months or that remain closed today have been taken into account, regardless of the efforts made by those same sectors. You have still not answered me about the evaluation and the results that have been followed by the real danger with regard to the test events that have taken place in these sectors. You also tell us that the barometer no longer targets certain sectors in particular but the ventilation capacity of the establishments, that a ventilation bill is expected and would therefore be in line with this famous label Covid Safe which my party has been calling for almost a year now. This is very good, but I regret that this label is only arriving so late. It has been expected for more than a year, at the cost of how many bankruptcies in the sectors concerned and who have invested in these schemes. And yes, Minister, we can see that the same sectors are always laughing! In particular, culture and not, for example, public transport, while culture has always been recognized as the most secure sector, through numerous studies. Finally, I will end with the CST because there is a connection with this barometer. The Prime Minister promised, with his mouth in mind, that it would not be used one day too much. Finally, should we see this barometer, as you say, as an instrument that serves as an umbrella when we need it and can be stored when we no longer need it? At the same time, however, you have strengthened this CST and nothing tells us that it will remain temporary, as recommended by the Council of State in particular. There is nothing to tell us that when contamination increases again, especially because of the seasonality of the virus, it will not be reactivated even then - and on this subject I have not received a response either - that this CST has never been evaluated, in any case its impact on both contamination and accession to vaccination. This is a matter of particular concern when it is known that you intend to turn this CST into a vaccine pass, but this, at least on this issue, will be debated by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u15	Do other members still wish to speak for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u16	Minister, the fact that the barometer is here today is good for the predictability and logic of the measures, but we have to admit that the work is far from finished. There are other areas and sectors that also deserve predictability and logic. The question is, how does the CST fit the barometer? From when can we put the CST in the fridge, or in the umbrella stand, as you yourself said? Minister, if we go outside during a heavy rain shower, we don't just need an umbrella. Then we also need sturdy boots and a raincoat. I do see the first step of this barometer as an umbrella, but I think that umbrella should be part of a whole plan for that heavy rain shower, and that we still have a lot of work ahead of us. I hope that we will not need this work in the short term, but in the autumn perhaps there will be a next wave and we can better prepare our rain plans for a time when there was no acute need for it. That's what we learned from the special covid committee. To say it with the words of corona Commissioner Pedro Facon: in peacetimes, the best plans for war are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u17	Minister, we would almost forget that you are an economist and not a virologist. You have given a great explanation about an "endemic" virus. An endemic virus, Minister, becomes epidemic when it grows exponentially. So will you also apply the pandemic law to influenza, as my colleague has just asked? Is this the hidden agenda we're supposed to assume here? That is a question of fact, Minister. You have frightened me very much with your answer, because you go very far in your reasoning about this pandemic law. We fully agree that 'pandemic law' is the wrong term, but also that the content of that pandemic law is completely antidemocratic. You're going very far. You give the example of an endemic virus that, when it rises exponentially, can become epidemic. To what extent can you give the people the confidence they need?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u18	Perhaps I should have said it aboundingly, Mrs Depoorter or Mrs Gijbels, but I found it improbably obvious. The name of this barometer is 'coronabarometer', which is also so noted by the Consultation Committee. It's not a barometer for any virus. I didn't think I should say that, but if you need to be reassured, I'd like to add that. Furthermore, the Consultative Committee has also said that we will use the barometer in its current form until the end of June. In the meantime, we'll permanently evaluate him. We assume we'll do it with this schedule until the end of June, but maybe we'll put it in the closet before the end of June. We agree on the terminology, I think. An endemic virus can constitute a serious epidemic and can create an epidemiological emergency. You are right to speak of the alleged pandemic law, because that law actually refers to an epidemiological emergency, not a global emergency. The fact that we agree on terminology is already very helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u19	Mrs Depoorter, the Minister has spoken and others have already spoken about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u20	But no answer has been given, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u21	He did answer, but you may not like it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u22	I asked whether the pandemic law would be applied to an influenza epidemic and whether it was the federal government's vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u23	Read that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u24	Minister, everyone knows what we are talking about when it comes to lung covid. These are symptoms that linger and that people suffer from in the long term, at a time when the disease should actually have been overcome. We think of tiredness, shortness of breath, headaches and also mental symptoms such as anxiety and depression. In May 2021, at the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Parliament adopted a resolution calling for recognition for patients suffering from long covid. The resolution calls not only for recognition of the condition, but also for greater awareness of the condition, so that patients can be helped more quickly. The emphasis is on a multidisciplinary approach. It is crucial that we support further research so that patients can count on the best care provision. That was in May 2021, we thought it was time for a state of affairs. In what way do the latest research results best describe long-term covid? What symptoms dominate now? How long does the condition last on average? Are there any new numbers left so many months later? Do you have any idea of the number of patients suffering or suffering from long-term covid in our country? We looked at the figures at the time, but they undoubtedly evolved. A number of studies show that people who had little or no symptoms at initial infection may eventually suffer from prolonged covid. Do you have a visual on the number of patients in that situation? Children are not spared either. Do you have any idea how many children have suffered or suffered from long-term covid? In what way is it diagnosed on a long-term covid? In what way are these patients supported in their needs? Is that about to happen or is that still being worked on? Is that gonna be improved? In the meantime, how does this work with the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u25	"Mr. Minister, contamination at Covid-19 continues to increase and, with them, patients with Covid-long. Indeed, the long-term symptoms of Covid would affect 10 to 15% of people infected with the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u26	•How are the psychological aspects of long Covid being taken care of in other hospitals?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u27	Minister, my question concerns the follow-up to the resolution adopted on 20 March 2021 in the Committee on Health concerning patients suffering from long covid. In particular, the resolution provided for an examination within INAMI of whether the costs of long covid could be integrated into the maximum amount to be charged to patients or to increase the accessibility of rehabilitation programmes. A working group of mutualities, patient representatives, an association of general practitioners and others was set up. Minister, what is the status of the discussions in this working group? What is the status of the 14 requests for resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u28	On 16 March we adopted a resolution to examine, among other things, how the costs can be included in the maximum invoice and to make rehabilitation programmes and physical therapy more accessible. At the end of October, there was not much progress. You said that further insight into the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of treatment was needed. You also said that the guidelines should be based on evidence based practices. What is the status of these directives? What are the results of the trials of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE) on the treatment of long-term covid in relation to the improvement of cognitive functions, nutrition and locomotor rehabilitation and change in functional exercise tolerance? You also said: "As part of this journey of care, we will examine the need to reimburse physiotherapy". This is indeed a very important demand of patients with long covid. Will measures be taken quickly for physiotherapy sessions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this is an issue that was brought to our attention last year in the spirit of Mr Rohonyi and Mr Fonck, and on which we, as a majority, were very happy to cooperate. In the meantime, I am even more concerned about this because I personally refrain from doing so. It doesn't just belong to us, it belongs to everyone. The United Kingdom came out with figures last week, showing that for the first 18 months of the pandemic in health care almost 2 million days of absence were already counted. The Finnish government also said at the beginning of this year that the health-related and economic consequences of long covid will drag on for a long time to come. We're worried about that. I have a number of questions with which I may be too early to transfer them to our country. Do you have any idea how many working days have been lost in our country due to the long-term consequences of COOVID-19? Do you have a visual on how many patients with long-term COVID-19 losers? How is that mapped out? What about the ongoing initiatives? Are additional initiatives needed? We were very concerned about this last year, but everyone knows now patients who are still unable to participate in their work or in society for months after the infection. Will the current initiatives succeed or will additional initiatives be needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the Knowledge Centre carried out research on people dealing with long-term covid some time ago. One of the recommendations was that a bilan of people with long covid should be drawn up, referring to tailor-made care. That bilan should be made up by specialised centres. The Knowledge Centre recommends that the follow-up of those patients would occur within the first line. Has anything happened to that? Where are we with that? Do we have such centres to make those bilans? Do you have any idea how big the impact is and how many people have to do with it? What about those people with the cost and affordability of their care? Any problems reported? Are there any plans for remedial action? Finally, are there any breakthroughs with regard to the mechanisms for establishing the long-term covid? Do we know anything about that from a medical point of view? Are there certain therapies that are more effective than others and on which we may be able to use them further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u31	Mr President, I would like to join the questions rather than the replies. Indeed, in substance, I will ask a question in the form of a path to be drawn. You know I'm trying to move the long lines, minister. Colleagues have joined and that is a good thing. We now have data from recent international literature, which are increasingly being added. I'm not going to do a topo of the numbers here, but we have evidence based. The worst would be to pretend that this does not exist or that it is annoyance, even though there is an emergency, on the one hand it is to learn how to diagnose long covid, to ensure multidisciplinary follow-up and, on the other hand, to have a clear approach that will enable us to concretise and implement, in particular, non-drug therapies that are already producing results. The revalidation and care of physiotherapists is therefore a major issue. As you know, for a long time I have pleaded for adequate care to be offered, to the extent of the needs at the level of physiotherapists, and I continue to do so. I'm not talking about a few sessions and an amputated refund. I think that will save you a lot of money in terms of public health. Not to do so, not to move forward, not to further support the possibilities of kinestherapeutic care, is to save candlesticks in the very short term, and to pay it much more in the medium and long term. I take this opportunity today to put some pressure on this and try to move the lines again. All right, you're studying, but there's a lot of study at the international level. Now it may be necessary to continue these studies, but above all to support people in practice according to the lines I have drawn, especially the patients concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u32	Do other members want to intervene? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u33	Fortunately, most people recover from covid-19, but there is also a growing group of people who continue to have persistent symptoms after three months. However, knowledge of long covid remains partial. That is why it is important to work together and share knowledge and ideas. It is clear that there is a psychological impact. There, too, we may not know everything yet. It is known that such significant psychological effects also occur with other infectious diseases, so that the approach does not necessarily have to be different, but it obviously has to be there. Since there is always a need to deepen scientific knowledge in this area, you know that KCE has been in charge of a research project to describe knowledge about long covid and to assess its impact and to find out how to help patients. The aim of this study was to provide policy makers with information to help them make decisions on how to organize the care and reimbursement of people with long covids. The study was also intended to inform caregivers and the general public about the scientific knowledge of this new pathology. KCE Report No. 344 of 26 October 2021 makes a number of recommendations, including, for example, the development of an interdisciplinary holistic assessment for patients suspected of having long-term covid which aims to direct them towards the most appropriate care path on the basis of the scientific knowledge available at that time. The current possibilities for evaluation and revalidation of patients with psychological or neurocognitive consequences after covid-19 are briefly described in chapters 5.2, 5.4 and 6.2 of the KCE report synthesis. Physicians of the main specialties concerned (pneumologists, infectious disease specialists, neurologists, specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation, etc.)Therefore, physiotherapists, psychologists and social workers can prepare a general assessment of the patient in consultation with his or her attending physician. This assessment would allow for an accurate assessment of the patient's functional needs and an appropriate and coordinated management tailored to the needs of the patient. The evaluation should be carried out in specialized centres, but the prescribed treatments and follow-up should take place in the first line whenever possible. The recommendations are examined in more detail by my services. Hospitals are already working with the front line sector on a comprehensive rehabilitation programme. A working group of INAMI is currently working on organizational arrangements. In addition, the Belgian evidence-based practice network is working on the development of a revalidation and care guideline for the first line of care. The results of the initiative taken by the Iris Sud hospitals will certainly be monitored and taken into account. In addition, following the KCE report, KCE Trials, the KCE's non-commercial clinical trial funding program, launched a call for projects and selected three randomized clinical studies for funding to determine which treatments and interventions could be effective to assist patients with long covid symptoms. One of these three studies, the CovCOG study, will treat patients with cognitive difficulties and propose an intervention based on psychoeducation, an approach that aims to inform the various factors involved in the symptoms and to empower patients to better manage their recovery. Then I come to Mrs Jiroflée's relatively precise questions about what we now know about the link between vaccination and lung covid. You should know that the results of the Sciensano report are the first results of a study to be carried out until April 2023. Those initial results show that there is no significant relationship between the number of doses of the COVID-19 vaccine at the time of the infection, whether it is zero, one or two doses between 30 April and 20 June 2021, and whether or not it has long-term covid three months later. So we don't see the link between being infected and being long-term, and the meditative role of the vaccines in that. At this stage, these analyses relate to relationships and associations. In fact, we cannot yet draw any conclusions about causality. The Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care (KCE) and Sciensano have made a brief review of the literature on this relatively new and therefore hardly documented subject. The question is not only whether there is a lung covid or not, there are also a lot of different symptoms. People with prolonged covid may experience respiratory, neurological or gastrointestinal symptoms. It may also be possible that vaccination status is related to certain symptoms and not to others, but at present, on the basis of the available data, we are not yet clear on this. So we can't draw any final conclusions on the incidence of long-term covid after vaccination. The number of publications is limited, they are observational in nature, and also methodologically there are important limitations. It is very important, and I must repeat this in order to avoid misunderstandings, that all the studies available confirm that vaccination does not partially protect 100 per cent, but to a large extent it protects against infection and especially against serious forms of COOVID-19. This is of course a basic point when we talk about lung covid, but it is not clear what the prevalence of long-term covid is after breakthrough infection, nor what the need for care or the impact on quality of life is. The same applies a fortiori to the impact of a potentially booster vaccine on lung covid. We cannot say anything about that either. We also see the first scientific articles on the effect of vaccination in patients who already have long-term covid. The purpose of these studies is to check whether people who were infected before their vaccination and reported long-term covid, still show symptoms of long-term covid after vaccination. In those studies, it is not intended to assess how likely it is that people who were infected would develop long-term covid after vaccination. Most studies saw an improvement after vaccination, but one study reported a deterioration based on self-reporting of respondents. It is therefore too early to draw any conclusions on this particular question. Finally, the French Haute Autorité de Santé recently published guidelines for dealing with long-term covid. It specifies that the presence of long-term symptoms of COVID-19 does not alter the indications or contraindications for vaccination against COVID-19. The scientific literature on the impact of vaccination on long-term symptoms after breakthrough infection is therefore not fully clear. However, we can conclude from the studies that lung covid will continue to occur even after vaccination. The recommendations of the KCE study No. 344 published in October 2021 remain very topical, even after a vaccination campaign, and RIZIV is currently developing a scheme for the treatment and care of this patient group. However, it is important to continue to follow all scientific insights. With regard to the maximum invoicing, I would just like to remind you of the law on various health provisions. We have provided an opening to include additional costs for food supplements in the maximum invoice. The RIZIV working group is still analysing these costs. Patient organisations also participate in this working group. I would remind you that I often said at the time that this draft was urgent. Perhaps some members of this committee should reconsider that. Is there a difference in effect between the different vaccines on the development of long-term covid? Sciensano carried out additional analyses with the data of the Sciensanoproject COVIMPACT. There is no significant difference between the different vaccines. No vaccine could be significantly associated with the risk of developing long-term covid. These results may evolve as the study progresses and as vaccination evolves in the cohort of the participants of the study. The results reported in other studies vary with sometimes reported differences between the different vaccines. Mrs Jiroflée, you had a question about booster vaccines. We don't know yet. It's too early to tell if there's a specific effect on lung covid. You also had a question about children. The COVIMPACT project of Sciensano specifically focuses on long-term covid and has been approved by an ethics committee to collect self-reported health data from persons aged 18 or over. As far as I know, there is no research project in Belgium on long-term covid in persons under 18 years of age. In general, long-term covid is not studied in children. A report by the Office for National Statistics of the United Kingdom in April last year showed that children aged 2 to 16 years were significantly less likely than adults themselves to report symptoms of long-term covid. In the same study, the percentage of 2- to 16-year-olds who reported symptoms three months after infection was estimated at 7.4 %. The impact of long-term covid on daily functioning is smaller in children than in adults. On the basis of a literature review, the KCE enters in the report No. 344 to the same conclusion. Ms Reuter, a working group within INAMI looks at the approach and funding of post-covid treatment with a focus on multidisciplinary management from the front line. This project is included in the 2022 multi-year cross-cutting care journey, which means that it is included in the budget. Funding is therefore possible. A think tank has already developed a step care model starting with the general practitioner and coordinated by a box manager. A cross-sectional consultation with the various partners is planned on 2 February to deepen the reimbursement proposal so that this model of care is put into practice. Next Wednesday, a cross-cutting consultation with different stakeholders is planned to further develop this model towards concrete reimbursement arrangements, thus increasing access to care tailored to the specific needs of this patient group. A communication for post covid will be prepared when the proposal of care plan is accepted within that cross-cutting consultation. The progress in the implementation will therefore be made available through the RIZIV website. Mrs Creemers, an exact estimate of the number of care workers with long-term covid is not available. We do have information about long-term covid and absenteeism in the general population. It is collected in the COVIMPACT project of Sciensano. The target group itself reports, the information is reported by the participants. It's about adults with a COVID-19 infection in Belgium. We don't know specifically whether it's about people who work in health care. The last report showed that three months after infection with COVID-19, the average number of days of disease was 20 days in people with long-term covid and 13 days in people with no symptoms after three months. We also know from the follow-up of COOVID-19 infections according to the professional sector that health workers were significantly more affected by the virus during certain periods of the pandemic. It could follow that they also have an increased risk of long-term covid, but that hypothesis should be further investigated. We do not have data on the overall prevalence of long-term covid in the Belgian population. With the COVIMPACT project of Sciensano, we can estimate the cumulative incidence of new cases over a certain period of time. Of the study participants infected with COVID-19 between 30 April and 20 June last year, 47 % of long-term covid had three months after the infection, i.e. between 2 August and 22 September. Because long-term covid is a chronic health problem, the prevalence may also be higher than this cumulative incidence. The conclusion is that it is important. It's about a relatively significant proportion of these people. You asked about the long-term consequences. The COVIMPACT project aims to build a cohort of people who tested positive for covid, to study precisely the long-term evolution of a COOVID-19 infection on physical, mental and social health and to identify the risk groups and factors associated with a favourable or unfavourable evolution. In addition, Sciensano also coordinates the HELICON project, which will assess the impact of covidhospitalizations or positive tests on the evolution of the social and health status up to three years after the event. In addition, the HELICON project will identify the health and economic impact of the indirect effects of the covid crisis, such as the impact of delayed care. There is currently no specific treatment for long-term covid, with which I answer the question that may concern most people. Symptoms can be multiple, in some cases affect many organs. Usually, patients with long-term covid are now treated on the basis of rehabilitation techniques specifically for the presented complaints and, of course, based on the current knowledge. Studies are ongoing at home and abroad to determine how rehabilitation programmes can be developed and focused, e.g. for cardiorespiratory complaints, fatigue or neurocognitive symptoms. In Belgium, too, budgets have been made available for such scientific research. The KCE Trials programme has launched a call for proposals and, as I said earlier, selected three randomized clinical studies to study which treatments may be effective in this case. Finally, the Belgian Evidence-Based Practice network is working on the development of a directive for the rehabilitation and mentoring of patients with long-term covid. We hope to be able to publish them in the coming baskets. Mr President, once again this was a long answer, but the questions were about the whole problem of long-term covid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. There was no other way. I am particularly pleased that there are projects in a number of areas, but that there is still research going on. That is very clear from your whole answer. That progress is being made to make certain needs of certain people living with long covid more accessible, and that they are being discussed in more detail in the coming weeks, I am also pleased. I'm kind of hungry about the kids. Significantly fewer children seem to suffer from lung covid. However, I think it is important that this small group is properly followed up and that children, when they are very young or teenagers, are not already saddled with some kind of chronic disease by the virus. Although it is not a significant share, it would be worth doing research on it as well. That was just a few comments. In particular, I had asked for a state of affairs. It's obvious:ça bouge. Perhaps we would all like to see it go a little faster. So I will certainly come back to the problem in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that the KCE study is bearing fruit, especially since it has now been more than a year since patients with long covid had made the request. I am also very pleased because this is in line with one of the major demands that was incorporated into the motion for a resolution that we voted on last May. The same resolution also provided for access to multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes while, for your part, Mr. Minister, you insist that the evaluation of long covid must be carried out within the specialist centres, but that, as far as follow-up is concerned, it is essentially the first line to take care of it. However, the first line will only be informed of this problem of long-term covid. The resolution also sought correct information from the first line, in particular from general practitioners, on this pathology. It should also be borne in mind that the first line is not equipped to provide proper psychological follow-up for patients with long covid. On the other hand, the most affected patients need home care, which is essential to them. Therefore, I remain firmly convinced that the best follow-up that can be provided to these patients can only take place in specialized multidisciplinary centres. This is already the case today in Iris Sud hospitals or in the CHIREC-Hôpital Delta in Brussels, since June 2020. It has now been over a year and a half since there has been expertise available that needs to be generalized through federal government funding. Brussels remains difficult to access for a wide range of patients living in the province. The challenge is therefore to ensure equal treatment between patients regardless of the type of long covid they suffer, their symptoms and their geographical location.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u36	Minister, thank you for your long answer. We were waiting for a detailed evolution of what has been done, the studies that have been carried out and the results of this working group. Being able to pass on the evolution of the situation to people who suffer from this long covid was essential. Today, we can indeed begin to provide them with answers. I look forward to the outcome of the consultation next week to be able to move forward in this area, which clearly handicaps all those patients whose numbers you have mentioned – even though it is still difficult to diagnose who is really affected. In any case, those who are in this situation find themselves in a very complicated situation today. It is therefore crucial to provide them with answers. Thank you again for your answers that already bring a lot of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am questioned by the figures from the Sciensano study: 47% of cumulative incidences of people with long covid. It is a huge number, I believe, compared to those who have been circulating so far, which shows the importance of prevention and the fact that this disease is far from being a common disease. As for the concrete advancements for these people, I understand that next week you will be presenting a stepped care model with a refund to the key. I hope that the latter will follow quickly. Not knowing the conditions of this stepped care, it's hard for me to talk about it in advance. I can only hope that it will not be too restrictive or too difficult to access given the large number of patients with long covid and who may not need all the proposals of the model. Will it be accessible everywhere for all? Will there be waiting lists to access them? I am disappointed that I did not hear from you in your answer about the reimbursement of the kine sessions. There is no advancement on this subject, while people could benefit from it without being obliged to enter this specialized program. I say it with all caution since I don't know your precise plan. I'll analyze it carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I think it was indeed necessary to consider this for so long. I know the Sciensano investigation. Unfortunately, I was a participant in it. I am pleased to hear that it will run until April 2023, because it will succeed people for at least two years. Sciensano now has the contact details of a lot of lung covid patients, and I think it is very good that they are well mapped out how they are doing, how we are doing. You spoke of the first group, from April to June. I'm in that group, too. I got covid at the beginning of June. I hadn't been vaccinated yet, since vaccination for people my age didn't happen at the time. I think it is very logical that we cannot say anything at the moment. I've got two short points. I myself have seen how very important primary care is, where people are being received and where signals are being taken seriously, at a stage where first-line care has been so overburdened for almost two years, that we can only applaud the overloaded first-line workers, who are all doing this and doing it very well. I think we're running out of time. We must now move on to a multidisciplinary approach, towards a plan. I believe this is necessary now. This weekend I've been in the paper with my testimony. I've had a lot of reactions, including from patients who have long-term effects from other viral infections. I have urged them that I should convey to you their concern, because they have a lot of the same symptoms as lung covid patients. They too are colliding with many boundaries within our healthcare system. Maybe it's a good idea to open up everything about long covid to them, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u39	Minister, as you said earlier, this is not the first time that we have talked about long covid in this committee. Last year there was the resolution, which I myself asked in October in relation to long covid, partly even the same questions as Mrs Jiroflée is now asking. Think of the demand for statistical data and for definition. You replied to me at the time that you did not yet have statistical data, but you promised to collect some data. I note that in the meantime you have ordered a number of studies and that a number of things are on the way, but there are still few concrete results. You will recall, Minister, that in the run-up to my question in October I had a number of discussions with the representatives of organizations of lung covid patients. One of the conclusions that was drawn in those conversations at the time was that those people are actually looking for a point of contact, a single point of contact. I think I can conclude from your answer that this question is still very topical. I would therefore ask you to take this question to heart, but with some urgency. After all, I believe that lung covid is one of the things that we need to respond to very quickly in view of the final battle against the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u40	Minister, I have asked my question a number of times, but I ask them again because I have never really received an answer to it, also because it was often part of a major topical debate. If I am not mistaken, there has always been little attention in the corona crisis to the number of infections among the care staff, in stark contrast to many other countries where there was a continuous reporting from the beginning of the epidemic. It is important to monitor the care staff properly so that they remain performant. In this way we can also see how acute a particular problem is and how many hands are on the beds and in the first line. I have a few questions about this. Is there a continuous and complete overview of the number of infections in healthcare providers? If so, where can we find it? Can you explain the figures? Is there a difference between the different regions and can you explain this? If no, why are these figures not recorded? Are there any analyses of the amount of antibodies or any cellular immunity still present in the care staff? If so, can you explain that? The strange thing is that Sciensano did record figures, but that it stopped doing so in April 2021 for the hospital sector and in September 2021 for the first line. In the meantime, the question of whether there is a loss of care staff due to covid contamination has become obsolete. We know that very clearly now, especially with the omikron wave. However, can you give us an idea of the size of the outage and can you also specify that by Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u41	Mrs Gijbels, there is a continuous monitoring of the number of infections in the general population. That's what you'll find in the Sciensano reports. This monitoring will be complemented by a sporadic link of data with other data sources, such as surveillance in the residential care centres, I refer to the separate report COVID-19 in the residential care centres, the CoBRHA database, which allows identification of healthcare providers based on their diploma, I refer to the thematic report Vaccination in healthcare providers, and the RSZ database, which allows to publish a separate report which is actually updated very frequently, in particular COVID-19 incidence in the active working population. All these reports are available on the website of Sciensano, so the data are still available to a large extent, especially as regards employees in the healthcare sector. This shows that the infections in the care staff follow the general trends in society, which is not surprising either. Your second question was about antibodies. The study on antibodies in hospital health workers coordinated by Sciensano ran until April 2021 and the study on primary health workers until December 2021. The results are available via the Sciensano dashboard on the Seroprevalence tab. Both studies show a clear impact of the vaccination and for primary health workers also of the booster on the prevalence of health workers with antibodies. The studies in both hospital and primary health workers show a similar prevalence to those found in the general population. The studies in the general population continue in 2022, but in view of the comparable findings and therefore the lack of added value, it has been decided not to continue the studies specifically among health professionals. Unfortunately, there is a lack of care staff due to covid contamination, which, of course, underlines the importance of the care staff being vaccinated and given boosters after primary vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u42	Mr Minister, you indicate that there are several databases whose data are crossed, which ultimately means that there are overviews, but I regret that there was not a separate and even rather detailed overview from the outset. This is important to monitor the extent of the failure, but it should also be taken into account in determining the severity of the pandemic phase in which we find ourselves. However, the most important thing we need to do now is to learn as many lessons as possible. Unfortunately, we are now experiencing an epidemic which we should have known was coming. In what form, of course, was the question. At least now let us learn the lessons and collect the data we can collect in order to better prepare ourselves for another epidemic. I am referring specifically to the following. Have we identified which sectors of care are more affected than others and can we learn from them? Which sectors have protected themselves better than others and have learned lessons from them? Have those lessons already been communicated to certain groups within the care where there were more infections? For example, what was the impact of the limited availability of protective materials? I'd be very sorry if we didn't capture all those things now. So I would like to call again, as far as it is not too late, for more detailed and prominent data to be collected and presented continuously and clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u43	Mr Minister, the questions were put a while ago; I would like to summarize them. My first question relates to the assessment of the severity of the epidemic. Is there an overview of the intake duration of corona patients and the differences between the vaccinees and the non-vaccines? As far as I could tell, there's no record of the withdrawal time, the number of nursing days. However, I believe that this would be very interesting, inter alia, in order to better monitor the burden on hospitals. It is clear that this can be calculated and analysed, but this is not very clear. Secondly, can you give some explanation regarding the transfers of patients between hospitals in different provinces? In the past, you have referred me to the website of the HTSC Committee, where, in your opinion, those figures would be available, but I could not find them there. Then where can we find those numbers? How is interhospital transport organised in the meantime? Were certain lessons taken? Is the medical component of Defense still involved? Has there ever been any thought about specialized hospital transport teams, for example, who could be ready to accompany those delicate transports?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u44	Ms Gijbels, information on the vaccination status of hospitalised patients is available in the RAG epidemiological update report. You can find that on the website. There's a difference in severity of disease. In the period from 1 November 2021 to 31 December 2021, 2,556 fully vaccinated hospitalised covid patients and 3,142 unvaccinated covid patients were reported in the Clinical Hospital Surveillance Report. Of the fully vaccinated subjects in that surveillance, 12.1 % camped with severe COVID-19, while 11.1 % of the non-vaccine subjects had severe COVID-19. These are patients admitted with and because of COVID-19. At the same time, according to the survey, patients were enrolled due to COVID-19, 1,639 fully vaccinated and 2,459 unvaccinated hospitalised covid patients. Of the fully vaccinated, 13.7% were in serious COVID-19 and 11.15 % of the non-vaccines. The transfers are recorded daily by the hospitals in the surge capacity data. The HTSC Committee shall follow up on such data. From 1 November 2021 until January 2022, the following numbers were recorded for transfer from another hospital: in Antwerp 127, in Brussels 114, in Hainaut 189, in Limburg 48, in Liège 59, in Luxembourg 18, in Namur 33, in East Flanders 160, in Flemish Brabant 80, in Walloon Brabant 6 and in West Flanders 54. In total, this is 888 recordings. As regards transparency, when starting a new surveillance system time is spent on data checks to detect errors in the data. It then looks at how best to integrate the data into reports in an automatic way. Once that has been done, the data will be made available to the public. In this context, I can refer again to the report of the Hospital Surveillance on the website of Sciensano.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I continue to call for attention to be paid to active transparency and, if there are data, to display them as clearly, clearly and graphically as possible. A while ago, there was a discussion about the number of vaccinated and unvaccinated hospitalised patients. That discussion is still ongoing. There has been improvement in this area lately and there is indeed more attention to it than in the past, but in order to avoid mistrust as much as possible, it is important to communicate as many figures as possible, including on hospital transports.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u46	Mr Minister, my question was tabled at the end of November and is therefore already somewhat dated. It is clear that even during this fourth wave the capacity of IC beds is an important bottleneck. Telemonitoring of covid patients has an important role to play to better capture the fourth wave and future waves. This allows infected patients with a thermometer and a satimeter to measure and register their own parameters in a multidisciplinary platform. They are followed closely by nurses and doctors. A pilot project in Aalst already demonstrated during the third wave that a substantial profit can be made by tracking covid patients remotely. Patients need to go to intensive care less quickly and hospitalized patients can leave the hospital on average 2.5 days earlier. In addition, hospitalisations are also avoided, because the patient is only admitted when really needed. Minister, will you respond to the call from the initiators of the pilot project? Will there be more use of telemonitoring? Is that what happened in the fourth wave? If so, has this happened all over the country? Should there be a streamlining of the various initiatives? How many people are currently being monitored through the telemonitoring system and where is this happening? The oxygen saturation in the blood is an easy to measure parameter. This also has an important predictive value for a bad or not course of covid. It is true that some patients themselves do not notice if their oxygen levels are threateningly low and go to the hospital too late. Is there sufficient use on the self-monitoring of the oxygen saturation at home? Shouldn't every covid patient who's sick at home have an oxygen saturation meter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u47	Mr Minister, in early 2021 a project was launched to monitor covid patients at home via telemonitoring. This project will be renewed in 2022. Nineteen hospitals or groups of healthcare providers participate and have already concluded a RIZIV agreement. Minister, what profit has been made in terms of hospital occupation and care capacity through teleconsultation? What financial gain could have been booked? How do you view the use of teleconsultation in covid patients? Is it your intention to extend this to other pathologies? Which one? What are the advantages of that? Can you give an overview of the number of patients included in the projects that were started? Do you foresee an extension within the project to other care providers such as physiotherapists? Do you think that physiotherapists can also play a role in this project, specifically in the follow-up of covid patients via telemonitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u48	Telemonitoring of stay-at-home covid patients and patients after their discharge from the hospital is very important. The number of inclusions in the various projects was 937 patients at the end of November. I can provide you with the detailed table and an overview of the number of entries per month. By way of indication, I can indicate that 307 patients included in the UZA and 304 inclusions spread over 13 hospitals for CovidCare@Home. The Oost-Limburg Hospital had 107 inclusions and Mederi in Aalst had 79. We saw the highest number of patients in April with 230, and in May with 244 patients. The pilot project normally ended at the end of December 2021, but the RIZIV Insurance Committee decided to extend it by six months. The Federal Health Knowledge Centre is working on an evaluation. This report will also include data on health economic profit, as well as an analysis of the role of all healthcare providers involved in the implementation of telemonitoring of covidpatitors. No extension is currently foreseen to other care providers within the current project. The role of the kinesis in the telemonitoring of covid patients in the acute stage of disease progression is thus not yet clear. The KCE evaluation report, together with the KCE report Evaluation of remote heart monitoring, will be report No. 445A, guide the way and for which pathology telemonitoring can be further implemented in our health system. The development will certainly take into account the place in the care process, the benefits and disadvantages for the patient and the health care provider and the health economic gain. In addition to the pilot project of the RIZIV, similar projects were launched by healthcare professionals. Projects participating in the RIZIV pilot project must meet different requirements for inclusion criteria, used equipment, continuity of care, telemonitoring teams and different roles of healthcare providers, while maintaining sufficient freedom of implementation for the different initiatives. The renewal of the agreements will continue the existing initiatives in the same way in the first six months of 2022. Finally, in reply to Mrs Sneppe's fourth question, it is important to know that the treating physician finally decides whether or not to follow up on oxygen saturation is necessary, depending on the patient's condition and risk profile. If it is decided to initiate telemetry, at least peripheral oxygen saturation, a home nurse may install the device at the patient's home and monitor the condition in the following days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that the pilot project of telemonitoring is extended by six months. I hope that it will be further implemented when the study of the KCE or the report turns out to be positive. If we want to relieve the bottleneck of the hospitals and the Intensive Cares, telemonitoring is a good thing. She would at least give the patients some grip. They wouldn't go to the hospital so soon. After all, someone who is already short of breath can panic and go to the hospital too early. On the other hand, someone who doesn't realize his oxygen saturation is low can quietly extinguish before going to the hospital. So it is important in both directions for people to be able to control things for themselves. Throughout the pandemic, we see that everything is regulated by the government. People are no longer given responsibility, they just have to follow rules. It is therefore important that responsibility should return to the patient and that he or she should again be able to assess the seriousness of his or her situation with common sense. Telemonitoring can certainly help with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u50	Minister, I am also very interested in the evaluation by the KCE, which will also show the health and economic benefits. However, telemonitoring will be part of the concerns of the future. I think there are a number of things where there is profit to be made. People could be released from the hospital more quickly, which in turn has advantages in terms of hands on the bed and the availability of care staff. You yourself referred to the cardiac problem and said that telemonitoring will also be applied to it. It could also, if necessary, ensure better follow-up of people with cardiac problems, faster detection of problems and previous interventions. This will enable both economic and budgetary savings to be achieved, while improving the quality of our care. So I look forward very much to further developments, which I will be very happy to follow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u51	Minister, on 18 November 2021, Reuters announced that the FDA would take 55 years to deal with a so-called Freedom of Information Act request on vaccination dates. A group of more than 30 professors and scientists from Yale and Harvard, among others, did not just apply to the FDA for the data the institution used to administer the Pfizer-COVID-19 vaccine. Scientists stress that the release of the data can contribute to transparency that can increase confidence in the vaccine and convince vaccine skeptics of its safety and effectiveness. Apparently, the FDA's response was that the request could not be answered for another 55 years. The FDA gives the reason that it first needs to review 329,000 pages to protect confidential business data, trade information and personal patient information. However, the claimants set a deadline of 3 March 2022. That's the same 180-day period that the FDA needed to review the documents to approve Comirnaty and thus assess whether the vaccine was safe and efficient. Given that whistleblowers told in the BMJ a while ago that part of the clinical tests that were conducted did not meet the requirements, releasing the data seems very important. Do you believe that the release of the documents can contribute to the transparency of the Pfizer vaccine, thereby increasing confidence in the vaccine? Do you consider that a vaccine can become mandatory when important data are not accessible to the public, even to independent professors and scientists who can assess the documents with knowledge? Have there been any requests from the EEA to release the dossier dealt with by the EEA? What are the procedures at the EEA? When will the EEA release the data? Do you yourself have the right to look at the dossier submitted to the EEA on which Belgium bases itself to inoculate the population? For example, we read in the assessment report of the EEA about Comirnaty that there have been several major objects. Will the information be made available to be evaluated by independent experts? Even though it may not be a common practice in this crisis, it is certainly not an unnecessary luxury.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, we support the idea that maximum transparency is given to documents that form the basis for the marketing authorisation of a medicinal product, either a vaccine or another medicine. However, existing national and European legislation on public administration must be taken into account. For example, no data can be made public that endangers the privacy of individuals. In addition, confidential manufacturing data cannot be disclosed. It is important to report that applications for market authorisations within the EEA are assessed by a Scientific Committee, the CHMP, in which all Member States are represented. The scientific data supporting the market application shall be evaluated in detail by independent scientific experts from different Member States. Only if the various experts agree that the risk-benefit balance of the medicinal product is positive will a market authorisation be offered. In addition, the EEA also has a highly developed pharmacovigilance system that detects unexpected side effects after commercialisation. If other scientists want access to the data, they can request access according to the EEA procedures. The EEA procedures on access to documents are based on European legislation and published on the EEA website. The EEA actively provides information on authorised medicinal products, including covid vaccines, through the European public assessment report, the EPAR, published on the EEA website. In addition, it is possible to request documents. As already mentioned, applications for market authorisations within the EEA are assessed by the Scientific Committee CHMP. The delegates of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products in the CHMP shall follow the evaluation process and have access to the relevant documents. The Minister shall be systematically informed through the FAGG. The fact that major objects are formulated during the evaluation procedure for a medicinal product does not mean that there is a problem with the quality, safety or effectiveness of the medicinal product that comes on the market. For example, a major objection can be formulated during the procedure because additional data are needed to allow a correct assessment of the medicinal product or because certain adjustments to the product information or test method are required. This major objection can be solved if the company provides relevant additional data or makes the requested adjustments. Positive advice for the marketing authorisation will only be given if the risk-benefit balance for the medicinal product is assessed positively. Finally, I would like to mention that the covid vaccines were evaluated in a short timeline, but in accordance with generally applicable standards and standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. On the first pages that were released, there were 1,223 deaths during the first 11 vaccination weeks. There are also reports of myocardiitis and pericarditis following vaccination, impaired menstrual cycles and thrombosis, but these reports are considered to be very rare, transient and not severe. For this reason, I believe that transparency, credibility and reliability of data can ensure that vaccination skeptics get their act together, because perhaps you are right that the vaccination damage is very rare, transitory and not serious. You always wave the secrecy, EEA legislation and privacy legislation and the like, in which I can partially follow you. However, if you want to impose a vaccine, I believe that it is reasonable for those dates to be released before an obligation is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u54	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back a long time ago. All eyes are once again on care. This sector has been under pressure for more than two years. Much attention is rightly paid to the number of hospitalisations and the intensive care occupation. As in earlier waves, this has also proved to be the bottleneck in the fourth wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u55	What are the criteria to hospitalize a covid patient and/or move in the hospital to the intensive care? Who or what decides how long someone stays on intensive care? Are there objective criteria for this? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Sneppe, an important basic principle in our concern is that everyone who needs care should also receive this care. That must also be maintained in times of crisis. If a doctor or a physician-specialist wishes to refer to intensive care, there will always be a conversation between the treating physician and the physician-specialist intensive medicine. During this interview, physicians will determine the need to take on intensive care based on the condition, the severity of the condition, the general condition of the patient, the patient's choice, which may have been included within a care schedule, and the patient's prognosis. The physician-specialist in intensive medicine will put not one criterion in the scales, but all the elements that were taught him or her during pre-school medicine and specialization into medical specialist intensive medicine. In times of scarcity, there is a risk of triage and choice. To this end, in March 2020, the Belgian Association for Intensive Medicine gave its opinion on the directive on the equivalence of intensive care during the 2020 covid pandemic in Belgium. The Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics also issued an opinion in December 2020 on the ethical aspects relating to the prioritisation of care in times of COVID-19. This recommendation was endorsed by the Order of Doctors and the Supreme Health Council. The measures taken by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, namely the postponement of non-urgent scheduled care in favour of non-planable urgent care, aim precisely to avoid a lack of intensive care beds. The choice for recording on ICU is therefore first and foremost a choice of therapy and should remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that in the first place it should be a choice of therapy. But, of course, people are often scared sometimes justified, sometimes unjustly so, and I have the impression that they sometimes go faster to the hospital. Especially when tested positively, they keep the parameters closer in sight, and think at the least inconvenience that they are dying and have to go to the hospital. Of course, this also has to do with the fear that people are partly talked about. The question of telemonitoring, which I have already mentioned, is closely in line with that. Those who can be accompanied and treated from home do not need to go to hospital immediately. What I've always wondered about here is this. In your corona policy, you have reduced the first line to a minimum, to a pass-through door. Corona patients should not be treated early, the protocols that exist for them are not approved and should not be rolled out. That's as far as they can go to the doctor. They have to wait at home until they're either getting better or so bad they have to go to the hospital. So in order to relieve care, I have always found it strange that nothing has ever been done about it, both with those protocols and with that telemonitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u58	Minister, according to figures published by Sciensano, an average of more than 90,000 tests have been performed every day in the last seven days. At the beginning of January, the 100,000 tests per day were even crossed. These figures flirt dangerously with the maximum capacity of testing centers. And the intensity of the omicron wave, of which we have not yet reached the peak, may further increase this pressure. Minister, my questions are as follows: What is the state of play in the testing centres today? What about possible equipment shortages? What about the time frame for obtaining test results to date? Is there still a risk of saturation? If so, and despite the initiatives already taken, are you considering further measures to address the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u59	In general, 96% to 98% of test results arrive within 36 hours. It can be said that the labs are still following. There is currently no shortage of equipment, which is confirmed by suppliers. The rate of delay of two to three weeks after the order is maintained, as was the case in December. When the staff is ill, it is not always obvious. But for now, the service is not impacted. If necessary, these personnel may work contaminated if they are not ill, but only if necessary. The pace is sustained in testing centers and pharmacies. The situation seems to me to be generally correct, but the current figures show that a change in the indications for the test, as introduced, was necessary. You asked if there is still a risk of saturation. There is no zero risk. However, there is still some margin at the level of pharmacists, as well as at the level of laboratories and sampling centres. I can therefore say that, so far, everything is in line with the forecasts. But I repeat that zero risk does not exist. You also asked – I quote –: "If this is the case, despite the initiatives already taken, are you considering further measures to remedy the problem?" You should be aware that testing priorities as foreseen by the RMG still offer opportunities to limit testing to fewer categories, but this issue is not yet on the agenda. You may recall that there was a cascade of priorities. It is therefore possible to go further and decide to stop a series of tests or components of the strategy if necessary. But the problem does not arise at present. Of course, an assessment of the administrative burden for treating physicians is still under way, knowing that it is intended to limit this burden to the maximum in order to optimize the time that treating physicians can devote to their patients. Here I refer you to the self-positive test form that has been online since the end of last week and allows you to have this test followed by a PCR test. Many codes for a test are thus obtained after a self-assessment via the site, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u60	Mr Minister, I thank you for your reassuring answers, despite the scale of the epidemic of this variant, which, even though it is not "dangerous", is nevertheless very virulent. As long as it lasts and you don't have to activate priorities in terms of accessibility to PCR tests!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u61	Minister, my many questions, some of which I submitted a while ago, show how much I care about after the subject. During an interview on the VTM news on 3 December, you stated that no decision had yet been taken to order 736,000 child vaccines, for which you had signed a contract. So, on what basis did you sign that contract? Could you cancel that contract if your colleagues did not agree to the vaccination of young children? What is the cost-benefit analysis related to the effect of the vaccines on children? Should we not opt for the principle of caution here, especially in the case of young children, since we do not yet know about the side effects in the long term? Will kids get a CST too? In the media, you deny that now, but you have often denied things that happened later. Are non-vaccinated children excluded from extracurricular or even in-school activities? What is the value of the contract you signed in euros? Will vaccination of minors require the consent of parents or guardians? We hear that certain CLBs consider consent given, although the parents did not give consent; they apparently rely on tacit consent. Do you want to make vaccination from 5- to 11-year-olds mandatory? Will it be included in the obligation we are discussing later? Why, as the GEMS' advice has so far been constantly leaking into the press, which has led to frustration among the population as well as with experts and politicians, are not immediately released the reports and advice so that everyone has access to it? With regard to the opinion of the High Health Council on child vaccination, the press immediately stated that it was a positive opinion, although the High Health Council nevertheless lays down some important conditions. The Council stresses that children in that age group rarely really get sick and that vaccination should therefore be a priority for children with underlying conditions. In addition to vaccination, the High Health Council stresses the importance of the basic rules, i.e. hand hygiene, mouth masks and ventilation. The opinion consists of four recommendations, in particular, firstly, a thorough primary vaccination of the adult population, secondly, a rapid implementation of the booster shot for the most vulnerable, thirdly, the vaccination of children aged 5 to 12 years with underlying conditions or who come into contact with high risk patients and, fourthly, the possibility of offering vaccination to that age group without comorbidities on individual and voluntary decision of the child and his or her parents. Minister, do you agree to the four recommendations of the High Health Council? If not, why don't you agree? Will you take into account the proposed order of recommendations? If not, why won't you? In the meantime, we have already received the advice of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics. I have another question about the vaccination of the five to eleven-year-olds. The chances of the virus making healthy children seriously ill are small. That's what you said yourself in an interview in Humo. However, by vaccinating them, they protect their environment, parents, grandparents, teachers and classmates. If we want schools to remain open safely, we need as many children as possible to be vaccinated, but that remains a free choice. Those are your words in the interview in question. In the same interview, you say that children with underlying conditions are 12 times more likely to end up in hospital and 19 times more likely to end up in Intensive Care. On the basis of which scientific studies or of what research do you make that statement? Which institute or researcher has confirmed that? How many children aged between 5 and 11 years old have been hospitalized in Belgium since the start of the epidemic? What was the median withdrawal time in days? How many children have died of covid in Belgium so far and what was their age? How many cases of pulmonary covid were there in the 5 to 11 age group and from 12 to 18? How many minors have ended up in the Intensive Care Department? You say it's a free choice to have children vaccinated. Information from the Health and Health Agency shows that an opt-out system would be used. Parents must therefore explicitly state that they do not want vaccination, if not their consent is taken as a basis. Is that how it's agreed on in the Conciliation Committee? Do you agree that opt-out does not correspond to offering, as recommended by the High Health Council and the Bioethics Committee? Can you confirm that through the CST children will never be denied access to the school or sports activities or cultural activities, as recommended by the High Health Council and the Bioethics Committee? The child vaccine may have side effects, such as myocardiitis, inflammation of the heart muscle. The long-term effects are still little known. Then how can you be sure that the vaccine is safe? This is stressed over and over again. In the United States, 7 million children aged 5 to 11 years have been vaccinated. In boys aged 12 to 17 years, myocardiitis would occur in up to 1 in 5,000 cases, according to the Health and Health Agency. How many Belgian children between 12 and 17 years old do you offer a child vaccine? In the meantime, the government has started vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age. All means are used to convince the children and their parents of the need for them: vaccinations in animal and amusement parks, influencers on Ketnet and real commercials on the radio. Neither cost nor effort are spared. However, the law prohibits advertising of medicinal products, including those aimed primarily or exclusively at children in accordance with the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995 on information and advertising of medicinal products for human use. Minister, how do you reconcile these advertising practices with the ban in the Royal Decree? What are the costs of sound marketing and what expenses do they cover? Are influencers in Belgium paid for their services, as rapper Boef recently made public in the Netherlands? How much do they get for that and how many influencers are paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u62	Madam President, Minister, at a time when many parents of children between the ages of 5 and 11 are receiving an invitation at home to vaccinate their children on a voluntary basis and with respect for the informed free choice of each, some parents, even those most convinced by vaccination, question the risks and side effects associated with the injection. As with all vaccines given to children, whether mandatory or not, many parents turn to the paediatricians who often accompany them since the birth of their child, in order to obtain their views, which they believe is essential for making the necessary decisions in the most informed way possible. While it is now possible for every citizen to prefer vaccination through his or her treating physician rather than through a vaccination centre, it seems that the opportunity to ask his or her pediatrician to have his or her child vaccinated has not been considered, while most of the time they remain privileged professionals and trusted for families regarding children's health. Minister, do the terms of vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 (non-risk) include the possibility of using paediatricians? Otherwise, would this be possible in the future, if it were to reassure parents and get them to have their children vaccinated? And, failing that, could we consider adding pediatricians to the teams at the immunization centres already in place? What about children at risk? Is vaccination by paediatricians privileged in this context? I come to my second question concerning separated parents. Vaccination of children is a decision and proactive approach of the parents and is only possible with the consent of the parents or legal guardian, in accordance with the principle of joint parental authority. While many experts encourage all parents to seek the opinion of the child under the age of 12, it is clear that only the parents have the power to allow or not to allow the vaccination of the child and that there is a presumption in this respect for third parties that the parent who presents himself or herself benefits from the agreement of the other parent. In most cases, this is not a problem, but for children of separated couples, things can be more complex. Some parents, out of concern or conviction, sometimes arbitrarily oppose the vaccination of their child, often leaving the other parent unable to cope with this situation. While the legislation provides that, in the event of disagreement, the dispute shall be decided by the family court by applying the principle of the primary interest of the child, few parents take the step because of the cumbersome nature of the proceedings, but also because some fear that the judge may not be able to make a decision in accordance with his or her personal convictions. Minister, have any advice been sought from health and ethics advisory bodies in this context? How can the judicial process be facilitated in order to avoid a considerable loss of time in the context of vaccination of children? Finally, what will be the possible consequences of case law against vaccination of children under 12 years of age? Is there a common reflection on this with the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u63	Minister, some of the questions have become obsolete, so I shall confine myself to the most up-to-date. The EEA has authorised vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age. That campaign is now in full swing. However, I do find little background information on clinical studies in this context. How many children participated in the clinical study on which the EEA relies? What criteria were used for this and did Belgian children also participate in studies? If so, I would have liked to know the numbers as well as the geographical distribution, ages and genders. In a public debate, a form of doubt was expressed at some point by one of the experts. Has it been examined on the basis of what information that doubt has been expressed? Did you anticipate that? Is this related to the clinical studies or is there another reason? What I also find special is Sciensano's research into the natural immunity that children now possess. Turns out it's very high. Is this natural immunity taken into account in the campaign and in the accompanying information to parents? To what extent are booster shots planned for children? Is the need for boosters linked to the natural immunity acquired in the meantime? I would like to draw attention to the concerns of some parents regarding the mention of vaccination of their children at the CST. At European level, agreements have already been made on whether or not a CST is necessary for a child, for example in order to travel. The crocus vacation is coming up, and some families would like to go skiing. What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u64	Madam President, I would first like to make a very general observation. Vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age and of young people under 17 years of age is a very essential part of our defence against the virus. I believe that this must be emphasised more than ever today. The world of education is now asking us to temporarily suspend the quarantine measures that we have decided to take together with education. I do believe that we should answer this question positively. Emergency breaks the law. I believe that we cannot maintain the current quarantine rules in education. I think it is very clear that we must say that a child who is infected must stay at home. It's not just about a child with symptoms, any child who's tested positive should stay home. That should be clear. I believe that this decision will be taken tomorrow at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. All children who are infected stay at home, but we do not allow quarantine measures to apply to children who want to go to school. If, at the same time, we want to protect and keep teachers working, while at the same time ensuring maximum control of the spread of the virus, vaccination of children and young people is essential. I note a certain reluctance, including in educational environments, to recommend vaccination. I think it is important to tell parents that vaccination is an essential defence of school life. She contributes to keeping the schools open. I will also make that point tomorrow in the consultations that we will hold with the health ministers. Questions are being asked about side effects, about safety. I really believe that we can say that the mRNA vaccines we use are not only specially adapted for children, but are also safe. This is confirmed on the basis of data from the United States and Israel, where several million children have already received a first and a second dose. Of course, mild side effects are identified. For example, the company Pfizer identifies mild side effects such as fatigue, headache, chills. There is also increased vigilance for myocardiitis, inflammation of the heart muscle. There were no cases in Pfizer's clinical trials, but on 31 December the US Health Authority published the frequency of complications following vaccination from 5- to 11-year-olds. After 8.7 million vaccines, 100 serious cases of adverse events were identified. 29 times it was high fever, 21 times it was vomiting, 15 times it was myocardiitis, 11 of which were confirmed. The majority of myocardial events were mild and recovering or improving. In fact, this is an absolutely minimal number of side effects, which one has to balance with a very great advantage of extra protection. The data I have given, which is 100, is a finding after the administration of 8.7 million vaccines to children in the United States. We can really say that a vaccination campaign in children is good to keep schools open, is good to protect children themselves, is good to protect those who come into contact with children as teachers, parents and grandparents, is just good for the world in which children live today and is therefore good for the well-being of children. Of course young children rarely get seriously ill after an infection. In a small part of the children, however, COVID-19 can lead to a serious course, with possible hospitalization and even inclusion on intensive care. Since the onset of the epidemic in Belgium, 135 children between 5 and 11 years old have been hospitalized by covid, but no child in that age group died in our country by covid. A rare, yet serious entanglement after an infection is MIS-C. This is an inflammatory disease in which children have persistent fever, possibly resulting in organ failure. Every 10,000 children who get infected have 2 to 5 of them to deal with. This is demonstrated by data in the United States and Germany. In most cases, this too can be treated well. Two recent studies in adolescents in the United States and France show that vaccination lowers the risk of MIS-C by more than 90%. We just talked about it, sometimes you have long-term complaints in children, a form of long covid. It is unclear how long these complaints will last. A serious course is not always predictable. ECD data show that 78% of hospitalised children with COVID-19 had no underlying condition. So you couldn't predict it. Omikron has a different course, with proportionally more recordings of young people and children than the delta variant. At least this is apparent from the data from South Africa, the United States and the United Kingdom, but is not confirmed by data from Denmark, where we have seen the same turnover in children as with the delta variant so far. It is estimated that a substantial proportion of children in our country have already acquired COOVID-19 with the delta or beta variant, but that alone is not a guarantee of protection against omikron. It is true, however, that vaccination will increase the immunity already built up. Those who have not yet experienced COVID-19 will have little chance of becoming very ill after vaccination. Waiting for children to vaccinate until appropriate vaccines against Omikron have been developed would mean that we would have to wait until the third or fourth quarter of 2022 to start vaccination and meanwhile we would give the omikron variant in this age group free play. Omikron will then circulate even more in the schools, leading to further closures. We must therefore campaign for vaccination in children. As Minister of Health, I would really recommend the vaccination of children. I would like the Ministers of Education to be allies in the campaign as well. Of course, parents have to make informed decisions. I'll get back to you on that. The CST is not an option under 12 years. I do not think that I should go into detail on the arrangements relating to the CST. However, when other countries say that young children must submit a corona pass when they wish to enter the country, we are, of course, somewhat powerless to do so. That is why we do make certificates available, but we do not want to use the CST ourselves, subject to certain specific circumstances, for children. There are circumstances in which the Länder do ask for the CST for children from 12 years of age and there are circumstances in which it is requested from 16 years of age, but under 12 years it does not apply. Mrs Depoorter, you had a number of specific questions. You asked how many children participated in the clinical trials. In the study of phase 2 and phase 3 of Walter et al. A total of 2,268 children aged 5 to 11 years were assigned to the BNT162b2 vaccine, i.e. 1,517 children who had a lower mRNA dose of one third of the original dose, or to a placebo vaccine that was then administered to 751 children. In the 5- to 11-year-olds, the BNT162b2 vaccine had a favourable safety profile, with only mild side effects such as fatigue, headache and chills and no cases of myocardiitis. As already mentioned, the safety of this lower dose for children was further investigated and confirmed on the basis of real world data from the United States and Israel, with millions of children receiving a first and second dose. I gave you this data earlier. You asked what conditions and criteria were used. For Walter et al's Phase 3 clinical study. Children aged between 5 and 11 who either had no or stable pre-existing conditions, with the exception of immunocompromising or immunodeficiency disorder, had a history of multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) or children receiving immunosuppressants, including cytotoxic agents and systemic glucocorticoids. In the real world data of the US, there were no exclusion criteria and all vaccinated children aged 5 to 11 years were included. You asked whether there are B-studies in progress and whether Belgian children participated, and if so, in what numbers and on what distribution. In Belgium, there is one clinical trial involving a paediatric population for an unauthorized vaccine. It is the pilot study 322A-2020-0042-17 (Clover vaccine). The Protocol has been amended to add adolescents between 12 and 18 years of age to the second substantial amendment. The sites concerned in Belgium are PneumoCare sprl - Private Practice Namur, the Anima Research Center in Limburg and the CUB-Erasmus Hospital in Brussels. The three Länder are therefore involved, Mrs Depoorter. The cohort of adolescents includes 600 participants, recruited in Belgium, Colombia and the Philippines. Both male and female adolescents are to be recruited. This is the case with the data on this specific study. You also mentioned public doubts about experts, but since you no longer mentioned them, I do not know what to say. Mrs Zanchetta, with regard to the role of the paediatrician and the involvement of parents, in the context of the vaccination of children decided last December, priority is reserved for children at greater risk (comorbidities), in consultation with a paediatrician. For these children, the invitations were issued at the end of December. They were invited according to the procedure applicable to the vaccination of adolescents with co-morbidities. This means that general practitioners and paediatricians can identify the children involved in their practice and invite them to be vaccinated. Children without co-morbidity also have the opportunity to be vaccinated on a voluntary basis and with the consent of the parents. With regard to the administration of vaccines to children, the majority of this target group is invited to a vaccination centre. Exceptions are children who are bedridden and/or have a strict medical indication, e.g. a serious physical disability, and who cannot leave their place of residence under normal circumstances. They can be vaccinated at home by the mobile team at the vaccination centre or by their attending doctor. In addition, vaccines are made available to paediatric services in hospitals and reference centres for children with rare diseases. As you pointed out, consultation with paediatricians can be helpful in removing certain fears and answering questions that both parents and children can ask themselves. In this context, as was the case with the adult vaccination campaign, the relationship of trust between a patient and a health professional, whether a general practitioner or a pediatrician, is paramount. However, this has no influence on the injection of the vaccine. Trust must facilitate access to reliable and illuminating information and does not necessarily involve the administration of the vaccine as such. This distinction between access to information and vaccination is based on the same reasoning that prevailed when the issue of adult immunization by their general practitioner was raised. The fastest possible administration is favoured by the centralisation of their provision within specific centres. This approach allowed the vaccination of more than 8.8 million Belgians very wide and rapid. In addition to speed of execution, this is also the best way to avoid wastage of the available doses when their conservation criteria are very strict. In conclusion, we favour the use of paediatricians to facilitate patients' access to clear and reliable information. Vaccination centres remain essential to ensure rapid administration to as many people as possible. If we do not rule out the assumption that in the long term paediatricians could administer the doses of vaccine themselves, it is not the option that has been chosen at this stage for strictly operational reasons. Concerning the parents, upon arrival at the centre, verbal consent is requested from the accompanying parent. Regardless of the relationship of the parents (married, divorced or separated), it is strongly recommended that they seek prior agreement between themselves on the decision to be taken on the vaccination of their child, including through a discussion with the child himself. There is a presumption for third parties (schools, sports clubs, etc.) for which the parent who presents himself or herself has the agreement of the other parent. In the event of disagreement, it is for the family court to decide by applying the main concept of the interests of the child. This means that the court puts itself in the place of the child rather than in the place of either parent. Vaccination centres are not intended to resolve possible intra-family conflicts and should remain places where everyone travels freely with the sole aim of protecting himself/herself from the virus and its variants. Opinions of the Superior Council of Health and the Advisory Committee of Bioethics of Belgium were given to the Interministerial Conference on Health and the opportunity to open vaccination to children under 12 years of age. In no way do they decide on how to deal with possible disagreements between parents. This is a matter of justice, not public health. In my view, Mrs. Zanchetta, the vaccination of a child is a matter of a general nature and concerns her well-being. For this reason, it is essential that parents overcome their potential conflicts for this purpose alone. Mrs Sneppe, one of the strange arguments you have developed is that we would organise campaigns that are contrary to the advertising bans. Information campaigns relating to vaccinations are not advertising and are not subject to the prohibitions of the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995. By the way, the federal government does not engage in marketing nor does it engage influencers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u65	Mr. Secretary, it was quite a sandwich. It's a little ungrateful to have to ask all the questions in one bite, but okay. You always stress that the vaccine is safe, but what do we actually know about the long term? We don't know anything about that, do we? Or do you know more and can you look into the future? That alone is something I want to look at with attention and ask questions. If we weigh the costs against the benefits, do we have to vaccinate children? Kids don't get sick or barely get sick. I have already read studies showing that they are not the source of infection of adults either. I leave in the middle whether those are valuable studies or not, but the fact that scientists conduct these kinds of studies in scientific media sometimes makes me frown. We must keep the debate open and ensure that we have all the facts. As far as the opt-out system is concerned, this is in stark contrast to what the High Health Council and the Bioethics Committee recommend. They're talking about offering. However, I have testimonies from my region which show that certain CLBs take this very literally and that there is opt-out. I have children of my own, and I know the CLB for other vaccines is asking the parents' permission. They ask if the vaccinations at the CLB are planned and if the child can be vaccinated. It strikes me that this would not happen with this vaccine. Throw that on the table in the interministerial consultation. CLB's interests affect the regions. Map that to so that not saying anything does not equal giving consent. For the CST, take a swing at the arm. You say that children will not need a CST at any time. Nearly a year ago, you didn't want to introduce CST, not to discriminate. In the meantime, the CST is there. Meanwhile, you're even thinking about not applying the 3G, but going to 1G. So I doubt your sincerity at the CST for children. If other countries consider it necessary to go on a journey and so on, you do not think that much can be done about it. That's true, of course. However, you are already opening the door. In your opinion, child vaccination is an essential part of the protection against the virus. I've already mentioned a study here that makes some observations about that. We will never reach an agreement on child vaccinations. I was one of the first to raise the alarm and advocated the principle of caution, including in the case of vaccination extension to sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds, then to twelve-year-olds and now five- to eleven-year-olds. I hope you're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers, but I am still wondering. This is more of a reflection on the vaccination of children whose parents are separated. You do say that we must think about the well-being of children and that parents must sometimes be able to overcome their disagreement. If I ask you the question, sometimes in some families, it is simply impossible to go beyond conflicts and disagreements to try to find a solution. That's why I was just asking you this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u67	Mr Minister, vaccination and natural immunity seem to me to be key factors in keeping schools open. We absolutely agree that we need to keep the schools open. Our children need it mentally, but we also need to be vigilant for a certain lack of learning. Therefore, it would be good to change those quarantine rules effectively. I have just read a publication by the pharmacists' association which calls for the reimbursement of a rapid antigen test or PCR test after a positive self-test. That would certainly be a good way of ensuring that people know very clearly when someone, whether symptomatic or not, is infected and when the child should stay home. You indicated that natural immunity is not enough against omikron. We do not fully agree on this, because even vaccines can offer some protection against omikron in the short term, but they are not sufficient. We really need to focus on the definition of natural immunity, so that parents can decide whether or not to join a vaccination. You shake your head.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u68	I think you're wrong about that. That's why I'm shaking my head. The immunity given by delta does not help against omikron. That's a first thing. Of course one can say that the immunity granted by omikron can help against omikron. Yes, but in the meantime, the children are carriers of the virus and, unfortunately, unintentionally play a role in the transmission of the virus. They might get sick themselves. In other words, here and now there is only one good answer, namely vaccination, even if it may have less impact within a few months. We have seen this: after a few months these vaccines lose a piece of their strength against omikron. It's vaccines that are made on another variant. We know that. But here and now, please, as a pharmacist, do not give the micro the impression that we can count on immunity to stop the circulation of the virus. That's saying, "Let the children get omikron first, then we're going to stop the circulation of the virus." I wouldn't tell you that. I'd say, "Let's vaccinate children." That is a voluntary choice and just a good thing for the children, for their schools, for their teachers, for their parents. On the exit of the story immunity will indeed play a role, but that is not a lever here and now. I think it's really weird that you're advocating this here. I would hate for parents to take what you say seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u69	Mr Minister, the vaccines are based on the delta variant. We have absolutely no evidence that natural immunity against delta or a vaccine against delta will give different immunity against omikron. That too is science. I'm a scientist, I follow science. I will not change my mind in this matter, because you are advocating this as a minister. It is a fact that we must protect our children as best we can, but parents must be able to judge them themselves. We also need to be able to use the serological data on the child. That's honesty. As far as CST is concerned, you're not making any sense. You're out of control, I agree. However, it is a concern of the parents: will we still be able to travel without a vaccine? Mr. Secretary, you are here arguing that you have science on your hands. I'd like to talk about the long term. Let me make it clear that it would not be a reason for me not to proceed with vaccination, but it is a concern I bear. The polyethylene glycol lipids present in the vaccines are a concern to me. They can occur weakly immunogenic. We know that there is a possibility of immunity being determined, altered or played by those PEG chains. If a child develops MS or a certain type of cancer later, this may determine the way the medicine works. I give this concern here and I ask for it to be followed up, because there is no point in proclamation of half-science. You did not answer my question about the booster. I will re-apply that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic668x.u70	Mrs Depoorter, the reason for this is very simple. We are awaiting an EEA booster permit for young people aged 16 and 17. We do not know when the EEA will complete the dossier for the 11- to 15-year-olds. Reportedly, the problem for a piece that Pfizer has yet to complete his file submitted to EEA. If the EEA grants the licence to 16 to 17-year-olds, we can take the appropriate decisions very quickly, as we have already asked for advice from the High Health Council. So I have not yet answered your question, because we simply do not have that licence at the moment.
