ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, now that your barometer is finally here to give our fellow citizens perspectives, tomorrow's Concertation Committee (Codeco) cannot under any circumstances disappoint them, even less since you confirmed yesterday that we are going to take a new stage, an important step, namely the passage into orange code, which implies the end of the restrictions imposed on the Horeca and the event, but also the reopening of the world of the night. This is a huge relief for those sectors which, for too long, have been unjustly stigmatized. For the rest, unfortunately, your barometer does not prevent contradictory messages sent to the population that fuel anxiety. First, on the conditions for recovery. They will have to ensure the profitability of these sectors but also avoid unfair competition from clandestine evenings in Belgium or legal evenings in neighbouring countries. Second, the fate of the Covid Safe Ticket (CST). You have always promised that this CST would not be used "one day too much", while the Minister of Health hears it as a vaccine pass. In other words, the end of the CST when we are in the yellow code is not at all achieved, despite all the experts' opinions, who now believe that the CST is no longer justified. Third, the wearing of the mask in young children. You refuse, Mr. Minister of Health, to lift this measure despite the insistent demands of the Ministers responsible for Youth and Education, but also of the actors on the ground. However, the paediatric task force had been very clear about this last December, namely that this measure should be the first to be released as soon as the pressure on our health care system is reduced, which is the case today. What measures are you going to lift tomorrow, for what date and under what conditions? Do you now have a scientific study attesting to the health effectiveness of the CST in order to be able to maintain it or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Spain, Ireland, the United Kingdom and so on, the corona measures are virtually abandoned. But in this country the epidemic emergency is going to be extended for a few months. This will be approved by the majority here today. That will happen without scientific justification. On the contrary, every forecast predicts a very rapid improvement in the situation in the coming months. Also in the opinion to the Consultative Committee by your corona Commissioner, which has already been leaked into the media, that favourable forecast is clear. Am I saying that all brakes have to be lifted, as shown by the offer of the vivaldi parties in the last week? No, but there is no justification for a legal exception. Vigilance and caution have nothing to do with the discriminatory CST pass, which is still being applied today. The use of the corona pass is even reinforced by making it dependent on the third prick from 1 March. While you promised that this coronapas would not last a day longer than necessary, we hear your liberal friends in the European Commission openly pleading to extend the CST pass until the summer of 2023. Complete madness, Prime Minister. We know that, with your European ambitions, you are always waiting for President Macron before you dare to move. Well, yesterday, the spokesperson of that French government, Secretary of State Gabriel Attal, announced the end of the vaccination pass, possibly at the end of March or early April. Hence my very simple question. Are you going to do what you need to do on the Consultation Committee tomorrow and finally get rid of that totally counterproductive CST pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, no coronapas, no mouth mask, not a meter and a half. Forward has always said to relax step by step and safely, so that we can finally get our freedom back. And it's getting closer and closer. People have had to sacrifice a lot in this corona crisis: no hug, no relaxation, no sport, no parties and endless amount of time in their own home. We must never underestimate how heavy this weighs on people. We see it in all generations, we hear it from friends and family. Fortunately, we now have a barometer. A barometer with a clear path towards our normal life, a barometer that gives people clarity and perspective. Yes, we must be well prepared for the unexpected, for a situation that we hope will not come. But that does not mean that we must retain measures that are no longer necessary. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Health is dealing with these corona measures exactly in the same way: not to use them if necessary. This is precisely the line to be maintained during the next Consultative Committee: what needs to be done - what can be done. Tomorrow, of course, is not just about the colour of the barometer, as it does not determine all the measures. Those other measures must also be decided, and that creates an important responsibility for you. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, can you promise that tomorrow our security will be protected where it should be and that we will get our freedom back where we can?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u5	Prime Minister, Minister, tomorrow the Consultative Committee will meet again, and thanks to the predictability of the barometer, we already know that a number of relaxations are coming when we go to code orange. Those relaxations were also a topic of conversation at my kitchen table this morning, because my children also hear that there will be no need for mouth masks in the catering industry, at certain events and at many of their hobbies. That is of course good, because it indicates that we can be hopeful that the corona figures allow that at the moment. Right away, the question came as to whether the mouth masks should still be in the classroom. I understand that question, because children and young people are rightly tired of it. They have two years of switching behind the back between digital classes and going back to class, quarantined, quarantined out, keeping their boyfriends away, keeping their grandparents away. The Commissioner for Children's Rights also rightly warns this morning that the mental well-being of our children and young people is in code black. That doesn't go to code orange. It calls for children and young people to be put at the centre of the first relaxations. I can only welcome that. I have two questions about this. What proposals specifically for children and young people are on the table tomorrow and what does the GEMS say about this? What will the Consultation Committee do in response to the child rights commissioner's question to blacken our children out of their mental code?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, during the Corona crisis, CD&V has always called for special attention to be paid to children and young people. This week, our Flemish minister, Benjamin Dalle, was the first to launch a campaign for the abolition of the oral masking obligation for children from 6 years of age. As a former primary school teacher, I support that 100%. As far as I'm concerned, the duty of mouth masking children in primary school will be the first to get kicked tomorrow. Mouth masks hinder social contacts and concentration and especially affect the weakest pupils. In addition, almost 30% of children between 5 and 11 years of age have received their first shot. Let's face it, Prime Minister, children shouldn't pay for more freedom for adults. Mouth masks in the schools, while discotheques, restaurants, cafes and concert halls re-open, I can't get that explained. (a Member of the European Parliament says: "we don't either"l Flemish Health Minister Wouter Beke has argued that Flemish young people between 12 and 17 years old can voluntarily receive their booster shot. Here, willingly, is the key word. We need to ensure that whether or not it opts for a booster shot does not affect the validity of the CST of young people. If a young person chooses not to receive a booster shot, he should not receive a red CST. Finally, a word about teleworking. As far as we are concerned, we are moving away from mandatory telework and moving to a recommendation for teleworking. (...) (micro is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, Omicron has plunged us into red for many weeks. But now the situation is getting better every day. Hospitalisation is decreasing, and the same applies to contamination. Even if I particularly like red, I wish that color could be pale and we could switch to orange. Of course, it would be a great pleasure for our friends in the CDH! Prime Minister, Minister, tomorrow's Codeco must lead to relaxation. I'm certainly not going to be playing lessons here. I leave this to others. However, there is a certainty. Our people, our citizens, want only one thing: to return to life before, to remove the mask of our children in schools, to reopen sectors of activity too long closed and suffering from this crisis but also to be able not to be in a hurry when we go for a drink with friends or when we go to eat at the restaurant with family. Yes, we have a lot of hope in tomorrow's Codeco. That's right, I'm hoping we'll eliminate the requirement to wear masks in schools. I hope we can go back to the workplace more. I hope there are fewer constraints on recreational activities. But, as I said, I will not participate in the stallion race that always prevails on Codeco's watches. I trust you to make the right decisions. Prime Minister, Minister of Health, what measures will they be on the Codeco table this Friday? Are you considering reviewing the use of the CST? While it certainly had its usefulness at the beginning of the pandemic, it is very much to bet that it no longer fully fulfils its objectives today. An evaluation is required. Finally, have there been consultations with the various sectors on the changes envisaged and the precise deadlines for their implementation so that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u8	Prime Minister, I think that Members of the majority did not go through the Chamber's agenda properly, because they will soon approve the extension of the epidemiological emergency. You think this is necessary, even if it goes against logic. Is it true that tomorrow, on the Consultation Committee, you will be advocating the introduction of code black? What further stricter measures will you put on the table? Soon, under the fervent leadership of Minister Vandenbroucke, we will introduce the epidemiological emergency, while on all sides we will advocate relaxation. Something is not right and public opinion is probably tired of that joke. The questions are obvious. What happens to the CST? I would like to address the Minister for Health: what happens to the mouth cap? Can elementary school kids go to dancing? There they can take off their mouth cap to get from a long day at school. It is expected to be answered in a consistent manner tomorrow. I would like to point out a subtlety, noted by Mr Jiroflée. According to her, we may soon be able to abolish the CST and then keep it ready to enter it back when the time comes. May I conclude from those words that it is a keeper, that this is simply being cradled to sleep for a while, but must always remain on our mobile phones to be activated again when some situation gives rise to it? Will the CST be abolished or, like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats, will it simply be temporarily put into action, in order to keep it ready for final use when this is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u9	Ministers, Denmark is lifting all measures, including the health pass. Catalonia lifts the sanitary pass. Sweden, France, the Netherlands: all countries are reducing pandemic-related restrictions. And what is happening in Belgium this afternoon in this Parliament? We're going to extend the Pandemic Law, not for a month, not for two months, but for three months! This Pandemic law allows you to close sectors overnight. That is what you are busy voting this afternoon. Tomorrow the Codeco will take place. After two years of anti-democratic and ineffective crisis, people are really tired of it! First, I'll approach the Covid Safe Ticket. Too often we forget it, it is a huge infringement of our fundamental freedoms. But it was put in place by saying, "This will allow us to regain the kingdom of freedom." It's a promise that hasn't been kept. Today, more and more studies show that it is more ineffective. I repeat: people don't want it anymore! Second, the world of the night. If there's an area that's been sluggish for two years, and has been almost continuously closed, it's the world of discotheques. A few months ago, they bought thousands of self-tests at their own expense to have to close a few days later and stay with all these self-tests on their arms. They've invested in extractors. They collaborated on the covid protocol in the sector. Today, they are asking for a date, not only to be able to reopen but also to be able to guarantee the survival of their sector in the long term. That's really what they need. Thirdly, there are schools; this morning the teachers were still on the street, not only because of the chronic underfunding of which they are victims, but also to ask for the lifting of certain measures. Here we are thinking especially about wearing the mask for children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your questions together with the Minister for Health. First, I'm gonna go into the epidemic situation. Indicators are clearly evolving in the right direction. We look mainly at the number of hospitalizations and the pressure on intensive care, but also other parameters indicate how the pandemic is evolving and the main dimensions are positive. The corona commissioner therefore indicates that it is recommended to switch from the code red to the code orange for the barometer, which we use as a structure. It is good to see that there is at last a political consensus on the possibility of a step being made more flexible. The barometer gives us predictability and also clearly indicates which relaxations can take place. It means the nightlife will open. That is what we define as dynamic indoor activities. The barometer also makes clear which relaxations can take place in the catering sector. Those are important steps. These steps can be taken on the basis of the results achieved, which are a credit to all of us. Questions have been asked about how we dealt with the pandemic. The evaluation will take place at some point, but I would like to highlight some of the features of how we have dealt with the pandemic in our country. We have always done so with the necessary gradualness, always in a very step-by-step way. We have always implemented soothings step by step. The first results indicate that this approach has worked well. The objective was to ensure that our healthcare system is not put under too much pressure. Well, I see that, both last year and early this year, the pressure never got too high. Another objective was to avoid high excess mortality. The figures of excess mortality for 2021 indicate that we have succeeded. Another objective was to prevent the destruction of our economic fabric. The figures for the number of bankruptcies and the unemployment figures indicate that we have succeeded. So we have opted for a gradual, step-by-step approach, and I urge that we continue to use it. This is how the barometer was designed. It is necessary to proceed step by step. The barometer is clear in some areas. With regard to others, it is less precise; here I am thinking in particular of wearing the mask and teleworking. Of course, steps must also be taken in these areas, but in the most progressive way possible. This method has been of great help to us so far. We must continue in this way. A lot of questions have been asked about the CST. I understand that Parliament has questions about the epidemiological value of the CST. Understand, however, that we have decided in the Conciliation Committee that the debate on this matter is just to take place in Parliament. The Consultation Committee has asked Parliament, where a debate is already taking place on how to increase the vaccination rate, to look very specifically at the epidemiological value of the CST today in the management of the pandemic. I hope that the debate here can take place properly and that the Consultation Committee can take Parliament's input on how we should use the CST. I've been making myself clear. We won't be using it for a day too long. Allow me to point out that I think a debate on this in Parliament would be very useful. Finally, we are not in an endemic situation today. Many suggest that omikron is less heavy than expected and that we are steadily leaving the pandemic. I hope it is, but the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control warns that it is premature to say that COVID-19 is an endemia today. There are two reasons for this: firstly, the fact that the number of infections remains high and, secondly, the fact that the risk of increased pressure on our health system remains very noticeable. I would therefore urge that, despite the fact that we will be able to implement a number of relaxations tomorrow, which will begin at the end of next week, we retain the necessary caution. We were always faced with uncertain factors in the pandemic. A number of things are in our hands. What we ourselves have in hand is the gradual phasing-out of our measures and is the booster campaign, which I can say is a very great success compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u11	Colleagues, the barometer forces us with the simple scheme of red, orange and yellow to recognize colour. Are we able to keep to agreements, agreements we made a month ago about a safe step-by-step plan and relax safely? Can we stick to that? That's the question. After all, the citizens wanted predictability and therefore politicians who keep to agreements. All signs indicate we'll be going to code orange by the second half of February. The situation in health care points to this. This means no more closing hours for cafes and restaurants and more opportunities in cultural events venues. This also means that nightlife opens under safe conditions. We will talk about teleworking and wearing mouth masks. Agreements were also made with the state governments, Mr De Roover. That's right. Something's not right. You're absolutely right. Something's not right in your speech. Appointments have been made with the state governments that we will use the covidticket in code orange and no longer in code yellow. Mrs Rohonyi, as far as scientific studies are concerned, you will be able to read a rather robust one which has been published in France and which shows that, in the latter country, 4,000 deaths have been prevented as a result of the well-organized introduction of a Covid Safe Ticket. As I said yesterday, we can criticise the way in which we introduced it, because it was late, and we should have avoided certain effects. It is probably a form of self-criticism to formulate. But when you say that it has no consequences, then invite these people here! They'll tell you that there were 4,000 fewer deaths in France thanks to the Covid Safe Ticket. This is a study, and others have also been published. Mr Demon, you asked about the application of the Covid Safe Ticket for young people. The screen is indeed turning green for adults who have been vaccinated with the booster, but since there is no authorisation from the EEA for boosters for minors, we will not be demanding that they be boosted. I agree with you and we will try to organise it in this way. Mrs. Creemers, you spoke of the masks. You generally agree with the experts, I think. The same goes for me, and I therefore fully agree with the advice of the experts in Ghent regarding oral masks for children. I hope that is also the case for you. They advise not to immediately abolish the mouth masks, but to work with a safe step-by-step plan, starting with thinking about the youngest children and taking the time they talk about after the crocus holiday and working gradually. That can happen in a safe step-by-step plan, even when it comes to mouth masks. I think you can explain that to your children. It's also about school security, if there's a lot of virus going around. It is also about the fact that children who have not yet been vaccinated do not become ill. We can explain that. I can perfectly explain why we decided to open cafes months ago and why we should not wear a mouth mask when drinking a pint. That's kind of hard, too. At the same time, we say that in schools where children sit together and where virus can collect in the air, especially if there is not enough ventilation, one must wear a mouth mask. I can explain that perfectly. I can perfectly explain why the sector of nightlife after so much misery can finally be opened again, with ventilation requirements and under conditions, because one can only enter with a Covid Safe Ticket. In schools, however, we will follow the expert advice in terms of mouth masks and be careful to relax. Mrs Merckx, in the end, you are against all the measures. You're extremely predictable. It's like the barometer. You're against masks, for the immediate opening of discotheques. You were also against the closure of the Horeca. You're against the Covid Safe Ticket. The Belgian Labour Party is the party of the virus! You are against all the measures that have been put in place to limit the virus. Viruses from all countries, unite! Finally, a party defends you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as the night world is concerned, I have heard very little of you. I hope that the ventilation systems in which these sectors have invested in particular will be taken into account. With regard to the CST, you brandish each time a French study. In France, however, the system is not the same; they have a vaccination pass. This clearly demonstrates the usefulness of having a scientific evaluation of the system set up in Belgium, and not in other countries. We have GEMS to do that. Why not ask him? Instead, you are giving the hot potato back to Parliament, again, as you have done for compulsory vaccination because you are not able to agree, also knowing that what has been refused in the Committee on Health is precisely to hold hearings on the CST. Finally, on the masks for children, I hear the progressive lifting of this measure. I thank you for this, but the damage inflicted on children in their physical and mental well-being (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u13	In fact, it cannot be explained that children from primary school have to walk around with a mouth mask for a whole day. You should never have introduced that. This oral masking obligation for small children should be abolished, as should the CST. If it depends on Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Jambon, the coronabarometer, in which the CST is anchored, will be used until this summer. By summer, abolishing a coronapas is like taking measures at high energy prices from 1 April, after the cold winter months. That's hopelessly too late. That coronapas must be abolished immediately before that thing has become a part of our lives. More and more people realize that it is high time to abolish them. More and more parties realize that this is the case. They're finally following us in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u14	A crisis can bring people closer together, but can also lead to political games, as in the past. Too often there has been an offer of relaxations which then did not continue. Too often there have been parties that scored cheaply and then dive away. In advance, always chooses to work on clear principles, to be predictable when a crisis allows. We have a real opportunity right now to go back to normal step by step. Tomorrow it's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u15	I agree that we should follow the experts. They now also say that we must think about the mental well-being of our children, in balance with the measures taken outside the schools. If we put mouth masks in schools because air quality is not good enough, then we need to do something about that air quality and not put a mouth mask on these children all the time. I've got another homework spot for tomorrow. I hope that tomorrow, on the occasion of the second anniversary of this pandemic, you will also be able to reflect on the organisation of collective mourning. We need to give a place together to what we've all suffered. This concerns not only the deceased, but also the grief that has not been dealt with. I hope that, in all serenity, with all the governments of this country, this can be considered calmly. We owe that to our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u16	I'm glad we agree on the CST. Young people who do not want or have received booster shots cannot be the victims of this. We also agree on the masks whose use should be phased out. However, we do not agree on the timing. CD&V is clear on this, the children and the young are the ones most affected. Prime Minister, Minister, I dare ask you to show that fire tomorrow when it comes to young people and children. For the one week up to the crocus holiday it might be the solution to allow the children without a mouth mask in classes where they can be ventilated properly. For the classes where this is more difficult, one might find an intermediate solution. Please, choose those kids tomorrow, choose those kids.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u17	Prime Minister, Minister, the covid and his variants have often surprised and hurt us. More than once, it was necessary to adjust, adapt, sometimes go back to decisions that were not always the right ones. Today, more than ever, we need a long-term vision. Certainly, this barometer will be able to help us, by keeping under the elbows of the tools, measures that may have to be reactivated if the situation deteriorates again. But your answer is encouraging. A spring perfume floats on tomorrow's Codeco. A sweeter life should be able to give way to the still important constraints that we are experiencing today. This return of freedoms is possible if the Codeco fully plays the map of coherence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u18	You referred to France, Minister Vandenbroucke. How many kids will be saved if we let them wear a mouth mask in the next few weeks? You should have mentioned that number here. You must also take into account the well-being that is on the other side, but I do not have the impression that you are doing so. The disadvantages of your measures are always pushed aside, which is not taken into account. CD&V Minister Dalle would have been the first to bring this up. That is questionable, but I hope you will give him a listening ear. You have not answered my question as to whether the CST will be abolished. The Prime Minister did say that the CST will no longer be used under code yellow. You have not been told that we will abolish it. You both need to be clear about that one day...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u19	Minister, how dare you speak to me like this, with such arrogance? I'm from the virus party! You've been mishandling this crisis for so many months. It is not a second, a third, a fourth, a fifth wave that we have had to fight on the ground! The kingdom of freedom was going to come with the CST, with the vaccination. There's nothing! You're fighting at Codeco, you're not getting out of your fights between yourself! Where is the investment in prevention? Where is the long-term investment, you who also want to close vaccination centers soon? Where is the support for the first line we are calling for? We doctors in the field are tired of your crisis management!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u20	Mr. Secretary, cooking food, moving around, heating the house, everything is getting more and more expensive. Last week, the government took a package of crisis measures to counter rising invoices. The Prime Minister mentioned one measure in particular. The purchasing power in our country is protected by indexation. Prices are rising very fast at the moment and many people are getting into trouble. That is why we Socialists have introduced automatic wage indexation and have always defended it. We will continue to do the same. If invoices are to rise, wages will have to rise automatically. It's as simple as that. Today, however, a number of large companies are once again questioning this indexation. Are they having a hard time? I don't think so. Less than a week ago, the National Bank said that profits do not increase faster anywhere else in Europe than in Belgium. Yet they dare to say without shame that the wages of those who work for these large profits should not rise with the sky-high invoices that we have been facing for months now. Inventing myths seems to be a recurring ritual. "We are talking about our competitive position, but the labour market is incredibly tight. We are asked what we have to pay for it, while the profits have never been so great. We are talking about inflation, but we have had very little inflation for years due to indexation. No, for them, that's just a saving operation. A new myth has emerged. Without an index, the trade unions could negotiate better. As if the weakest would see their wages rise when the strong government falls away. I asked the bogus bike messengers yesterday and their wages are not rising. With a fabricated root, some are now trying to break down social protection. This is a government with socialists. That makes a difference. No index jump in crisis time! Minister, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u21	Madam President, I was surprised to see the Prime Minister leaving the semi-round. The series of oral questions contains a question from Peter De Roover to the Prime Minister. Suddenly that's gone; just like the Prime Minister, by the way. Do I have to go after him to ask my question? This is weird. Where's Wally?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u22	I think we can continue. On my list, I don't see any question from Mr. From Roover to the Prime Minister. You have already had the opportunity to intervene (...) Who has the right list? In any case, the one that was distributed does not include your question. Are you talking about Mr. Anseeuw's? Are you referring to Mr Anseuw's oral question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u23	No, Madam President. I have the same list as Minister Dermagne, who has been called forward to his surprise, as if he is eager to listen to my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u24	We will inquire about the services, if you wish. In any case, the list contains a question that you have just asked the Prime Minister. Your question on energy prices will be answered according to the list by Minister Van der Straeten. The group was informed that that question was answered by Minister Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u25	Madam President, Minister Dermagne was apparently not notified, at least not according to the list he was handed over. We are having a special day today. I have put a question to the Prime Minister, who is assigned to the Prime Minister. Mr Laaouej may not think anything is important, perhaps we might as well delete the oral questions. My question was assigned to the Prime Minister. Suddenly there is a new list of oral questions, I do not know exactly how, and on that list my question has disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u26	Mr De Roover, you are probably referring to the provisional list, not the final list. You must assume the final list. We shall continue with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u27	Madam President, Minister, you know the proverb 'the dogs bark, the caravan moves on'. In the Wetstraat we could translate that as 'a party chairman gives an interview, the government executes the coalition agreement'. That coalition agreement is very clear. One of its main lines is the ambition to achieve an activity rate of 80% by 2030. More people at work will only be able to work if the reforms are implemented. They must adapt our strict rules to the new work and to an economy that is changing, greening and digitising. That is why the government decided in October to launch a number of important measures, reforms that adapt the rules on how and when we work to the 21st century. I would remind you of a few measures: the possibility of performing a full-time work week in four days; to work in a full-time job one week more than 38 hours and the other week less; to get more support for getting back to work with long-term termination periods after dismissal; to facilitate the transition to another sector with more future, without first entering unemployment and, finally, to ease evening and night work in e-commerce, so that we can no longer lose those jobs abroad. We're running out of time. We must now ensure that the economic tissue can recover quickly after the corona crisis. We need to provide oxygen so that companies and their employees can seize the opportunities that lie ahead. I therefore have two important questions. What is the state of play with regard to the measures in the employment deal? When will you knock on these urgently needed and urgent reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I would like to talk to you about e-commerce as part of the work deal. It is not so much a question of the debate on whether or not e-commerce will survive in our country. That is not relevant, because there are already 30,000 people working in this sector, but the real question we need to ask ourselves is the circumstances in which we want these people to be employed. There are two possibilities. Either we continue along the road, which Comeos also proposes, of the large lobby group of wholesale companies and the e-commerce that wants further flexibilisation. In the long term, they are also likely to organise further social dumping with far more lower wages in order to end up in Amazon's model. We all know it. Either we choose the 30,000 employees who are already employed in e-commerce. Those are people who are already working in difficult circumstances. That's 30,000 people sorting, preparing and delivering our packages. Minister, there is a scientific consensus that flexibility in working time and increased night work harms health. It also largely awakens family life, because qualitytime is lost. That may be less for the government, but it is a bitter reality for more and more people. It is not a question of the absence of night work, but of the fact that it is a loss of health for workers. That must also be compensated, Minister. Me and my party are on the side of those 30,000 employees in e-commerce. I have the impression that you, as a socialist, but also this government, are taking the side of the big business and the profit margins. You want to be able to decide together with the government that (...) [[micro is being deactivated]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u29	Madam President, Minister, the e-commerce sector in Belgium today represents more than EUR 11 billion, 11 000 direct jobs and 4 000 additional jobs via subcontractors. Therefore, e-commerce is not limited to Amazon and Alibaba. In our country, more than 46,000 webshops offer a showcase for our very small businesses and self-employed, and become a complementary source of income. According to various studies, we lose almost 15,000 jobs each year because our labour market is too rigid. These jobs end up forming a wall on the other side of the border. Therefore, when I heard your party president say that we had to make Belgium a country without e-commerce, I confess that I fell from my chair. Indeed, a country without e-commerce is neither a credible option nor a possible reality. Moreover, to make this kind of statement is to neglect employers' federations, wage-earners, self-employed people and SMEs who make extensive use of e-commerce opportunities, especially since the co-vid crisis. Of course, an attempt to backpaedalize has indeed been initiated. But I'm afraid the harm will be done. One could laugh at the situation if there was no question of providing concrete answers for a labour market in line with its time. Let's be clear, no one has asked you to let the workers go between midnight and five in the morning! Mr Minister, tomorrow, a special Kern Employment will look at measures to reform the labour market to increase the employment rate to 80%, which is your responsibility. Do you confirm the implementation of an e-commerce pilot project, as foreseen in the project to be discussed tomorrow? Will you be on the side of the progressives who want a dynamic and efficient labour market or on the side of the nostalgic of past centuries, despite the attempt to backpaedalize?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u30	Madam President, Minister, wages are too low in Belgium. People can't pay their energy bills anymore. They can't pay for their errands anymore. They can't afford transportation anymore. The proof is that wages are too low. Indeed, a good salary must allow people to live in dignity. Yesterday, in its report, the Central Economic Council spoke about wage disadvantage. As a result, the employer draws a conclusion and, while for 2023-2024 you had only 0.4%, he now says: "0.0%, because of the wage handicap." I have read the whole statement of the FEB; we see everything, except for something: the profits of the companies, which are getting fatter, ladies and gentlemen, as we have never seen before. Here are some examples, here we go! Unilever: 6 billion profits, KBC earns 2.6 billion euros profit. Kling, kling. The crisis works for everyone! Ten o'clock this morning, Arcelor-Mittal's results are 15 billion profits. Fifteen billion profits, thanks to the workers of Arcelor-Mittal in Ghent! Isn't it enough? ING more than 700 million euros. You're going to tell me, "Raoul, you're exaggerating, they're just a few specific companies." Echo, which is not the newspaper of the PTB, says: "Belgian companies have never had such high profit margins." So, we make crazy money, bosses keep talking about wages, but not a word about the profits that are exploding, liberals! Mr Socialist Minister, you have taken a royal decree that freezes wages at 0.4%. The unions asked to blow up the 1996 law. What do you think? Should we blow her up? I want a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u31	Minister, the labour market is on fire. Companies that are denounced here on the left, even though they provide jobs, are barely filled in their vacancies. But it's work deal week and that sounds promising, of course, though more promising than it actually will be. In the meantime, we all know what happens to government agreements to make work in this country more attractive: they are simply not being implemented. Let us take a look at the budget agreement on night work in e-commerce that you concluded at the end of last year. As a first step, you would seek advice from the social partners. Two months later, you haven't even asked that question. However, in the case of measures which reduce the difference between working and non-working in this country, which makes work less attractive, you are there as the chickens to carry it out as soon as possible. This is incomprehensible, especially when people know that 2 million people are not working in this country, whereas they could in some way. You do not make work and entrepreneurship more attractive in this country, quite the contrary. Last week, when we hear your own party chairman's statements about a country without e-commerce, it is quite clear to me that with your PS, but actually with the entire De Croo government, we are slipping into a horse and cart labour market. But that is not what the Flemings have chosen, that is not what Flanders wants. It'll be all right with you, of course. When it comes to labour market reforms, the government agreement remains dead letter one and a half years after the date. Effectiveness, labour market policy, which is about bread on the shelf, about the incomes with which families can pay their energy bills. Mr. Secretary, how much longer? To say it with the words of a party chairman of one of your coalition partners, how long will you remain the Minister of Unemployment and when will you finally become the Minister of Labour?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u32	Minister, last week a senior nurse told me that in a hospital operating quarter a team of six was decapitated and that there are three left. The hospital won't find a replacement. Today there are five vacancies for one job seeker nurse. Yesterday I was in contact with a metal company, which has been looking for 30 metal workers since March 2021. The company won't find them. I can go a long way. I will be asked what my government will do about it. I would reply that we have taken measures and adopted, among other things, an asymmetric policy, in particular to employ the unemployed temporarily. We have decided that labour mobility should be improved and that very concrete initiatives should be put in place on the activation of bottlenecks in the professions. Today I see that, four or five months later, we have very carefully set up a first platform to deal with the situation. I also reply that we have taken measures to increase flexibility. We have taken measures in the areas of night work, shiftwork and the four-day working week, and we have made it possible to work flexibly in a sustainable way. Colleagues, we have also taken measures for the platform economy and e-commerce and we do not want to reverse the clock either. We do want labour to be used in a sustainable way. Minister, I have to say that decisions taken in October 2021, today we are already in February 2022 - still not translated into measures. I've been asking you that for weeks now. Will you make a decision on Friday? After the first reading, the text still has to be sent to the Council of State for an opinion, a second reading will take place and you will have to submit it to Parliament. That means April-May 2022. As the other speakers have said, the Flemish labour market is bleeding. People want decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u33	Minister, this afternoon you are called upon to come and answer questions on different topics, different debates. I want to discuss with you a cross-cutting issue: how to protect workers in a changing world of work. There are three elements to this debate. The first is relocation. Last night, it was announced, AGC relocates and removes 187 jobs in Fleurus. I regret that decision. Protection for these workers must be guaranteed. Respect for their rights, the Renault procedure that works, training to find a job; they must be protected. Second element, indexation. In the face of repeated attacks on wages, it must be said and reiterated that quality wages are part of the solution, that in the face of inflation and rising prices such as energy, and that alongside the initiatives taken by the Minister of Energy, wage indexation is part of the solution. Some here have made an index jump. With ecologists, we don't touch indexing, it's a protection of purchasing power. Minister, I know you on the same side as we do on this. Finally, the third element is your reform of the labour market. Platform workers, for example, must be protected. Being protected but also keeping freedom, because that's what they're waiting for, that's what they're looking for. They must be able to keep on finding what they're looking for. Being an employee is a good start and, with complete social protection, there are solutions to be invented. This applies also to other elements of your reform. Minister, as you know, evening work is not an option for us, ecologists. If you need to find solutions for some companies, you also need to ensure that workers can refuse them and that they are therefore properly protected. In the end, our vision as ecologists is very clear: the important thing is that the labour market adapts to today's workers, and we hope that the protection of these workers will of course be as strong as possible. Minister, what do you intend to do in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your many questions which once again demonstrate the importance of this subject, namely the functioning of our economy and our labour market in Belgium. First of all, I'd like to start with numbers. The figures are stubborn and in terms of employment rates, they have now reached an unprecedented level for decades: 71.4% of employment rates in Belgium. This is 1.5% higher than when this government took office. This is 1% more than before the onset of the coronavirus crisis. There are 60,000 fewer unemployed in our country, 50,000 fewer unemployed than at the beginning of the coronavirus crisis. To say that nothing has been done is not true! It was necessary to support the economy. It was necessary to support the world of work. It has sometimes been necessary to fight within this majority to obtain these support measures, to ensure that our economic fabric, that our world of work goes through this crisis with as little damage as possible. Today, the numbers are here. They're stubborn. The world of work, the business world, thanks in particular to the support decided by the federal government and the majority, has been able to keep their heads out of the water, and I welcome it. Of course, that's not enough. Of course, we need to go further and the goal is still there: 80% employment rates by 2030. That is why, with this government, we have developed a restart and transition plan that includes an important work component. The main objectives of this plan were recalled by Mrs De Jonge: a better reconciliation between private and professional life, the fight against jobs in short supply, support for the continuing training of workers, special attention also to new sectors of activity such as e-commerce and the platform economy. These texts, these agreements, they had to be translated into a bill. That's what I did. This text is currently under discussion within the government. Unfortunately, I still do not have the opportunity to decide on my own. Indeed, there are sometimes lively exchanges on some points but also constructive exchanges to bring this text to fruition as quickly as possible, which I absolutely want. This plan is, of course, a whole, with elements of balance. Mrs. Cornet called him back. I want to reassure those who doubt it. There are indeed important elements concerning e-commerce or the platform economy. It's essential to me. As far as specific e-commerce issues are concerned, there are indeed some provisions concerning evening work, from 20.00 p.m. to midnight, with formal changes to set up this evening work. On the other hand, there is nothing to do with abandoning the payment of an over-salary as it is today. There is also evidence of the possibility of pilot projects in the field, as had already been done in the past. There is also, in the new e-commerce, in addition to the government agreement, the launch of an e-commerce strategy for Belgium. In this context, the Government instructed the Central Economic Council to analyse the situation in a comprehensive manner, including tax aspects, mobility aspects, environmental aspects, the issue of delivery prices, the question of competition between Belgian platforms and foreign platforms, and the question of illegal business practices of certain foreign actors. We have the will, of course, to ensure that e-commerce is tomorrow in Belgium more social and environmental, and therefore more virtuous. With regard to your questions on flexibility, the start-up plan is very clear on the fact that it concerns a better balance between work and private life in the interests of the worker and at his request. It is in this sense that the draft law will be submitted to the social partners. In connection with the wage evolution, the 1996 Act provides for the Secretariat of the Central Council for Business to prepare an interim report on wage costs developments in Belgium and in the analogue countries. This happens in the year when there are no negotiations on the margin for wage increases. That report shall not include a maximum margin available. Yesterday, like you, I read about the work of the CRB secretariat. According to the report, the labour cost difference in 2019 was 0 %. In view of the evolution in 2021 and 2022, this would be 1.2 %. This does not take into account the reduction of social security contributions of the tax shift 2016 nor the wage subsidies. The report sets out several elements. They can explain why wages in Belgium are rising faster than the average of the analogue countries. The main reason is the stronger inflation in our country, which is mainly due to higher energy prices. In France and Germany, this increase is less high, partly due to the blocking of energy prices in France and the increased share of fixed contracts in Germany. That may not explain everything. The CRB will investigate this further, together with the CREG. Expectations for the coming period are another important element in the report. The other countries will make a catch-up there, and there too, wages will be adjusted to the rise in inflation. There too, the workers are asking for such an adjustment of wages to the lifespan. In addition, minimum wages are increased in the Netherlands and Germany. Due to rising energy prices, inflation is higher than estimated in the previous report. It is expected to be lower than initially estimated by 2023 and even lower than in the analogue countries. As you know, Mr Hedebouw, I have also asked the National Bank of Belgium to carry out further investigations into the increase in profit margins of companies and the pricing of goods and services. The government has also requested a study from the CREG on the overprofits in the energy markets. The report also points out that there are still a lot of uncertain elements and that the calculations made by the corona crisis were not clear. There was a high level of temporary unemployment and aid measures were granted in Belgium and in the analogue countries. It is far too early to make a definite statement on the expected wage margin for 2023 and 2024. I will therefore, together with the government, follow closely the further developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u35	Minister, may I ask you to respect the speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u36	Minister, I have always said that a good job is the basis for a healthy and happy life. The right-wing rhetoric we hear will not help ordinary workers. I haven't really heard about maintaining automatic indexation. Let the big multinationals complain, because they are not going to make a euro less profit. When one speaks to middle-class people, one knows that the worries and the pressure are only increasing. It is therefore important for the government to provide their security. Come on, let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's In any case, we will always defend and protect automatic indexation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u37	Minister, I agree that small steps have been taken, and I am pleased to hear that you are in the final stage of some important decisions. I hope that you will come to the Chamber soon, so that these absolutely necessary reforms can be implemented. We are suffering from labour shortages, and then we need to react quickly and adequately. A number of colleagues hate the word flexibility, but we need to break the strict rules so that we can get more people to work and keep them. Labour market reforms also include fiscal reforms. The tax burden on labour is far too high in our country. A reduction in the burden on labour is therefore necessary. The challenge of achieving the 80% level of effectiveness is great; the reforms associated with it are all the greater.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u38	Minister, you did not really answer my question. Tomorrow is on the table that the night premium can be abolished for people who work in e-commerce between 8:00 and 12:00. If you do so, you will further undermine the status of employees in e-commerce. Mr Minister, your President Magnette said a few days ago that he did not want e-commerce in Belgium because of the poor working conditions. But, as a socialist minister, you may decide tomorrow to further aggravate these working conditions! It's really hypocritical! The PVDA will always oppose further flexibilisation and the further erosion of the status of night work, together with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u39	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, which confirms your willingness to support and deploy e-commerce in Belgium, and I can only welcome it. Tomorrow, you will participate in an important meeting where we will talk about a modern, flexible and efficient labour market. I ask you to keep in mind two elements. First of all, we need to reach an employment rate of 80%, as you pointed out. As Minister of Labour and Economy, you bear the responsibility. We await your written proposals. Then I would like to remind you that the government agreement states that the digital revolution is a major development that is radically changing our economy and society. The government is committed to developing an inter-professional framework with the social partners that allows for greater freedom, while ensuring the protection of workers. Minister, there is a government agreement – and that is the only road map that needs to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u40	Minister, I note that you did not answer my question on the 1996 Act. Once again, you avoided the subject. Unfortunately, at the end of March-early April, you – the left – will be forced to pronounce yourself. Because the unions have gathered more than 25,000 signatures, you will have to stand up against this law that locks up wages. You won't have a choice, you won't be able to do the same as today. And then, secondly, on the question of e-commerce, what a difference between words outside the government and what it decides inside! Mr. Magnette, it's Jaurès outside and Paul-Henri Spaak inside. We want to eliminate e-commerce, while we Marxists are for the productive forces and the development of production instruments. The question is under what conditions we are running this program. For your part, you the PS, you decide to rename night work between 8 p.m. and midnight as "evening work", implying a loss of salary. There's the problem! The pilot experiments you want to carry out, with an individual contract (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u41	Minister, the left-wing parties, mainly French-speaking, are calling their hands off the index, while this is not under discussion here. It is the best way to divert attention from the real debate on our labour market. The same parties want to protect workers and complain that large companies are pulling jobs from Belgium. The best protection of workers is to ensure that they can still have a job in their own country. On the other side are mainly Flemish parties. In October, a file was agreed within the government. It was agreed in December that this should be implemented. You are soothing and saying that the level of effectiveness in this country is formidable. Thanks to a high level of effectiveness in Flanders and despite federal policy, it is. You are now simply announcing a new agreement, which is not very trustworthy, since you are not implementing all the other agreements either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u42	Mr. Secretary, everything is on the table. It's time to make a decision. This is not a left-right debate, nor is this a debate of red and blue trophies. This is a debate on the future of our labour market. Are not only multinationals, but also many SMEs, which Flanders is so rich in, still going to invest? This is about job retention. The pressure on those left behind today in sectors with an incredible cut is enormous. Do something about it. Decide. This is about the future of our labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. You obviously don't answer all the questions. I assume it's related to your speaking time. We will have the opportunity to come back to committee on the pressure on wage indexation. You remind us that the balance between personal and professional life is an important issue, and that reconciliation is an issue of well-being, which I share. The work must meet the needs of workers with, first, a correct salary, a decent salary, and following the evolution of costs. Working in good working conditions is a factor of development. With regard to e-commerce measures, I understand that this is a limited, test project that I assume will result in an evaluation. In any case, the labour market must adapt to society. In our view, this can never be done on the back and at the expense of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u44	Madam President, I did not want to interrupt the debate and I would therefore ask for the floor now, after the series of questions. I understand from you earlier that my group had been informed of the change in the order of oral questions. There's something I've been wanting to miss, and I've been in touch. I think my group was not informed. That's a first element. Secondly, the list of oral questions was emailed to the Members of Parliament. I think it is now the first time that this list has not been followed. Sometimes there are changes, but never after the last list has been sent. Madam President, I would therefore like to hear from you what happened and why the Prime Minister is not involved in the debate. It is not about me personally, although it is a coincidence that I am the group chairman of the largest opposition group. If the Prime Minister flees the debate on such an important matter, I think that is a remarkable fact. I would like to be informed as to why the questionnaire, as it was delivered to us, is not being followed. I assume you can explain that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u45	Mr De Roover, I have no further precise explanation, I can only tell you the interpretation of the services. I will ask the services again where the list was and why you would not have received an e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u46	Madam President, apart from that, I wonder where this change took place. The list said Prime Minister De Croo would answer my question. I suppose there's a reason, that's quite possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u47	There are absolutely no political reasons. We do not know why contact with your group has gone this way. I'll get that checked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u48	Madam President, you understand that this is a very embarrassing moment for the government. I will stick to that observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u49	Mr. Secretary, were you as happy as a child when you visited the Belgian pavilion in Dubai, because you immediately found a fry house, a waffle box, a chocolate shop? Were you also so lucky because when you were allowed in there from a hostess in orange probably, borrowed from the Netherlands from Lotus and you saw the photo of Eddy Merckx? I hope he doesn't see that picture himself, because he'd probably be embarrassed. And were you happy when you went upstairs to the first floor, via an escalator of Expo 58, a fantastic piece to sell our country to the rest of the world, and ended up in a regional museum, dear friend? That's good. You definitely bumped into a bike. And who was on that bike? Victor Campenaerts! We sell our bicycles as a model of our mobility. We are promoting our mobility there, while our country is 46th on the world list of bad roads and a loss of EUR 4.6 billion a year due to congestion. And how do we propagate that? With our cartoon characters. A whole wall full of them. The pier of Ostend, Strépy, the sloping plane, all beautifully drawn. And in between Lucky Luke along the Albert Canal! The Marsupilami! One can't think of it that crazy. Everyone was present, including Robbedoes. Tintin wasn't there, because it was on the moon and maybe that's too progressive for the pavilion there. And further up, on the third floor you could drink a pint and eat mussels with fries. On the fourth floor of that building stood the Gironef, the helicopter of Aunt Sidonie and Lambik. One then visits the American pavilion and what does it say when one comes out? The SpaceX. We, we sell our country there as a country of mobility. Well, I was not pleased, Minister. I suffered from substitute shame because we are selling our country to the world with that pavilion, which cost EUR 13.6 million. I ask you: why did you (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u50	Mr Dedecker, you seem to be very familiar with the Belgian pavilion in Dubai; in any case, the recall of the Commissioner-General has nothing to do with its implementation. The quarantine of the Commissioner-General on 31 January was regrettable, but was necessary because of the health situation in Dubai and Belgium. The quarantine disturbed the preparation of the royal mission of February 5, which fortunately took place and went well. The Deputy Commissioner immediately took over general coordination, with the support of the director of the pavilion. The circumstances of the isolation of the Commissioner-General were reported to me by the Belgian ambassador in Abu Dhabi and are being investigated by my services. The facts reported would be serious, but the Commissioner-General denies the facts. I therefore called him up for a conversation that will take place in the next few days. I'll make a decision after that interview.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u51	Minister, you are Minister of Economy. At the World Exhibition, 150 countries will show the best of what they have economically. What do we show? We show the comics museum, designed by Guust Flater, Gaston Lagaffe en français. That cost EUR 13.6 million. Frankly, together with the delegation of mayors and governors, I suffered from substitute shame for what we exhibit there: cartoon characters of 60 years old, a game game in which one could fly with a video mask in a minute with a drone to Mars. One could also slide cars over tables. It was fantastic, but only sad for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u52	Madam President, if I may, I would like to add a small element of reply. I did not say that in my reply, but I would like to point out that the decisions taken for the Dubai Pavilion were taken by the previous government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u53	Minister, 187 workers are in shock today. Women and men returned to their homes yesterday, with the anguish in the body; they warned their families that the worst, which was feared, had arrived: the European management of AGC will close its Fleurus site by the end of 2023, despite the efforts made. For months, the same leadership has said that the situation is serious, that it is going wrong, that we need to restructure and flexibilize, that we need to make efforts and that competition is tough. We know the discourse of these major global groups and, for months, the workers of Fleurus have been fighting to keep the work at Fleurus. They have accepted a lot of flexibility, have not hesitated to become versatile and have done everything to force the company to propose other solutions. Yesterday was the cold shower! The cutlery fell: you have to close. Last year, this group inflated its profits by more than 250% globally. One imagines that, on the big map of the world, the big bosses of the group see Fleurus as a small point among others, that one can make disappear to "strengthen other less expensive sites" - I insist on quotation marks. To maintain ultra-high returns, to increase their market share, to feed their shareholders abundantly, some groups do not see their workers or employees as the craftsmen of their success. They see them as a budgetary variable. They do not see the families of these workers, workers and employees, they see costs of production. They don't see the tragedy of a region, my region, they see the regions that are dumping. What a contempt! They despise employment and the workers, thanks to which they earn dividends. Minister, how do you intend to support the workers and ensure that every effort will be made to avoid a disaster for nearly 200 families in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u54	Madam President, Mrs Leoni, thank you for your question. Like you, it was with dismay that I learned of the decision of the AGC Group to close down its historic Fleurus site and, like all of us, I hope, my thoughts go in the first place to 187 workers and their families. Together with the colleagues of the Wallonia government, the minister-president, the minister of the economy and the minister of employment, we are of course fully mobilized to support these 187 workers and their families. In the near future, we will meet with the workers' representatives and the management of the company in order to take stock of the situation and assess the various options available. For my part, as Federal Minister for Employment, I will of course ensure that the Renault procedure is scrupulously respected and that a serious social plan is tabled and presented to the workers' representatives. The aim is, of course, to seek alternatives to dismissals and to minimise the social impact of closure with workers' friendly solutions. We will analyse, for example, the possibilities of reclassification on the different sites of the group as well as the possibilities of pre-pension. In any case, my will is to avoid redundancies as much as possible. If this closure is confirmed, together with the Walloon Region, we will also be attentive to the future of the site in order to support employment in this region that is dear to you. I know it and you said it. It is also particularly dear to me. We will therefore ensure that the site can have a future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u55	Minister, I do not doubt for a moment your support for these 187 workers. I have no doubt about your determination to limit the damage. But today I also want to express my anger and that of my entire region in the face of such a social earthquake. What a lack of consideration for workers! Who do we think we are? How can a management of such a group come to explain to men and women who have been working for months to keep their business afloat that they will have to go home at night and tell their loved ones that, despite everything, we are going to close. We can't let that happen. I count on you and your colleagues in the Walloon Region to do everything possible to preserve employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u56	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the government agreement states that "the Mobility and Transport FPS supported by Infrabel, SNCB and various stakeholders such as regional transport companies, will develop a vision of the service and operation expected by 2040. This vision will be based on ambitious objectives in terms of modality and will aim in particular at the development of an integrated public transport system. Vision 2040 will be taken into account by SNCB and Infrabel in the planning of their investments. A study will be carried out on the technical and budgetary feasibility of progressive application by 2040". Your recent release in the press has obviously not gone unnoticed. You announce two trains per hour at each station as well as the doubling of journeys by train. These are very interesting measures. The document which has been leaked is a working document which will evolve and which will be the subject of consultation with the SNCB, Infrabel, the social partners and I shall pass on. You have also announced a technical feasibility study as set out in the government's agreement. You have developed an ambitious catalogue of measures, such as the doubling of freight, which is of particular interest to us. Minister, many measures are not quantified. Will they be at the time of your presentation to the Council of Ministers? Indeed, it is important to know what we are going to. Moreover, there are several costly measures such as the adaptive tariff, timetables, wifi, alternative energy sources for SNCB. Do you already have an idea of the budgetary cost of all these measures? In addition, do you think it was really appropriate to release a discussion paper that would be subject to changes where certain measures would not be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u57	Madam President, Mr Burton, indeed, the government wants to turn the train into the backbone of mobility. And, indeed, the government agreement provides for the writing and adoption of a 2040 vision, with what we want in 20 years for rail. How are we going to allocate, year after year, public resources in the most fair and effective way possible, like other countries that have done the same operation, to achieve these ambitious goals? I devoted the first year of my mandate to meeting with each other, to sharing foreign experiences, and to meeting with the Regions on the subject. I have written a piece to break, a document of about fifty pages that is currently under discussion and that has fled. The consultation takes place with many actors: National Labour Council, Central Economic Council, Federal Council for Sustainable Development, SNCB, Infrabel. On this basis, in the course of March, I will table a document on the government table. I hope I can be followed in these ambitions. It is not a budget plan but a vision, as the government agreement makes very clear. Budgets will have to follow at the same time. There is already the Boost plan: 600 million to strengthen the rail. There is the Fret Masterplan, which will allow us to double the volume of goods transported by 2030. There is SNCB's future public service contract and Infrabel's future performance contract, which will give them visibility for ten years on their resources, but also on the services expected. We work with order, method and ambition, because the train is good for mobility. It will avoid many traffic jams; they cost 4.5 billion euros a year. It's good for the climate. Our trips account for 30% of our CO2 emissions. It is good for the economy and for employment. I hope you will be partners and you will ride with us on the train to make mobility a freedom. We will be able to discuss it again in committee with pleasure, Mr Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that the government agreement is ambitious in this regard. What we have read demonstrates this. There is good, very good, but there are also things that will have to be reviewed, either for budgetary reasons or because of technical feasibility. You mustn't doubt it. Anyway, I think that in order to achieve something concrete – and I know that your ambition is there, like that of the whole government – it is interesting to work in discretion and communicate only when the vision is definitive and accepted by all parties. Audiard would have said you have to work a little in the felt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u59	Madam President, Minister, in the better press we could read that you like a queen's snack or full-au-vent. We could even read in that same professional literature that you like to do so in the Lunch Garden. More than that, we could even read that you get your political inspiration there and that you know what lives in Flanders. In the meantime, we hope that you will understand that prices for diesel and petrol have again reached a record level and that more and more Flemings are having trouble filling up their cars and working and living. Minister, on my question on behalf of the Flemish Interest at the October 2021 plenary session, you confirmed that you would intervene on our initiative and on our request. The next day, all the newspapers said that Minister Van Peteghem had a proposal for cheaper fuel. Het Nieuwsblad said that Minister Van Peteghem had a shock absorber ready at high fuel prices and that many people just need their car. Mr. Secretary, that's you in the picture, isn't it? Since then it has remained silent, deafeningly silent. Until today, we have heard nothing more about your proposal and ours. Minister, the car is the milk cow of the state treasury. The prices at the pump are still a third of diesel and petrol. The rest are costs, contributions, excise duties and VAT. The common Fleming fills the pump not only its tank but above all the wells of the current government. That is why we are calling for an immediate halt to the increase in excise duties. My two questions are clear. When will you finally implement the promised reverse click system? What will you do to keep prices at the pump structurally affordable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u60	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, this government is of course aware of how expensive pump prices weigh on families and on their budgets. I understand that people are looking at us for a solution, but we have to be honest. The international market pushes prices at the pump into the height. The impact of a reverse cliquet system on the price at the pump will therefore be rather limited, which does not mean that it will put a brake on rising prices. There is therefore a proposal on the government's table and discussions are ongoing. These rising prices make it clear that we need to pursue structural reforms that will structurally strengthen the purchasing power of our families. This is the best way to protect people from unforeseen price increases, as we are experiencing today. I will continue to work on this as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u61	Madam President, Minister, to this day you have been one of the so many talkers in this government. You promised to lower the VAT on gas, you only reduced the VAT on electricity. You promised to reduce VAT as from 1 March, in the meantime it will be at the earliest from April. You promised to lower fuel prices, but we haven't heard from them. Those are real tricks. Minister, do you not want or are you not allowed by the other political parties? You and your government are losing every support for the people. A tank turn has become 20 to 30 euros more expensive. The gas pump is today the jackpot of De Croo to finance the failing policy. Like gas and electricity, diesel and petrol are a basic requirement. A refueling operation must remain feasible and affordable for everyone. Minister, do something about your credibility and that of your party and this government. Not words, but deeds. Lower the price to the pump!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u62	Madam Secretary, since the end of January thousands of trucks and protesters have blocked the Canadian capital Ottawa. Shops are closed, residents don't get into their homes anymore and the atmosphere is very grim. The security forces announced a state of emergency there. In France, the Freedom Convoy is on its way to Paris, where the police have already banned the demonstration. When it rains in Paris, it drips in Brussels. The French organisations have called for everything that has wheels to organize a huge procession to our capital, Brussels. They plan to camp here for two to four weeks. Meanwhile, there are several routes circulating to get here. Everyone has the freedom to express their opinion, everyone has the right to argue. However, if the freedom of citizens is compromised, that is where we draw the line. Killing a full city isn't one, but two bridges too far for us. The last demonstration in Brussels got very out of hand, but now we are prepared. Madam Secretary, I read this afternoon that you have already taken some measures this morning. Can you explain the arrangements made with Prime Minister Vervoort and Mayor Close? How will the ban take shape throughout the territory? Are you in contact with your European colleagues? Apparently the trucks come from all over Europe, from Budapest, from the Netherlands, from Germany...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u63	Mr Vandenput, when the convoy of freedom becomes a blockade, we must intervene. The services involved are therefore doing everything they can to prevent our capital and our country from being detained by enlargement. Following consultations with Brussels Prime Minister Vervoort and the Brussels Mayor Close, we have therefore decided to ban the demonstration. They will take a decision to ensure that a ban applies to demonstrations by motorised vehicles on their territory. That's important. We are also in contact with other local authorities, because it is not excluded that the convoy or part of the convoy will also move to other locations. In any case, the police will carry out targeted checks on the main axes towards the capital and it goes without saying that this will also be done on other access routes. The police have not yet received an application for the demonstration of the European Freedom Convoy. It is very difficult to get in touch with the organizer. Efforts have been made, but the Belgian organisers are difficult to reach. It is clear that this is another form of protest which is being called for through social media. It is also very difficult to estimate in advance how many different people, in this case vehicles, will move. It is also not excluded that in this case it will be fewer trucks and more other vehicles, such as cars or mobile homes. We must follow that very closely. Coordination and organisation are in the hands of the Brussels Capital-Elsene police zone, of course in close consultation with the judicial and administrative authorities. We have a coordination meeting this evening, led by the National Crisis Centre, with all the services involved, including Defence, so that they can all prepare themselves as well as possible for the event. Of course freedom is a good thing, but we cannot accept restricting the freedom of others.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u64	I am pleased to hear that there is a ban on a freedom convoy for the city of Brussels and that border controls will take place. Indeed, we cannot tolerate shutting down the capital of Europe for two to four weeks. It would result in economic and diplomatic damage. You must ensure that the ban is imposed and enforced sufficiently and that it is not limited to Brussels City alone. There is a real chance that these convoys will reach the Brussels ring, in Grimbergen, Meise, Overijse, Zaventem and also with me in Hoeilaart. Then we are in Flemish Brabant with the misery. I have already taken steps with my Chief Constable to see how we can ensure enforcement in the Brussels ring, which runs through my area. I will also consult with colleagues from neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u65	Minister, at the beginning of February, after months of palabre and announcement, the government finally reached agreement on measures to support households in the face of rising energy prices. The least we can say is that the mountain has seriously given birth to a mouse. You have announced three measures: a reduction of VAT on electricity from 21% to 6% for four months, a cheque of EUR 100 on the electricity bill and an extension of the extended social rate. In addition to arriving terribly late - we have already denounced it - these measures will relieve households very little. First, according to some calculations, the gain for households would be only EUR 16 per month for four months, not enough to gloat the purchasing power of citizens. Some government parties are shouting victory and saying loud and clear that it is a strong support for the purchasing power of households. However, according to several calculations, including those recently done by Philippe Defeyt - I think you know him - households could lose more than they would gain. Without this measure, the index-pivot will again be exceeded in April, with an indexation planned for June. With Mr. Defeyt's measurement and calculations, this indexation will be postponed for six months. Earlier, I heard one of your colleagues in the Ecolo group say that "with ecologists, we won't touch the index." Of course, the CSC's study office does not say anything else: such a reduction in VAT would not have had this impact had it been decided a month earlier. When we remember the many months it took the government to take action, we have the right to ask ourselves serious questions. So can you assure us that this is not a poisoned gift? Will the government not give with one hand what it will immediately take from the other? Does the government have an impact modelling? Finally, do not be afraid that such a measure will promote greater (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u66	Madam President, Madam Minister, don't take it personally, but I didn't actually ask you a question. However, you are now being put in the cold by the Prime Minister. He's runnin' cowardly. Apparently, he doesn't like to be confronted with the big energy agreement that all the groups asked questions about last week. When we ask him a question today, he's gone. He's not defending it anymore. However, I had a few pertinent questions about his answers from last week. Bijvoorbeeld over zinsnede: "from the invoice of the month of March." I set "mars" in Google Translate, because in politics you have to pay attention, but it does mean "March." Last Thursday, the Prime Minister said, "This government is helping everyone." Except for the few hundred thousand people in a residential care center, or with a common counter. It was only found out afterwards. Thursday, everyone was gonna be helped. The next day a few hundred thousand people fell out of the boat. The question I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister, and perhaps Minister Van der Straeten is relevant to that, is how it is that this VAT has been reduced only for electricity, not for gas. Your colleague, Mrs De Sutter, says that the Greens did not ask. We almost suspected them, but that doesn't seem to be the case. But then who did? Who took that out? You will not confirm the suspicion that there is a Community dimension to this, or perhaps you will. That could indeed be an explanation. Please note that in this way the bulk of the invoice is not covered by your measures at all. That is why your energy agreement has naturally fallen on a cold stone in the majority of the population. Literally and figuratively: cold. Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u67	Colleagues, there are questions about purchasing power and who does what, so it's about the game rather than the content. I'll be very clear: for me, it's not a game, it's very serious! For some time after the summer, we can see that energy prices are rising. We have therefore adopted a first package of measures within the framework of the budget. Even before energy prices were rising, the Vivaldi government had increased the social tariff. The number of people who can make use of the social tariff has doubled. Two million people in this country have never experienced the result of rising prices. Saying that everything falls on a cold stone or that a mouse has been born is not correct. We have to do it. We have to do it! There are 2 million Belgians who have been protected from the beginning and who have never felt the price rise. For the others, there are also measures in the field of energy and in wider areas which were discussed in the context of the budget in October and February. Mr De Roover, the Prime Minister explained this very extensively here last week. He said what it was about. It was about indexing, the work bonus, reducing the special contributions to social security. This government is taking action for all categories of people. There is no competition between those who are having a hard time and those who are having a hard time. Your questions about purchasing power are relevant but cannot be reduced to the field of energy. In the field of energy, we have acted on a broader level. On Thursday, in committee, we voted for the energy standard, the instrument we developed with the Minister of Finance to ensure the purchasing power of households and the competitiveness of our businesses. Each year, a study will be carried out by CREG and each type of consumption will be compared to the same type of consumption in our neighbouring countries. It will be up to the regulator to propose concrete measures to the government before 1 July if he finds that there is a problem with the competitiveness of enterprises and the purchasing power of households. No, ma'am Matz, we don't give it to one side to take it from the other! In our energy policy we work in a holistic vision, complementary to each other. I am surprised, Mr De Roover, that you ask again why there is no reduction in VAT on gas. The Prime Minister explained this very specifically last week. Everyone heats up in this country in a different way. Not everyone heats on gas. There are also people who heat on masalt. Everyone is facing these price increases. That is why we have chosen to help everyone who warms up. That's why we opted for a flat-rate heating allowance. That's why. High energy prices are not gone, but this government is continuing to work to ensure that we can structurally reduce that bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u68	Madam Minister, it is clear that businesses must also be supported in this period of significant inflation, when they have already suffered the health crisis. What I cannot accept is the way some parties make fun of citizens. I am referring to those who come to claim that this measure is aimed at relieving the middle class portfolio. I'm not saying it, it's Mr. Defeyt and the CSC department. This is not true, for all, in the long term, because this reduction in indexation will affect workers' income every year, and an index carryover is never caught. In addition, a larger cheque would have been more incentive. It was the purchasing power and the climate that would have been the winners. I simply see that the government has not wanted to help the citizens, nor the climate, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u69	Madam Secretary, you didn't convince anyone last week. You've now had a chance to try again. You won't convince anyone now. The comparison with, for example, masalt in the price increases is absolutely not true. The differences are huge. It is the gas price that has increased excessively. You didn't do anything about that. Mrs van der Straeten, it is therefore extremely strong to hear you say that people must be prevented from using gas, because gas is not an ecologically suitable source of energy. Gas emits CO2. Gas is actually climate-unfriendly. And so you want to push the people off the gas. You want to ask them to use electricity, which you want to generate with gas plants. What you do not take from the public is that it heats up with gas, but that is the policy you are pursuing by stopping nuclear energy without CO2 emissions in favour of gas plants with CO2 emissions. Dat is (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u70	This concludes the oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u71	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The next item is the vote on the appointment of a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Board of Directors of Unia/Myria. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (2446/001). The document with the names of the candidates was delivered to you (2446/001). In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on Thursday, 27 January 2022, members were able to vote from Friday, 28 January 2022 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of Thursday 27 January 2022, Members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 28 January 2022 until today. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u72	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the appointment of the members of the Federal Ethics Commission. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the members of the Federal Deontological Commission. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (2448/001). The document with the names of the candidates was delivered to you (2448/001). In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 27 January 2022, members were able to vote from Friday 28 January 2022 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 27 January 2022, Members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 28 January 2022 until today. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u73	The next item is the vote on the nomination of three Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The next item is the vote on the appointment of three Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (2449/001). The document with the names of the candidates was delivered to you (2449/001). In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on Thursday, 27 January 2022, members were able to vote from Friday, 28 January 2022 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of Thursday 27 January 2022, Members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 28 January 2022 until today. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u74	A point of order was tabled by Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The House proposes to include on the agenda of the plenary meeting of 10 February the proposal for a law on various temporary emergency measures in the field of labour law to combat the shortage of labour as a result of contamination with the omicron variant No. 2456 which was adopted by the Social Affairs Committee on 9 February 2022 and whose second reading report was approved today." An order motion was tabled by Mr Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber proposes that the bill No. 2456 on various temporary emergency measures in the field of labour law to combat the shortage of labour resulting from the infections with the omikron variant, adopted on 9 February 2022 by the Committee on Social Affairs and whose report on the second reading was adopted today, to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of 10 February."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u75	Madam President, the services forwarded to all members of the House at 2.45 p.m. a point of order requesting the inclusion of a supplementary item on the agenda, which was the subject of a second reading in the Committee on Social Affairs at the beginning of the afternoon. We would therefore like to have a vote on this motion and I would ask colleagues to accept, if they so wish, a standing vote that might save us some time. It wouldn't be the first time and I'd thank them in advance. Everyone will obviously say what he wants from the point, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u76	Madam President, I repeat what I said this morning. Then you cut me off, saying there was nothing to add to the agenda. Progress was needed in the work. However, the work was interrupted in order to allow the committee to meet, which deprived us of more than one hour's work. And now the government is adding one more item to the agenda. I would therefore like to recall that this was not in accordance with the Rules of the House. It was clearly said in committee yesterday that its members would see each other again next week. It was therefore not decided either by the committee or by the Conference of Presidents to add this committee for today. My colleague also asked for the deadline set out in the Rules of Procedure for re-reading the report. I see that the majority have gone into force to adopt these flexibility measures for the omicron, which will eventually be applied retroactively while the omicron wave is clearly passing. It is true that for us, the majority not only went beyond social consultation – I would like to point out that the FGTB did not agree at all with these measures – but it also goes beyond the Rules of the House. We therefore do not agree with the addition to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u77	Madam President, this morning we had a long debate on the timing and agenda of plenary sessions. I understand, among others, from Mr De Vriendt, that it is the new political culture, which is very important, to take into account the staff who have to show up at night sessions, that we must respect the fact that they also have a family life in addition to the work they do excellently in this Chamber. Since this House is going to be late and taking into account Mr De Vriendt's call this morning, who spoke of the new political culture, I do not think it is appropriate at all to increase the agenda further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u78	I therefore propose that you vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u79	Madam President, we are asking for a nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u80	We could do this later, in order to continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you organise the vote after the next item, so as not to waste time interrupting the sitting and to be able to warn colleagues who are at a distance that a vote will take place immediately after the next item is considered. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u82	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstraeten, Hervé Rigot, Nathalie Gilson, Gilles Vanden Burre, Tim Vandenput, Bert Moyaers, Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u84	Madam President, the Committee held an interesting debate on this legislative proposal for three and a half hours. I refer to the comprehensive report that has been produced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u85	Madam President, the majority parties are not making it easy for themselves in this house and beyond, but the irony is not on their side either. Just on the day that we saw this morning that the Rules of Procedure which should regulate the proper functioning of this House can be interpreted as we see fit, the vote is ahead of us to eliminate Parliament for the next three months in the pandemic policy. Another ironic finding is... Madam President, are the ministers concerned not coming? Aren't they interested in the debate? Mr Vandenbroucke, and even the Prime Minister, were present in committee, so this debate is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u86	Minister Vandenbroucke just entered the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u87	Mr. Secretary, will your Home Secretary be joining us? This debate is not of any importance, I think, although I do not have the illusion that the Prime Minister is concerned with such petty matters. But maybe some of his soldiers after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u88	The government is present, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u89	The government is present, so that's...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u90	There are two ministers present. So you can move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u91	I don't want to burden Secretary of State Dermine with this, because he has other, very important files. But he may be able to learn lessons about how Parliament can be eliminated in the assessment of policy. So it is certainly an interesting debate for a young, promising politician. We will be able to welcome Mrs Verlinden right away. I understand we need to speed up. I do not know whether the government, Minister, can sleep on both ears in the question before us today, namely that we would identify the epidemiological emergency. We have just heard every group arguing that we need relaxation. That would, of course, be totally irresponsible in an epidemiological emergency, and you agree with that. It's either one or the other. Either there is an epidemiological emergency or relaxation is introduced. I look forward with interest to seeing how the majority groups who have just declared the realm of freedom will make the link with the fact that we are in a state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the whole of Europe is following the debate we are having. While many countries want to move to the exit at various speeds, we are discussing a situation described by the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) as follows. I quote: "Compared to the October 2021 analysis, there is an adverse evolution of the epidemiological situation, despite the booster campaign. A deterioration of most epidemiological indicators is observed, including an increase in infections and hospitalisations in all regions and provinces, putting health care at great risk." That is what the report says, which gives rise to today's debate. I end my quote: 'The evolution for the coming months is still uncertain and coordination of measures at national level remains important, at least for the next three months'. I ask the question I asked in committee again. Does coordination at national level, if necessary and I do not think this is a question of dispute, require a pandemic law? One doesn't hang on to the other. One can coordinate perfectly federally without declaring the pandemic law. Yet I feel something like a reverse Asterix and Obelix village. The whole of Gaul is freed from corona, but not quite, because the village of the intransigent minister of health continues to resist the departure of the corona forces. How did you say that in committee, Minister? "The dogs bark and the caravan passes." All of Europe is in that caravan that is passing by and you are asking us to continue barking in the desert, because there is an epidemiological emergency. Who in Europe would follow this debate without wondering when Belgium will finally say goodbye to its surrealist tradition? Perhaps at a next World Fair we can not only exhibit Guust Flater and Marsupilami to show the world how surreal Belgium is, but also a copy of the pandemic law, made available in various languages to the visitors of the Belgian pavilion. After all, today we are going to identify an epidemiological emergency which will result in Parliament being eliminated when the government takes measures in the area of CAB that will slow down basic freedoms. I'm not suggesting you intend to. You will not hear me say that, but you will open that possibility. That means that you want to have that option. I gave the RAG quote. I can also refer you to the report, which Mr De Croo rightly referred to as a good report, in which Prime Minister De Croo was quoted: he considered that our country was still at the highest level of epidemiological alert. The Prime Minister's quote had to confirm the step we are discussing here. I therefore believe that we should ask ourselves serious questions, not so much in the opinion of the Risk Assessment Group, but in the pandemic law as such. If today's pandemic law gives room, so that the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health could say in full seriousness in committee that the conditions have been met and we must confirm today that the conditions have been met, today says that not much about the situation but much about the conditions laid down in the pandemic law, conditions for declaring the epidemiological emergency. These conditions are of such a nature that one can sometimes ask oneself, if one so wishes, whether the conditions have ever not been met. The pandemic law always mentions a particular situation or the risk that that situation would occur. So it doesn't have to be, there must be a risk that it could be. In committee, for example, we heard that one could never rule out the possibility of a new, perhaps more dangerous variant appearing after Omikron. That's right. Will we then maintain the state of emergency until the day when we rule out the possibility of another variant of corona breaking out? Is that the day we're waiting for? Then I suspect that we have invented the perpetuum mobile here and that we will hear here every three months that, as there is a risk of a new virus variant breaking out, we need to re-proclaim the epidemiological emergency. Today, in the current circumstances, we have been pushed into a trap, in which the same Members of Parliament who, during the oral questions, are calling for serious, otherwise justified relaxations of the Conciliation Committee tomorrow, we hear that even from experts, first of all, declare a state of emergency. Understand who can. Of course, we have to be careful. That will be the case for a while, but being careful is one thing. Another matter is to say that Parliament must give powers to the government, i.e. give powers of attorney. There's no way to identify that with each other. You also felt that this should be for three months. You have chosen the full option: suddenly 3 months. Why not six months? Because the law limits the time limit to 3 months. You have squeezed the maximum out of the lemon, hoping that in 3 months perhaps a few more drops can be squeezed out. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, which of you can tell us what action you, as a government, whether or not in cooperation with Parliament, could not take without the activation of the pandemic law? What is not possible if the pandemic law is not activated and is of the utmost importance to public health? That is the question that needs to be answered. If you do not have an answer to that, but as the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior say, the pandemic law will, as it were, come into force automatically when the experts consider that the conditions are met, then we are faced with an automatism. This is then completely detached from the situation in the world, in our country, in cities and municipalities; that is a mechanism that was introduced by law and seems to work with all the wheels at a different pace. You are a man, and we said this at the time of the adoption of the pandemic law - Frankenstein - and have created a monster that will now lead its own life. Who is speaking today, with a clear picture of the situation, about an emergency situation? Let's be honest. Who else across Europe is using the word emergency today, except in the hemisphere here? We are a unique place throughout Europe. When you accuse me of saying that everything is over and warns me that caution is still needed, I did not deny that. My question is, where are you getting the term emergency today? If the legal text is adopted, because you cannot do otherwise, given that the conditions are met, then the law is a sample of Frankenstein. Then the law, as we have warned you, has been disconnected from the real reality in the field of health care. In addition, you extend the law by three months. You will replicate, as in the committee, that you will be able to stop the application of the law more quickly. Perhaps you could have chosen for a month, not that I am in favour of it, because I think that the extension is no longer necessary today. We are lucky, moreover, that possible extensions are limited to three months, because if there had been six months, one year or ten years in the text, you would probably have submitted a text to that effect. What strikes me in the whole discussion, and even in the note on which it is based, is that all those who are doing this and who ask us to approve the text seem to have escaped a small detail. You said, Minister of Health, that the situation today is no longer the same as it was a few months ago and you have listed to which we owe it. We owe this to mouth caps, vaccinations, boosters, one and a half meters, all kinds of closures during certain periods and the fact that the population has been good. You love a good people, because you are always willing to grant good people certain freedoms, which they buy with social virtues, as your chairman so beautifully puts it in the wonderful brave new world, which Vooruit presents to us. When we're good, we get dots. If we are not, we will be deprived of our rights. You forgot one word, and that's very strange. Fortunately, the most important reason why we can indeed go to the exit of this terrible situation today is the word omikron. It is the evolution of this virus, an evolution that was somehow predictable, although one never knows when and at what time. This evolution states that a virus comes into smaller and smaller waves, becoming more contagious and less sickening. That is, of course, a fundamental and crucial new player. Some experts say it might be a free vaccine. I am not the one who has to judge this and I will not. However, there is no doubt that the phenomenon of omikron, together with the vaccination and the booster campaign, means that today all words lose their meaning when we talk about an epidemiological emergency that makes it necessary for Parliament to give up powers. 'Cause that's what it's about. I have a question about that. What can you do if we were to follow the speakers and, in the spirit of development as we know them, did not approve this extension? I'm gonna take a big risk right now. I'm gonna read something in English. I'll leave the translation to you. It's from The China Challenge of The Economist. Belgium, moreover, has fallen in the ranking of democratic countries. That's not so good. I don't know if the pandemic law is an explanation for that, but that wouldn't be so crazy. We are talking here about the threat and the challenge to democracy. That is a serious matter. It is about how to reconcile the foundations of democracy with a pandemic and keep it right during that pandemic. The title is The authoritarian pandemic responses are undermining democracy. Autoritarian responses to the pandemic undermine democracy. "Two years after the world first heard about Covid-19, the corona virus pandemic has led to a huge extension of state power over people's lives and the erosion of individual freedoms. In the 2020 democracy index report "In sickness and in health?" We pointed to the risk that the unexpected peacetime adoption of emergency powers and the withdrawal of several liberties in response to the pandemic would persist into 2021. At the end of 2021, it was clear that this state of affairs had become normalised. The creation of authoritarianism that has accepted the pandemic raises questions about whether, in what circumcencies and for how long governments and citizens are prepared to undermine democratic rights in the cause of public health. There was a finding case for lockdowns and social disruption measures in the first year of the pandemic, given the high mortality rate and the absence of vaccines. The development of more effective treatments and a dramatic decline in serious illness and death during the most recent pandemic wave in late '21, coincidence with the introduction of more intrusive and coercive government measures. ' This isn't a magazine of antivaxers or wappies, it's The Economist. This magazine warns of something that we have paid far too little attention to here, namely undermining fundamental democratic values and, above all, getting used to them. A la guerre comme à la guerre, of course we must have the courage to take decisive action in crisis situations. However, it is noted that there is a habit. If today, in the current situation, we are going to call for an epidemiological emergency, if we think it is normal that, in the present situation, powers should be given to enable us to continue to function effectively, then we shall face a creeping degeneration of our democracy which we must not tolerate. It is therefore a fundamental question which Parliament must answer today. Can the parliament at this stage of the pandemic be a fully-fledged partner in taking the necessary measures that might still be in place or in abolishing them? You know that, in my opinion, this could be done much earlier, but it is about today. Do you sometimes ask Parliament to stop normal democratic functioning for another three months, as if it were a gamble or nothing? That's on the table today. In this respect, I would like to address the Minister of the Interior rather than the Minister of Health, whose opinion we know. He does not think it can take long, at least from a political point of view, because I am not saying that he hopes that the epidemiological situation will remain bad for a long time. You don't hear me say that. However, I sometimes have the impression that he likes being able to send the people into it. That is why I would rather address myself to the Minister of the Interior, because I have more confidence in her party in that respect than in the Minister of Health. I won't hide that. Furthermore, as Minister of the Interior, I think you may also have a slightly broader perspective than the Minister of Health. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you very clearly why we should consider Parliament as a inferior participant in the process for the next three months. If you claim that, in these circumstances, where the experts' advice shows that the conditions are met, we cannot but declare the epidemiological emergency, will you admit that the present design is a trap? According to this reasoning, which is purely technical, Parliament will have no choice but to press the green button, independently of the reality that is emerging. You would have understood that my group, even though it may be in the field of illegality, will vote against the extension of the epidemiological emergency. It will do so first of all because of the concern rightly expressed in The Economist and secondly because of the very silly fact that it is not necessary. It is not necessary, it is an unnecessary limitation of our democratic system. Members of the majority, if one of the authors of the previous questions says one word of the questions, you will be able to refuse to extend the epidemiological emergency, not by three months, not by two months, not by one month, but by zero days. It must end with the mood here in the hemisphere. Do your job as a representative of the people, as the electorate expects you to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u92	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot get the impression that it was with some enthusiasm that the Vivaldi government has extended this epidemic and expects the Members of Parliament to vote for it, as usual in a participation, that they will ratify and approve it within fourteen days. On 1 February, we held a debate in committee on the extension of the so-called emergency situation. The majority of committee members have already approved it, as is customary in this participation. However, they have dared to make the light-critical comments, but there is indeed a very comprehensive report of the Committee's discussions. It is very clear that both Prime Minister De Croo and Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Verlinden have convinced the majority members that there is a state of emergency today. And for all those who dared doubt the usefulness of the CST: according to Vivaldi, the CST is still much needed today. At least that was the case on 1 February. Prime Minister De Croo said earlier that the corona pass would not be applied for a day longer than necessary. But in his explanation of 1 February, he said it was still necessary. He repeated it again today: the pass would not last longer than necessary. I find it very strange that on 1 February, when all these parties vote for the emergency situation, a Prime Minister, a Deputy Prime Minister and another Minister come to convince the members of the committee how this state of emergency is still in place, and two days later those same Vivaldi parties started an incredibly relaxed bid, in the run-up to tomorrow's Consultation Committee. Less than two days later, with the prospect of the Consultative Committee, in which everyone would like to be congratulated on every possible relaxation, Vice Prime Minister Gilkinet argued in all newspapers for far-reaching relaxation and, yes, for the abolition of the same CST, which, according to all his Vivaldic colleagues, was still so much needed two days before. The Consultative Committee will reconvene tomorrow. This afternoon, I heard all the oral questions on facilitations, including those of the majority. As usual, we have already been able to hear the advice of Mr Pedro Facon to the Consultative Committee by means of the press. The newspaper that was able to look at the opinion put it in an article yesterday as follows: "The projections in the Facon note also teach us that this corona situation will continue to improve in the coming months." But what's the Vivaldi coalition doing today? The emergency situation shall be extended for a further period of three months. An extension of one week or two weeks would also have been possible, as there is no obligation to remove the maximum allowed period under the pandemic law. However, the emergency situation will be extended by three months. Before Mr Vandenbroucke puts words in my mouth, as if we are against all measures or want to release all brakes, mostly arguments put forward by Mr Vandenbroucke, I would like to say that there is, of course, a need for caution. However, caution is something other than the extension of an exceptional legal procedure. There is, of course, a need for vigilance, but that is something quite different from the extension of an emergency. There is no objective reason for prolonging the emergency situation today. In fact, the Prime Minister pointed out some serious concerns this afternoon about the adoption of strict measures. The first reason, not mentioned by the Prime Minister, is the protection of our weak, old and vulnerable. In the meantime, this protection has taken place, because although the booster shot came a little late, all the vulnerable and older people have now been given the opportunity to get boostered. The second concern, cited by the Prime Minister this afternoon, is to ensure that our care system continues to function. A situation such as at the start of the corona crisis, of which everyone remembers the terrible images of beds in the hospital corridors in Italy, we had to avoid. Our care system has this under control today. The omicron variant makes much less sick, as the previous speaker said. I referred in detail to a Sciensano report which was sent to the RBs during the discussion in committee. It makes a distinction between the delta variant and the omikron variant, contrary to the explanations given by the ministers in committee. I have not received an answer to the question I have repeatedly asked in committee. On page 13 of the Sciensano report, there are only 107 patients with omikron in the hospital. How many of these are in intensive care? Those are the figures on which you must base yourself. Not on the infections, but, as Prime Minister De Croo said this afternoon, on the hospitalizations and the intensive care. I did not receive an answer to that question. I hope you will be able to clarify that today. How many are there today because of the omikron variant on intensive care? Much of it is still there because of the worse delta variant. I hope I get an answer today. Otherwise, that's a telling silence. When discussing the pandemic law in committee, I said that the definition of an epidemic emergency in my view, and in the eyes of many experts we heard at the time, is far too broad. I said at that time that the very broad definition has the possibility of applying it to a heavy flu season. The Minister has always denied that this is possible. Because they continue to deny that, I have Googled for a moment to the last severe flu epidemic before corona. I didn't have to go far, because from 2018, there are a lot of newspaper articles that say that scheduled recordings had to be postponed because of the heavy flu season. "The flu epidemic is approaching its peak, which threatens to lead to overcrowding in hospitals every year." "The overcrowding in hospitals is an annual phenomenon during this period." "Hospitals even force some patients to go to other clinics." These are the titles of newspaper articles of 2018. I will spare you Marc Van Ranst's quotes on that. I'll give you another quote from him later. Why can't that data be applied to the definition of emergency? I read out the definition of epidemic emergency, as stated in the pandemic law: "Every event that causes or can cause a serious threat due to the presence of an infectious agent in humans." Then there are the four conditions: "A large number of people in Belgium are affected, or may affect, and seriously affect, or may affect, health." The first condition is already met in the event of a severe flu epidemic, I think. No one can argue with that. The second condition: "Leads or may lead to one or more of the following consequences in Belgium: a serious overload of certain health professionals and facilities." I do not have to read out the other consequences, because we are already there with the first possible result. The third condition: "This requires coordination and management of competent actors at national level to eliminate the threat or to mitigate the consequences of events." If patients need to be referred, it is clear that coordination of the relevant actors at national level is needed. The third condition is therefore also met. In the fourth condition, you put the word "if necessary." As Van Dale shows, this means "if necessary, if necessary." That is not a necessary condition. At the time, you laughed when I said that definition could be applied to a common flu. But today, by prolonging the emergency situation, you are already applying the definition in practice. Some countries are in a similar situation to Belgium, for example Spain. That country's gonna treat corona like a flu from now on. The Omikron variant has ensured that we now approach the situation of a common flu. Those are not my words, but Marc Van Ranst's, which inspires the government. So today, in a situation approaching a common flu, if we prolong this epidemic situation, we are doing exactly what I warned when discussing the pandemic law. I honestly didn't think I'd be right so soon. We need to be careful, that's right, but the situation today is not an epidemic. This afternoon, during Question Time, the Prime Minister said that we are not in an endemic situation, we are still in an epidemic situation. Yes, but an epidemic situation is therefore not an epidemic emergency. That was precisely our criticism of that definition when discussing the pandemic law, which could apply to it. Last week, I mentioned a series of countries in the committee meeting which partially or even completely resolve their measures. In the meantime, that list has actually only gotten longer. The United Kingdom and Ireland have implemented measures. The day before yesterday we were told that the procedures for travelling to the United Kingdom will also be relaxed as of tomorrow. Denmark has virtually discharged all the measures. Finland will lift all measures this month. In the meantime, Sweden is abolishing all measures. That country wasn't there yet, in committee meetings. Sweden never chose to lock down, never to close down schools. I am convinced that Sweden has followed the real science and not the politicised version of it. New York stops the obligation of mouth mask and coronapas. Yesterday, the Secretary of State for the French Government, Gabriel Attal, announced that France, perhaps just before the French presidential elections, would like to see the end of the vaccination pass, at the end of March, beginning of April. And what does Belgium do? Belgium wants to extend the emergency situation for the same virus, for the same Omikron variant. While, I repeat, there is no objective reason for this, either as regards the vulnerable or as regards care. Colleagues, with the extension of the emergency, the use of the corona pass will also continue. The last word has not yet been said about the CST. It's counterproductive. It's polarizing. That's not just what we're saying. There are virologists, such as Emmanuel André, who said earlier that the CST has led to more infections because of that false sense of safety. Even the GEMS, which makes you so eager to be advised and which I sometimes had the impression that the abbreviation was only for Geert, Erika, Marc and Steven, while science is just a little more extensive than that, shows a moving insight into the CST in its opinions. While they were still positive about it in the initial opinions, they now come back to that. I quote from a GEMS opinion: "Unfortunately, their use (the CST) was often interpreted by organizers and participants as proof of 100% safety. It was accompanied by too much confidence in vaccination and the abandonment of all other measures. This has led to a social false sense of security and the subsequent numerous infections after events, meetings and group activities. In addition, the implementation of the CST had no significant effect on the vaccination rate." That was a quote from the GEMS recommendation. May I also remind you of another opinion, namely the opinion of the Data Protection Authority? It's a little older. It dates from July 2021. It states the following with regard to the CST. I'm quoting again. "In order to allow the interference in fundamental rights caused by the introduction of the Covid Safe Ticket, the authors must demonstrate, with factual, concrete elements, that, firstly, the Covid Safe Ticket actually achieves that objective, secondly, that there are no less significant means to achieve it and, thirdly, that the benefits of the scheme outweigh the disadvantages and risks, including the risk of habitation, social standardisation of actions that infringe fundamental rights and the risk of a shift towards controlled society, which the scheme entails." Colleagues, how can the introduction of a coronabarometer with the anchoring of the CST meet those three criteria, knowing that so far, according to Sciensano, 107 people have been hospitalized with omikron? The answer is very simple. I don't. I don't understand what you're waiting to abolish that CST. In any case, we do not need an evaluation. By the way, most scientists have already made that evaluation. I also wonder how long that coronabarometer will last. Minister Vandenbroucke and Prime Minister Jambon have already said that the CST may last until the summer, but I fear it will be a bit like the sleeping CST. They will wake that up again if they consider it necessary. I wonder who would like to have the rest of his or her life determined by a barometer that allows us two or three months a year normal life as we used to. That is not the society we advocate. The sooner we get rid of a QR society, the better. If other countries can do that, then I do not see why Belgium could not do that. I said it earlier this afternoon, but I would like to repeat it again. Abolishing a coronapas by summer is like taking measures against a higher energy bill from 1 April after a very cold winter. That's hopelessly too late. What I do not understand is that where other countries are celebrating, we are going to be intertwined. If you don't get a booster shot, you lose your coronapas. The corona pass will also be less valid for a long time. The number of days is limited. Unvaccinated young people are discriminated against against all promises. I am convinced that in the situation we are in today it is no longer the virus that causes all this economic, social, mental and other damage, but this government with a whole series of measures. I know in advance what Mr Vandenbroucke's answer will be. He says that every time. He said it on committee. He said that again this afternoon, namely that the Flemish interest is against all measures. Because we dare to be critical of the CST, we are against all measures. That is very short and, of course, does not add up. For good measures, we are. We are in favour of vaccinations, for encouraging telework, for useful measures. However, we do not participate in a CST that is counterproductive, which in this society only makes a difference. If countries such as Spain, Ireland, Finland, Denmark, Sweden and so on can abolish or even completely abolish all these corona measures, you can certainly do so perfectly without any kind of emergency that co-ordinates further corona approach, with democratic decision-making without an emergency and without a pandemic law. The only reason I see is that it's just extremely convenient for your government to be able to continue to govern in this way. You may think that we are still too high on The Economist's democracy index, and it is your ambition to be totally behind on this very long European list by next year, where all we have to do now is leave Cyprus and Turkey behind us. The longer that emergency takes for Vivaldi, the better you'll find it. It certainly diverts attention from all the other issues on which this government does not agree. I will make the same appeal as I made in committee. Take Denmark as an example, including on emigration, but that is another discussion. Instead of choosing emergency situations, repression, doom messages and minimising democracy and parliamentary input, as you do, you should focus on democratic decision-making, on trust between government and citizens, on public confidence in the sense of responsibility of the citizens. That is the way Denmark is going, that is the way we should be going. That pandemic law was a thing. We did not wish to apply it the first time. Today, the situation has changed so much that it is no longer justified to apply it next time, let alone to apply it next time. To prolong the emergency, there is no objective reason. You should not therefore count on the support of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course all of us would like the coronavirus pandemic to be behind us, so that we can free the population from the daily constraints imposed on it. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case, and it must be noted that the conditions justifying the continuation of the epidemic emergency are indeed in place. I will not be long, but in order to properly frame the debate, I think it is not pointless to recall what are the four cumulative conditions that must be met. Ultimately, that is what we need to evaluate. It has to be, I sum up: - a health emergency caused by a contagious disease that affects or is likely to affect a large number of people and greatly affect their health; - a situation which has a real or potential impact on the health care system; - a situation which requires coordination of crisis management at national level; - a situation which must be recognised by the World Health Organisation as a public health emergency of international concern and/or recognised under different European provisions. In this regard, the conclusion of OCOL's opinion is very clear: it recommends maintaining the state of epidemic emergency. In reaching these conclusions, it took into account: - epidemiological developments; - data currently available on the Omicron variant; - the state of defence lines and health facilities; - the advance of the vaccination campaign with the booster dose; - prospective modelling; - in the opinion of the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) that the four epidemic emergency criteria are still met and that it recommends maintaining national coordination of measures for at least the next three months. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u94	Madam President, Minister and Ministers, I am trying to respond to what I have heard from colleagues. On the one hand, I hear that Parliament is being put out of operation. I'll ask the question how. We would have given parliamentary powers away, I quote from what I have just heard. We have not given up any powers. In the committee, I heard special powers following the ratification of the KB in October that we gave powers of attorney. We have given no power, no special power. Giving a special power of attorney, giving a power of attorney, putting us out of operation, that is to give our legislative powers to the executive. Tell me where we would have done that. Tell me that!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u95	Mr Verherstraeten, you also held the debate on this in committee. What's the pandemic bill about, colleague? Is there no delegation of powers? If not, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u96	Mr De Roover, thank you for the question, but that is not an answer to the question I have implicitly asked you: where is there delegation of powers? What powers would we have delegated to the government? Tell us. You've been saying that a few times in a row. I ask you very specifically what power Parliament gave to the government, which consisted of Parliament's delegation to the government, firstly, when the pandemic law was adopted and secondly, when the emergency situation was confirmed in October and now when it was maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u97	Again, what is the legal text about? There is no transfer of powers, there is no delegation, there is nothing in it. So what's the legal text about? The draft provides that the government may, in certain circumstances, take action on a case-by-case basis. If you say that she can do so without the pandemic law, it has no substance. If you say that we cannot do so without the pandemic law, then there is a delegation of powers. Which one is it? Does the legal text have a content or not? Can the government, by establishing the epidemiological emergency at KB, take measures that it would not otherwise be able to take? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u98	Your answer is significant, because you are unable to answer my question as to what is being delegated, so I am implicitly suggesting that you actually acknowledge that there is no delegation. However, I will answer your question, unlike you, to mine. You ask what is the meaning of the legal text. You yourself argued months ago that there would be a pandemic law. We did not agree on its content. Essentially, we did not agree on the ratification of the measures implementing the law. That was the main point of discussion, because the legal basis, before the pandemic law was passed in the Chamber, was challenged, as allowed under the rule of law, before several courts. Moreover, the caselaw largely confirmed that there was sufficient legal basis; only in some judgments was there in dubio. So we wanted to take more security into account and introduce a certain legal basis, and that is the meaning of the pandemic law. At the time, you apparently forgot to call for more legal certainty. We were also in favour of this, hence the pandemic law, which does not just apply, only in emergency situations. We have also described these emergencies very specifically in the law and the conditions must also be met cumulatively. Invoking the law for the flu, for example, would be totally incorrect on the legal level, as the conditions would certainly not be met cumulatively. The conditions do apply to the corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u99	Mr Verherstraeten, I welcome your answer, because you admit that the pandemic law delegates powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u100	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u101	You say that, Mr Verherstraeten. You may try to realize bending as much as you like. Firstly, yes, we have indeed disputed that there was a good basis for working with ministerial decisions during that long period. You yourself say that in a large part of cases where constitutionality was never reviewed, that way of working was judged legally correct. This means that in a number of cases it is not. That means that we were in at least legal uncertainty. You have also recognised this by submitting a pandemic law. This means that the pandemic law creates room for the executive, which space it does not have without the pandemic law. It's called a delegation of powers. If there isn't, stop with the law. When we asked for a sound basis, we put forward a proposal which included Parliament fully in the decision-making process. That's the big difference with the pandemic bill, which is ahead. You can give the animal the same name, but it is fundamentally another animal. You did not want to deal with our proposal, it was not approved, but you remained in the drawer. The pandemic law was approved by the Chamber. So you confirm that this was necessary so that the government can take measures by royal decision that it cannot take without the pandemic law. We call that a delegation of powers. It may be said that you used a socratic technique. I did not answer your question, you did so yourself, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u102	Mr De Roover, I suggest you read a few manuals of Public Law before you play games. A delegation of powers is a transfer of powers. Taking administrative measures and within which framework a government can and may take administrative measures is completely different. A little serious would be appropriate. Only a slightly more secure legal basis has been provided and a strict framework has been created within which only administrative measures and administrative measures are possible under the exclusive competence of the executive authority. The aim is not to deprive freedoms, but to prevent and mitigate the effects of the epidemic. We must not do what we want to do or want to do or what some people want to do. The measures are only possible if they are necessary and targeted, and one can only do what is explicitly enshrined in the law, in particular in Article 5. I have just heard the criticism that there is a contradiction between pleas for relaxation on the one hand and the ratification of an emergency on the other. Of course, if we prolong the ratification of the emergency and thus maintain it, there must be legal conditions for this. The law also prescribes this, and the government has explicitly underlined this in committee. That emergency will take place as soon as the experts advise it. The experts have concluded and have advised that the emergency situation is continuing. In its opinion on the pandemic law, the Council of State also made it very explicit that, if these conditions are in place, the emergency situation must be confirmed. Fortunately, the figures are falling, but we must not minimize the situation we are in: more than 400 people on intensive care, more than 300 hospital admissions, some 40 deaths a day, almost 30,000 infections and the breakdown of staff in the care sector due to the infections. The situation is no longer as dramatic as it was in the full peak of delta, but they don't need to minimize either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u103	The question is not whether we minimize, the question is whether we dramatize. We are not talking about introducing measures or caution, we are talking about an epidemiological emergency. I don't know who wants to minimize here, it's about dramatizing. Mr President, you referred to the opinions of the experts of 14 January, with an update on 19 January. It's February 10th now. That's a world of difference. I read in the RAG's report: "Compared to the October 2021 analysis, there is an adverse evolution of the epidemiological situation." I quote Prime Minister De Croo on 10 February 2022: "The indicators are evolving in the right direction'. In short, do you not think that there has been a fundamental change since the reports on which we are based? Reports from a month ago said that there was an adverse evolution of the epidemiological emergency. I have no further opinion on this, but that is what was said a month ago. Today, on 10 February, the Prime Minister says that indicators are evolving in the right direction. Who am I to question his words? This is fundamentally different from what is stated in the RAG's report. Do you agree with me that it would be wiser to base our assessment of the introduction of an emergency on the current situation rather than on the situation of 19 January?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u104	Mr De Roover, we are within a legal framework in which a government, on the basis of an opinion from that time, will issue a royal decree on 28 January, which we should ratify within 15 days. Otherwise, it will cease to exist. That's the legal framework. If you say that we should follow up - you do not say that, but if I could translate it that way - then I agree. We have to follow that, and we will. I do not want to dramatize today's figures, but I do not want to minimize them either. They remain so serious that not only the coordination but also the management, being the leadership, is and should be in federal hands. That is not the federal government's view alone, that is also the position of regional governments. That was even the question of the regional governments. That is why we have agreed and concluded a cooperation agreement with regard to the CST. That is why we approved that cooperation agreement. Not you, not here. N-VA did not approve it here, but the N-VA did so in the Flemish Parliament. If there is a great deal of contradiction, then I note that it is mainly within the N-VA at federal and Flemish level as regards the corona policy and the commentary of the corona measures. The measures that we have taken and which are adopted in implementation of the pandemic law and in this case in the current emergency situation are measures taken together, after consultation and agreement with the regional governments, of which you are also a member. I shall return to what you have just said in relation to the three months. That is the maximum period decided on on the basis of the opinion at the time. We can also ratify royal decrees issued by the government in an amended pandemic law every 14 days, but that would not be workable. I am more in favour of monitoring and adapting or withdrawing once the situation is such that the legal criteria are no longer available to maintain an emergency situation. Legitimate can do that. This can be done on the initiative of the government and on the initiative of Parliament. Both are possible. From 28 January to 28 April is a period of three months. If the situation is so favourable at the end of March that there is no emergency, then there is no reason to maintain the pandemic law and the emergency. I am in favour of that. Then there must be a legal initiative to end this, either from the government or from Parliament. I'm in favour of not a day too long. That's not necessary. However, this will probably also mean the end of the federal phase. The regional and local authorities will then be able to take the initiatives they still feel they need to take, if that is still necessary at the time. What matters to me is that even with this pandemic law and this emergency situation, it is perfectly possible to relax. That is also why the pandemic law explicitly provides that the government can only take administrative measures that are necessary and targeted. If it is no longer necessary, the government no longer takes it. A few minutes ago, people were talking about habitation. Unfortunately, we have been in this health crisis for two years. Fortunately, I see a constant in this Parliament from the opposition but also from the majority. As soon as the figures start to fall, we, in the places where we come as politicians, are being held up by people and to say that certain measures need to be phased out. These questions are automatically received here too, not only from the opposition but also from the majority. Today's Question Time was a good example of that. There is no habit, thank goodness! No longer than necessary and only what is absolutely necessary, we do not do what is not necessary. That is what this legal framework allows. That is why we will continue to evaluate and monitor it. This House will do its job, through oral questions and interviews and, where appropriate, through legislative initiatives to withdraw an emergency situation when the legal conditions for it are no longer available. It is in that sense that the ratification of the Royal Decree still seems appropriate to me, and the follow-up of it seems absolutely appropriate to me. As soon as it is no longer necessary, we will take the necessary measures. In the meantime, within the current legal framework, we will be relaxing where possible, in order to ensure that people do not impose as much measures as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u105	Madam President, I am replacing my colleague, Nabil Boukili, who could not be here tonight. I have not been a member of this Parliament for a very long time. I am astonished enough by the recent demonstration that everything would be legally normal, given the current situation. I cannot compete with Mr Verherstraeten because I do not have the legal knowledge that is his. But I have recently attended the debates on the obligation to vaccinate in the Committee on Health. On this occasion, we also talked about the CST, about all the measures that reach our freedoms. Mr Verherstraeten, I don't know if you ever read the papers. The restriction of our freedoms imposed on us today is not normal. This is a very serious breach, for example, of our freedom of movement. The lightness with which you speak of the provisions under examination therefore gives rise to my astonishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u106	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u107	In any case, you have tried to demonstrate that the way in which the crisis is managed or the way in which the keys are given to the government is entirely logical. I can't agree with this demonstration. From the beginning, we opposed the introduction of this pandemic law, this crisis management which is to give all the keys to the government which can decide to close the restaurants overnight, to close the cafes, to close the places of cultivation, as was the case, which was also cancelled by the Council of State. Today, given the epidemiological situation, there are questions about the need for such measures. And, after two years, it would seem that the urgency needs to give another form of special powers to the government! Since then, could we not have organized otherwise than by imposing restrictions on freedoms? I am thinking in particular of freedom of movement. Other measures could have been put in place not only in health but also in legal terms. In particular, this would have enabled Parliament to function more normally and to take certain measures. I still don't understand it. Today, you also do not provide a demonstration of it. Of course, in the event of a new virus, an emergency will have to be decreed. Now, we know that and know how to take a lot of measures that do not reach freedom, but these are measures that are not being taken. Secondly, many European countries are firmly on the path of easing. Denmark has lifted all the restrictions, Iceland is planning to do so on 14 March, Catalonia is removing the health pass, Sweden is removing all the measures, Switzerland could do so on 17 February, the United Kingdom has done so, France, the Netherlands – in short, everyone is relaxing. Here, there's nothing to say! Confirming the state of epidemic emergency by this pandemic law for three months goes against the current of this movement that continues everywhere. Instead of allowing democracy to express itself, we are going back to this state of emergency that will be confirmed. In addition, you extend this pandemic law by up to three months, instead of one or two. You reply that, if possible, you will be able to stop it before the deadline. This means that the state of emergency, which justifies the restriction of freedoms, becomes the normal state. We may be given back our fundamental rights if the situation improves. It should still be the opposite! Let us be honest and reasonable! You're beginning to accept this state of emergency. It looks like habituation. Today, you want to prolong the pandemic law and you think it's the right thing to do to fight coronavirus. However, the government has so far failed to demonstrate that this approach, namely to operate this pandemic law, was the right response. Systemically, you have decided in your corner, without taking into account the alternatives that have been proposed. Finally, this management of the crisis with the pandemic law has yielded little results since we are in the fifth wave. We don't want that! For us, there needs to be a real democratic debate with Parliament on all the measures. Parliament meets weekly. Why can't these measures be decided in Parliament? You also put forward the argument that it was necessary to make quick decisions. Frankly, there have been a lot of quarrels, delays in decisions, and not a quick, coordinated or effective approach. Drawings on the left and on the right are continually shown. In fact, I think this is an easy solution for the government. It's easy. We have the pandemic law. We take the measure we want when we want, without having to go through a vote in Parliament. This has already had disastrous consequences; as proof, I want the closure of culture at the end of December and the annulment of this decision by the Council of State. In our view, we could, we can and we must work on alternatives that exist. These choices, which we should have made from the beginning, were courageous choices. With the PTB, we were there, ready to do them. From the very beginning, we said we had to look for contacts in the field. On 10 March 2020, we introduced an amendment to create teams to go to the field before the first confinement. We proposed hiring more than a thousand people to allow an approach to support people with covid. The speakers could have asked the question: "Madam, how do you do your shopping? Can anyone come and help you?" Instead, what did our government do? Saying, via a call from the call center: "Don't shop, ma'am, otherwise you risk a fine!" Is this managing a pandemic? I'm sorry, no. There were other things to do! We have kept repeating it. In our view, we need an approach on the ground, a preventive approach, and, of course, in the longer term, we need to invest in this first-line medicine. It is not for nothing that general practitioners are unhappy today. There is a need for human contact monitoring, not to mention a free and much more accessible testing system, as is the case in other countries. In Belgium, it remains complicated to have a test. Today, if you don't have symptoms, you don't have a test. You have to pay 55 euros for a PCR test. For self-tests, it's like, "Get out of the way!" Self-tests are still not free, whereas in other countries they are free. Finally, patents on vaccines must be lifted to allow the poorest countries to immunize their populations. Of course, this decision cannot be taken here, but our Parliament can decide to support the countries of the South. It is only when we have immunized the whole world sufficiently that we can put an end to this pandemic. You will understand that with the PTB, we will not support the extension of the pandemic emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u108	Minister, Ministers, this bill is intended to confirm the continuation of the epidemic emergency in accordance with the framework provided for in the Pandemic Act of August 14, 2021, otherwise the Royal Order of January 27 will cease to have effect from Friday. We oppose the prolongation of the epidemic emergency for the same reasons that led us to oppose the adoption of the pandemic law. Firstly, we know that Parliament is able to adopt measures very quickly when there is a real urgency. It is therefore not necessary to act quickly to confiscate Parliament's prerogatives in terms of restrictions on fundamental freedoms for the benefit of government. We have also tabled a bill that allows the government to make ministerial orders on the basis of the laws on civil security and protection the time strictly necessary for the adoption of the rules after a democratic debate. Also, the effect of ministerial orders is limited to five days renewable once maximum for the same duration. Secondly, we are deeply convinced of the added value of an argumented public debate between representatives of the Nation when it comes to restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens due to serious circumstances. Everyone in Parliament is obliged to publicly express their objections and to support them, and the confiscation of this debate by members of the government negotiating in relative secrecy cannot lead to the same quality decisions as a public debate. The public nature and transparency of the parliamentary debate are in fact fundamental characteristics that we do not wish to remove. The experience of the Codeco's decisions concerning the closure of culture in December reinforced our conviction. Parliament would never have taken such absurd decisions. I want to point out that when the debate became public, almost no Codeco member dared to take on these decisions. Once the decision was made, all those who participated in the decision subsequently stated that they were firmly opposed to it. It's only possible because no one knows who said what and who opposes what. If we had had this debate in Parliament, we would not have had this overturn and we would also have known the arguments of each party, and that would have allowed us to have democratic control over the decisions taken. Finally, we have denounced the excessively vague nature of the criteria for declaring or maintaining the epidemic emergency. Current circumstances confirm that the outbreak emergency situation can be declared or maintained almost in all circumstances, as the situations mentioned should not have consequences but only be likely to have consequences. The Pandemic Law thus reduces the democratic nature of the decisions taken since the epidemic emergency situation is broadly defined in it, in particular as any event which causes or is likely to cause a serious threat, which affects or is likely to affect a large number of people in Belgium, which leads or is likely to lead to one or more of the consequences such as a serious overload of certain health care professionals and health services. Pandemic law, by the criteria it sets, thus allows for the confiscation of parliamentary debate, even when the situation is not justified or is no longer justified since – admit it – the emergency is no longer the same as three months ago or only at the beginning of the health crisis in our country in March 2020. In other words, the three months of Pandemic Law implementation demonstrated how justified our opposition to Pandemic Law was. This decline in democracy is not even reflected in the effectiveness of public action. Unlike the majority parties that supported this pandemic law, we refuse to oppose democracy and effective public action because we believe that democratic and public debate is a guarantee of popular acceptance and therefore of efficiency. The episode of the closure of culture showed this: an in camera deliberation leads to a decision so absurd that none of the people who took it wanted to assume it. As an opposition party, one might be pleased that this government is not in a position to function properly. But we do not, given that we are afraid of the consequences of this fiasco in relation to the credit of the public word and because we are attached to the role of every power in our democracy. All of this makes our democracies more transparent and undermines the citizens' support for the decision-making process. By prolonging the epidemic emergency situation and the special powers that it gives you, you condemn yourself to relive this type of episode that dramatically decredifies public speech and thus public action. We can't solve this. Add that, in addition to confiscating Parliament's powers, the government easingly bypasses the counter-powers, in particular by circumventing, on the pretext of urgency, the obligation to consult the legislative section of the Council of State. This is also a step backwards in the rule of law. We have tabled a proposal in this regard. Minister, you announced this summer that you would propose something in this area. We are still waiting for this important part of control which is operated by the Council of State. As you will have understood, Madam and honourable Ministers, we cannot support this extension because, for us, it undermines the effectiveness of public action in the fight against the pandemic, because it does not give rise to support, because public speech is constantly being called into question and because we want a real democratic debate to take action on our rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u109	Madam President, my colleague François De Smet had registered, but I will replace him to discuss this text. Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your presence in this important debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by reminding you, if necessary, that my party had also strongly opposed the Pandemia Act. It is therefore logical that we will not support this bill to extend the state of epidemic emergency and, therefore, the full powers given to the government to adopt measures - it should be recalled - that restrict our fundamental freedoms. First of all, I wonder why the Vivaldi parties are prolonging this state of emergency in the light of the current epidemiological situation, as mentioned at the opening of this plenary session. Indeed, all the member parties of the government agree to relax the health measures and this is rare enough to be stressed. All the indicators allow us to switch to orange, if we follow the criteria of the recent barometer, namely a marked decrease in contamination and hospitalizations, as well as a decrease in the number of people in intensive care - which still constitute the peak of a wave - below the critical threshold of 500. The rate of reproduction of the virus is now below 1. This means, therefore, that its contagiousness rate tends to slow down. As I have told you, we are not far from passing in orange code, and even in yellow code, if we follow the mathematical projections. We could hope for this latest development by mid-March. Commissioner Corona's last report goes in the same direction. Furthermore, on the eve of a Codeco which we hope will decide to relax health measures, it is nevertheless quite paradoxical - and I hope you will agree, ladies and gentlemen - that this House will vote on a text to extend the health emergency for a maximum of three months, not one or two months! We are therefore putting our Parliament under bells for another three months, until May, when we all hope to be in yellow code. It is equally paradoxical that this extension comes at a time when almost all the experts heard in the Committee on Health in the course of our discussions on compulsory vaccination have stressed that the timing of this measure, be it compulsory vaccination or vaccination pass, in any case a measure that would target the entire population, is completely out of date with regard to the great immunity acquired by the population, whether it be vaccination or covid contamination, in particular the Omicron variant. It was these hearings that prompted your government to postpone the debate on the three-month compulsory vaccination of health-care workers and even its implementation, since the reason used was "that the evolution of the epidemiological situation no longer justifies this implementation". Despite all this, you are now justifying the continuation of the epidemic emergency on the basis of two opinions. This is, on the one hand, the opinion of Commissioner Corona dated January 14, even though it was updated five days later, on January 19, just over three weeks ago, and, on the other hand, the opinion given by you, Minister of Health, on January 21. In your view, these opinions would demonstrate that the criteria for the definition of an outbreak emergency are currently being fully met. Forgive me, but, as has been said, this justification suffers from two major pitfalls. First, the data on which these opinions are based are completely outdated. You will not disagree that the health situation in mid-January is not the same in mid-February. Moreover, health measures will not be the same. I said earlier that the peak of the fifth wave would be behind us, with a sharp drop in contamination, as well as new admissions to our hospitals. Secondly, we see very quickly the drifts that can be generated by the too broad definition of the epidemic emergency situation contained in this Pandemia Act, which the opposition democratic parties had insisted on at length. The abuse of this pandemic law, which, I would like to remind you, is a genuine submission by our Parliament to the government in times of crisis, has also been strongly criticized by many experts who have been interviewed in the discussions on the vaccination obligation. You are telling us today that we do not know what tomorrow will be done and that we must be careful. This in no way allows you to normalize in this way a state of epidemic emergency that should be the exception. This does not allow you to confiscate Parliament in this way. Parliament could and can still act quickly, but there must be political will to do so, which has not, as we know, been the case. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have rejected the legislative proposals which set the stage for genuine public democratic control and transparency of health measures by Parliament, and not a posteriori frontal control, as is unfortunately the case today. Let's be clear, my DeFI party does not dispute the legitimacy of restrictions on fundamental freedoms in an exceptional context of pandemics, provided they are aimed at a specific objective, temporary and proportional. What we are contesting here is the abuse of this Pandemia law, but also and above all the organized confiscation of Parliament's powers which it generates. So you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, the minister, the minister, we will obviously not support the extension of this state of health emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u110	I will not repeat what was said in the debate. Mr Verherstraeten has made an excellent summary of the vision of the process under way here. So I agree with him that this is not about powers of attorney. At the end of the previous legislature, powers of attorney were granted, and that was probably inevitable at the time, so I do not want to criticise that either. I'd also like to correct something. Two speakers claimed that in the committee debate I would not have referred to the fact that omikron is less ill, as far as we can tell. For the record, I did say that, I quoted it literally from the advice of the coronac Commissioner. We must not therefore say here that I would not have said certain things.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u111	I listened very carefully today to new things being said. But I didn't hear it. Everything that has been said, we have heard many times, both in the preparation of the pandemic law and in the proclamation of the first epidemic. But also in committee meetings and now again. I think it is completely inappropriate to say that there is enthusiasm to prolong the emergency. Like everyone else, we want the pandemic to be over. We are prolonging the proclamation of the epidemiological situation, because it is necessary. It has been said that this is unnecessary and unnecessary. Of course, one can always try to deny the sunlight. But if the conditions are met, the law must be applied. I also want to give you a nuance. There was an automatism here. But I never said that. I did say, however, that the law must be used if the conditions are to be met, as required by the Council of State. However, I have never heard in the debates that we do not meet the conditions. They say they're too spacious, but we'll meet them. In committee, moreover, I have already said that the experts and the Council of State have confirmed that these conditions are effective. There is therefore no too wide application. Again, by creating the doom image as if we wanted to use the pandemic law for the least flu, you refer to newspaper articles of 2018 and I do not know to what extent that is relevant - you do nothing but sow fear. You are making an unrealistic presentation of the facts and putting on the table a hypothetical debate, which we are not having at the moment, in order to deviate from the essence, and that is an answer to the question of whether we are meeting the conditions today If so, then we must apply a law that is democratically approved in Parliament. That is exactly what we are doing today, and that is what we must limit ourselves to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u112	Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. Firstly, to clarify, do you confirm that, if the conditions are met, Parliament can only agree to the extension of the pandemic emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u113	I'm not saying that. That's what the Council of State says. It has said that if the forwards are met, we have no legal basis other than the law to take action by administrative police. That is exactly what the Van State Council is saying and exactly what we are doing today. You can all say that we do not meet the conditions because there is no pressure on the health system. I also heard earlier that it is not a problem, that it is not a problem that 50 people die a day, that at the time of our decision there are 400 beds in intensive care occupied, but you do not question that. The Council of State says that if these conditions are met, the law must be invoked to take action by administrative police, and that is what we need to do today. That is the subject of the debate that we have to have today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u114	Firstly, Madam Minister, it may be inattentive, but I find the claim that someone here would have said that it is not a bad thing that 50 people die a day a day a little disgusting. Did you really say that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u115	I didn't put those words in your mouth, you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u116	Did you say that? Who said that here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u117	You said it's similar to a flu, right? Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u118	Has anyone said that it's okay that there are 50 dead?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u119	You compared it to a flu and said it wasn't a big deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u120	That was not me, but Mr Pas, and that is not relevant. You do not answer my question: has anyone said that it is okay that there are 50 dead? It is very serious if you say that in a debate in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u121	I didn't put words in your mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u122	So someone else might have said that 50 deaths are okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u123	I didn't put words in your mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u124	I'd like to respond to that. I do not feel addressed, because I did not say far from it that I would not mind that there are deaths in this epidemic. I do not know what you intend to insinuate or what you intend to put in my mouth. I didn't compare the virus to a flu either. I have said that the conditions in your pandemic law are so broad that they are applicable to a heavy seasonal flu. I didn't talk about a flu. I would advise you to read the reports of the special covid committee, where Steven Van Gucht was put in the mouth that he would have ever talked about a flu. That human being was, rightly, shot in a colère because he never speaks of a flu. He doesn't even minimize a heavy seasonal flu, precisely because there are many victims, every winter. I do not think that you are putting such statements in my mouth. You should have answered the questions I asked you rather than put words in my mouth that are very shocking. I have not heard from you why a similar virus in Belgium today requires an emergency and not elsewhere. You're saying we're repeating ourselves. I have no choice but to try to get an answer today to a question which I am asking and to which I have not received an answer in committee. Mr Verherstraeten has mentioned the figures for hospitalisations and the admissions to intensive care. I asked how many patients there are with the current dominant omikron variant. I didn't get an answer. You're putting some disgusting words in my mouth. You're saying I'm comparing it to a flu I didn't do. You're making it look like someone here said it's okay that 50 people die. I don't think so. The essence - and nothing changes today - is when the conditions are met today, which is not so much about the situation itself as about the conditions. That is what we said at the start of the pandemic law. Mr Verherstraeten insists that the pandemic law will not be applied for a day, not a day too long. But if a heavy seasonal flu breaks out here tomorrow, the experts can only conclude that the conditions are met. Then, apparently, we have no choice but to extend the pandemic law. And so is the situation you have created. That's what I wanted to raise. Mr Verherstraeten, you are a lawyer. The announcement of an emergency and its ratification are very heavy and very exceptional. The situation today is no longer that kind of thing to prolong the application of the law for another three months, is it not? You can do that on the basis of numbers from a month ago. I would have preferred to have done it with figures available on 10 February 2022 and with figures on the omikron variant, which we have not received today. Madam President, may I speak about the CST, which is not discussed here wisely? We know. More and more people know. Most scientists know. Even the scientists of the GEMS know by now. Other countries know. Only here are some ministers who do not want to know that the CST is not working at all. Here they want to make an evaluation first. I really don't understand why the government is so stubborn about that. I hold my heart, now that I read in newspapers that they intend to apply the CST even to the terraces of the catering industry. I hope that we will not get that message tomorrow after the Consultative Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u125	What I find systematically unpleasant in this debate is that there would be, on the one hand, the majority, who is very attentive to the health of our citizens and takes all measures, and on the other, the opposition, because it opposes the pandemic law. It is not that we do not want measures, we oppose the way in which measures are taken through this pandemic law. The opposition would be the big bad wolf who wouldn't care if there were fifty dead a day. I think it's binary, minister, and I don't think it's like you to fall into such caricatures. When you say, for example, that you have not heard new arguments in relation to this discussion, underscoring "Circulate, there is nothing to see", neither have I heard new arguments justifying the use of the Pandemic Law mechanism. And that is not why we become unpleasant or come to such binary arguments. We want – I say "we" – to fight effectively against the pandemic. I think my colleague Catherine Fonck has never been left behind in this regard. Just ask Mr. Vandenbroucke, who's right in front of me. Never. The question is not here! The question is that, since the pandemic has lasted for two years, Parliament is mature enough and flexible enough to adopt these measures in a transparent way. Know what everyone has as their opinion on the CST or on the closure of a particular sector, be able to act quickly, transparently, and be able to attract public support to effectively combat the virus. For me, these binary positions which consist of saying "there are the good ones on one side, those who absolutely want good for your health, and on the other, there is opposition, which opposes the pandemic law and its prolongation, it is the bad guys who don't care about the sick" terribly lack class!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u126	Madam Minister, my first question was about Parliament's area when these very vague and well-defined conditions are met. I understand that we must approve the text before us, since otherwise, according to the Council of State, the government will no longer have a legal basis for adopting measures by royal or ministerial decision. That's right, that's why we have Parliament. So you can take action, but you will have to refer it to Parliament. Mr Verherstraeten, that is also a reply to your speech. You say that the government must come to Parliament without the pandemic law, but that you want to avoid it. That is indeed the essence. Madam Minister, do you agree with the Prime Minister, who said during Question Time this afternoon that the indicators are evolving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u127	Mr De Roover, I do not know exactly why you are asking this question, but it is true that the number of infections and the numbers of hospitalizations are changing in the right direction. For this reason, I hope that tomorrow we will be able to adopt measures other than those currently in force in the Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u128	All right, Madam Secretary. In that case, I would like to point out that the Royal Decree was issued on the basis of a report that states that there is an adverse evolution of the epidemiological situation compared to the October 2021 analysis. That means that today we are no longer in the situation described in the report, while your royal decision was issued on the basis of that report. We have two weeks, because the Chamber must confirm your royal decision within two weeks. In the meantime, however, you agree with me that the data on which you base yourself in order to issue the royal decree are outdated. We read literally: "We have evolved from a situation in which there is an adverse evolution of the epidemiological situation" - the report on which your royal decision is based - "to a situation in which indicators are evolving in the right direction." An unfavourable evolution is one, a good evolution the other direction, I think. According to the Prime Minister, your boss, there is now a fundamental difference from the report on the basis of which we confirm today, on 10 February, that there were grounds on 19 January for extending the measures on the epidemiological emergency. The data in that report are no longer correct. The data has fundamentally changed, unless the Prime Minister here this afternoon has told an untruth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u129	Mr De Roover, this debate is a re-release of so many debates in which you are always the same. What you're saying really doesn't make any sense. There's been an epidemic. It is said that a situation is an emergency situation that justifies the activation of the pandemic law. It doesn't mean that when the situation starts to improve, there will be no immediate emergency and the law will no longer be needed. Who ever thought of that? Who could think of such a thing? You, of course, who keep repeating that little straw with no content. Who ever thought that when people say that there is an emergency, and at some point the situation improves, that this is suddenly no longer an emergency, but that it is suddenly a completely different situation? It's just weird what you say, isn't it? Okay, keep repeating your little straw. You probably don't have much else to say than this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u130	The minister's classic generosity couldn't be suppressed anyway. We get a royal decision based on a report from the RAG, which says, and used as an argument, that there is an adverse evolution. In the meantime, we are in a favourable evolution. I believe that this is indeed a relevant new fact. But there is probably no indication that you can chase out of your ivory tower, Minister. You're probably so fixated on continuing the emergency. That is what I said earlier: the blurring of the meaning of terms. An emergency situation is a situation in which we must all say that we must be able to act quickly, by means of royal decisions and not through Parliament. We are the only country in which that word 'emergency situation' is still being used today. In my opinion, the RAG dealt well with the terms at the time. At that time, you were able to rely on the unfavourable evolution, but today we have a new situation. The indicators are changing in the right direction and in such a way that in other countries the debate is about the degree of relaxation, while here today it is about the extent to which we are in an emergency. Mr Vandenbroucke, you may not suffer from restrictions on freedom. A lot of civilians do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u131	Madam President, Mr De Roover, I would like to add one more point, because the logic of your words is completely lacking. Firstly, the opinion we have received says much more than simply that the situation is evolving negatively. There's no way you can bring the advice back to that one sentence. Second, you compare apples to pears. The Prime Minister says today that the indicators are evolving positively or positively. That's relative to the last few days. We've seen the spike in the infections. Hopefully we saw that peak in the hospitalizations. However, there are still 403 patients in ICU today, who have been admitted due to a corona infection. These are indicators that lead us to conclude that there is still pressure on the healthcare system and an epidemic emergency. You are now comparing the tendency of the past few days in the infections, which have fortunately been reduced, with the assessment of whether there is pressure. The logic you're trying to tell me is really lost. I can finish with those words.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u132	Madam President, Minister, it is not for the government to decide for the time being. Yeah, I'm finishing up, too. We speak for deaf ears, but not for public opinion. But here in the hemisphere we see the surreal situation, where, on the one hand, relaxation is advocated and, on the other hand, the most panicky terminology is used, namely an epidemic emergency. Without an epidemiological emergency, what could you not do with the cooperation of Parliament to combat, hopefully, the remnants of the situation as we now know them from the public health point of view? Mr Verherstraeten, it is to your credit that you did defend this important piece of legislation. You were quite alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u133	Madam President, I regret that we do not receive answers to pertinent questions about such a heavy legal situation that will be well endorsed today by all the majority members. If there is a favourable epidemiological evolution today, we will not get an answer as to why the state of emergency should be invoked immediately for three months. I did not ask many questions in the hope that I would at least get an answer to that. If those answers do not come, if one does not go beyond low-by-ground insinuations on matters that have not even been said on the floor, I can only conclude that the emergency situation is not at all present in society, but in the vivaldi government. Apparently, they need it to keep chattering and distracting attention from the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u134	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u135	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2459/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2459/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on an amendment to the agenda, i.e. the addition of an item. This point still relates to the discussion we have just conducted. Perhaps we could propose to look at it directly, rather than to cut the discussion and resume after other topics that will follow. I think this could be the best solution for the coherence of our work. I see you accept. We therefore vote to add an item and now add it to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u138	Madam President, I would like to say that my colleague Kurt Ravyts is not logged in for the vote, but he would very much like to vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u140	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Accordingly, the amendment to the agenda was adopted. As a result, the agenda change was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u141	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Thémont, Florence Reuter, Cécile Cornet, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u142	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Lanjri, is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u143	Madam President, the present text contains the same type of provisions as Bill No. 2455, but the measures referred to here relate to other sectors. This is important since it is intended, in particular, to ensure that the person who is in the RCC and who returns to work is able to benefit from part of the unemployment benefit, but also from the company supplement, that the person concerned returns to work with his former employer or with another employer. This is a way of encouraging the "return to work" of a number of people in the particular context of the pandemic. This also allows foreign nationals who are in a special situation of stay in the territory to participate in our economy. It is, in my opinion, interesting to go and find the talent where they are so that they can integrate our businesses. This may also pave the way for future initiatives. These are the elements that I wanted to draw attention to in the discussion of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u144	Madam President, I too wanted to stress a few important points, although we did not speak in this morning's debate about similar measures which, in the end, were not really problematic. It is an excellent thing that the proposed measures are finally put to the vote, because if we are here, it is above all to bring about solutions that must be in line with the concrete realities of the citizens. Therefore, I would like to say to all those who have tried to delay the adoption of these measures at committees, through desolating manoeuvres, that it is by acting in such a way that they widen the gap between politics and citizens every day, that they forget that we are here to take decisions that meet the needs of the ground, and that it is not in the end the FGTB that makes the rules. This must be heard! The shortage of labour has affected thousands of companies and workers in recent weeks. It is true that the Omicron variant generates a record labour shortage: more than 50,000 daily contaminations have been observed and, with them, its share of diseases and quarantines. All sectors, public or private, are affected. That is why it is essential today to vote for these measures to support the private sector and to enable it, too, to use temporary unemployed people, successive contracts, students or to suspend time credits and thematic leave in order to remedy this labour shortage. The deadlines are short for the private sector, since the measure concerns only the period from 23 January to 28 February. It is therefore, I repeat, urgent to vote for these measures. In addition, it is also an opportunity to question our labour market, which becomes rigid over time and which struggles to evolve. However, as you will agree, this is another debate, even though we have had the beginnings of it today in the context of topical issues. In the meantime, of course, my group supports the proposal before us, as well as proposal No 2455, which is being debated this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u145	Madam President, over the past few weeks, I have been studying the proposal seriously. I have been thinking about how this proposal was made. Does the minister get a call at night from someone from Voka who tells him a story? He says that companies received a lot of gifts from the government in 2021 and that they are very satisfied with all concessions on flexibility. Now, however, the economy is turning back and the companies are making good profits, but despite all the flexibility that the government has given the companies about the employees, they all suddenly fall out sick. Hence the question of how to deal with this. He concludes by stating that all the Minister's strange quarantine rules did not, of course, help the companies either. I wonder what you are replying to, Minister. You knew there would be another peak in January, but you chose to wait. The Vivaldi government stays calm and everything will be resolved. Although the companies had already obtained a lot of concessions on flexibility, you have looked again at what you could do. You have then come up with the present proposal, which will give the temporary unemployed the opportunity to work elsewhere. For people with time credits who are at home for the care of their sick parents or for the education of their children, the possibility is created to call them back. The government wants to abolish early retirement, so it wants to see how people who have retired early can still be kept at work. So page them. Even if it's voluntary, they'll come if people bitch long enough. Students get 45 hours extra. There is also a clause for asylum seekers, but I do not know how you will set them in motion. That is all very nice, Minister, but what are the social partners going to say about that? Come on, the social partners should not be difficult, we should allow them to meet for a while and if one of the social partners is making it difficult, then the Vivaldi government will continue to do what it wants. We'll take care of it. We're putting in all these rules, and we're doing it retroactively. However, this does not happen retroactively, because if you have to make a bill, you have to go to the Council of State and it will give you the wind ahead. You're right about that. So we're gonna make it a bill. We are Vivaldi, we have the majority if we have to vote in committee. So that's solved, too. Then we come to the committee and there are parties who stand on their backs and ask for a second reading. Oh, we didn't expect that, because that regulation runs from 23 January to 28 February, so it's urgent. When the omikron wave is almost over, when there are no more problems for employers and companies, we come up with a solution. We have the solution and then it has to be quick, retrospective. That second reading? Shit, we didn't count on that. The next week we can vote, and then there's another party that's making trouble, because of the absurdity of such a bill. In that case, a written report on which a vote must be taken will certainly be requested. Oh, we didn't count on that either. You know what we do? We do have parliamentary rules, but we're just gonna get rid of them. We are still going to meet early, so that we can push through that proposal in the evening, so that we can still implement that flexibility for the last two weeks. I am making this ridiculous because this bill is also ridiculous, because these measures do not have the consent of all trade unions. If one of the two largest trade unions in the country opposes this, it is because they have reason to. People know what's going on in the workplace. It is surprising that Vivaldi then simply goes beyond social consultation, as it is claimed to take the first place in matters relating to the world of work. It is denied that the only solution to the health crisis in work lies in ultra-flexibleness. If employees retire early or take up time credit, it is because there are reasons for it. One of these reasons is that people are worn out by work, especially because of the flexibility measures that are still being implemented here in good time. Flexibility is the solution to everything for this vivaldi government. What about respect for the workers who have had a long career, or for the people who need time to take care of a sick family member? Where were those questions asked? We refuse to accept these measures because they are completely outside the control of the trade unions. There is, however, a loophole in which the unions would be involved. You said to the employers that they could carry it out and that it would be put in order retroactively. In the first two weeks, the trade unions simply need to be informed. If there are no unions, it can just be hung on a plate somewhere in the factory. Well, that's supposed to be enough to inform people. Two weeks later, the unions are allowed to react. If délégué X or Y says after two weeks that it is no longer human, the employer will ask if there is a need for a special works council and say that there will be negotiations two weeks later. This proposal runs until the end of February. In what way are the trade unions involved? You just made fun of them. That is the reality of this bill, which should have been a bill. We refuse employers to impose their agendas. It cannot be that VOKA or the VBO start calling around to prevent the problems from being solved and to provide a shock strategy. In times of crisis, they want to dismantle our labour law in order to make their liberal policies structural. They are not alone, however, because they have a political connection. Look how Hilde Crevits calls on the federal government to take structural measures on flexibilisation. This is a political file, it does not serve to solve problems. If these measures imposed from above were not necessary two weeks ago, then they are not now. Now that omikron is over, we are all the more convinced of their uselessness. The Minister must announce the end of this playground and have the measures withdrawn. Finally, many other measures need to be taken to deal with the effects of the virus on farms. There are problems in the world of work which date back to the health crisis and which have now only become worse. That is why we are consistently calling for more staff in the critical sectors, better working conditions and higher wages to make certain jobs more attractive. Pay them! We also call for a smoother combination of work and private life in order to prevent these people from working tiredly and even sickly. In order to tackle the infection with the virus in the companies, Vivaldi only applied an ex-post strategy. You do not act until the damage has been done, when the people are infected and the employers complain about the many absences. When will you finally start taking preventive action by breaking the chain of infections? You can ensure that quarantines are complied with if people do not lose a lot of income with them, as happens in many European countries. You can also make sure that self-tests are free, as the experts have requested. We have been asking the government for two years to change its strategy, from ex ante to ex ante, from behind the facts to prevention, from taking measures on call from employers' organisations to protect workers in advance. Nothing happened. The VBO calls for help while no company has actually stopped during the peak of this omikron wave. That will not happen now. But then suddenly everything can be reproduced. However, if the people are in an energy crisis and are no longer paid their bills, all we are told is that this is not so simple and that it takes time. There will be longer waiting and it will be before April at the earliest. That is the reality. Where's the difference in these files? We will continue to say that this is not worthy of a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal to be done on the legislative proposal, the treatment of which has been unnecessarily delayed. That was absolutely unnecessary. It follows from the urgent procedure adopted that urgent measures must be taken, in this case because the companies and the workers, who are under high pressure, also need these measures at that time. Many employees have a job that does not allow homework and also in many companies where logistics requires a lot of hands, employees have fallen out because children of workers were quarantined or infected or because there have been a lot of infections in the last two weeks to date. High absenteeism is still at the top of the labour market. This means that measures must be taken, including temporary measures, to deal with emergencies. The government majority decided to take emergency measures to temporarily give companies more instruments in order to address the shortage of staff. In this way we prevent companies from having to close down all or part of it. Moreover, it is clear from a survey I already mentioned in committee that 35% of companies have a temporary turnover loss and that 11% suffer a permanent turnover loss. This means that employment is also at risk. It is therefore necessary to be able to switch quickly and to apply measures flexibly when staff are under such pressure. In addition, the proposal has been accepted for workers as well. The measures are supported by employers' representatives and by two of the three trade unions, who also recognised the need for temporary measures. They allow extra flexibility, so that, for example, job students work in businesses and shops during their class-free week in order to relieve the workload of other staff. On 10 December, Open Vld was right to express its concern about the situation and even proposed a plan of action. We are therefore pleased that a number of measures have been taken. At the same time, we remind the government that it must take structural measures on flexibility, for example in the area of night work in e-commerce and in the area of weekly and daily working hours. I will not repeat this afternoon's debate. It has already shown that we need a thorough reform of the labour market in the 21st century. As I said, we must be able to switch quickly in emergency situations which cause a shortage of staff. We support the proposed measures - and I will not list them anymore, because that would push us too far - which are temporary measures. We must continue to monitor the impact of the omikron wave on companies and sectors today and in the coming weeks. The situation on the labour market is pressing. We need to give our economy and our employees oxygen, because they're moaning under the pressure of work. The measures are therefore more than necessary today, and they will be in the future. We support them in the interests of employers and certainly also in the interests of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that the Omikron variant may lead to less seriously ill people who end up in hospital, but are much more contagious than the previous ones. I can testify to that myself. At the beginning of January, I was struck by the virus. The virus affects everyone without distinction. It also affects many employees and employers in the private sector. The bill on health and education measures has already been discussed. This is about the measures we are taking in the private sector, which is no less important. It is good that there is strong support for these measures. Everyone, employers' and employees' organisations, with the exception of the socialist trade union, supports these measures. They must tackle the problem currently facing the private sector. With this proposal we are implementing what the social partners themselves want. We are pleased that our entrepreneurs and employees can quickly make use of a package of measures put forward through this legislative proposal. We know that they have been hit not only by the pandemic for two years, but by the fact that a lot of people are now falling out, that they are also being hit by major staff cuts at the moment. This creates a huge, unfeasible workload within many companies for which we need to find solutions. They are in the form of more flexible use of fixed-term contracts, people in the asylum procedure who can go to work, people who can be employed out of temporary unemployment while retaining a large proportion of their benefits, people who are in unemployment with social benefits. That's important. It is an exceptional measure in an exceptional situation. It was important that there was broad support for the social partners. We regret that it is not 100 percent, because one union could not agree with the proposal. However, we consider the proposal to be balanced. It benefits both our employees and employers, and in this way also society, because that is how we ensure that our economy can continue to function in part. The measures contained in this bill will, as has been said, take effect retroactively from 23 January. I think it is important that people in the field, workers and employers, be clear as soon as possible. It is indeed important that this bill be adopted as soon as possible. We therefore regret the reaction of the colleagues of the PVDA, who claim to be in favour of the working class. I believe that every effort should be made to implement these measures effectively. This will enable our workers, who have so far had difficulty in doing so, to take advantage of these measures to facilitate work organisation during the corona crisis. Trade unions in recent weeks had to defend the interests of their members on the basis of the announcement of these measures, rather than on the basis of a legal framework. We must no longer tolerate this. It is important that trade unions can also rely on the legal framework in place. This is a legal basis, this is no longer purely an announcement. Many companies have so far been uncertain whether or not it would come through. You have probably been asked several times in your mailbox to speed up these measures. That is what we are doing today. Hence the importance of adopting these measures, of adopting this legislative proposal, so that legal certainty can be restored on the ground. Perhaps the social partners should consider similar measures in the future. Let us hope that this is no longer the case. But we know in the meantime that the corona crisis is unfortunately not something that lasts only a few months. It has been going on for two years now, and perhaps we will have to learn to live with the pandemic for a long time to come. Let us hope that the pandemic becomes an endemia as soon as possible and that it becomes something like the flu. It hasn't been for a while. If such measures are to be introduced again in the future, we hope from CD&V that the social partners will consider the aspect of the inclusion of temporary unemployed, which can be effectively employed today while maintaining 75% of their unemployment benefit, on top of their pay. In our view, this is a form of discrimination in the workplace, where, for example, a school drop-out who has started working immediately receives 100 % pay and someone else who comes out of temporary unemployment gets 175 % of his salary. We absolutely believe that measures should be taken to get the unemployed back to work. We must ensure that there are no obstacles to this and that there is no unemployment trap, so that those people take that step effectively. It is not a problem for us that these people can temporarily take some of their unemployment benefits, but we find that 75% is on the high side. Should it occur, should it be necessary to re-introduce such measures later, I would ask the social partners to take account in their opinion of reducing that 75%. In this way, we are making good use of the resources from taxpayers and destined for the community, while encouraging people. Let us hope that these measures will enable our employers and employees to cope with the umpteenth storm we have to face. Together with our finance minister, Vincent Van Peteghem, and the Flemish Minister of Work, Hilde Crevits, we have done everything we can to keep the economy going. From the Vivaldi government, with the measures now taken and supported by Minister Vandenbroucke, we are doing all we can to support our economy and our workers. We hope that these measures can be reduced as much as possible this year. If it is necessary, then we are the first to re-introduce such measures, but we sincerely hope that it will not be necessary anymore. Madam President, we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal, co-signed by Mr Muylle for CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to start the debate again, but the high contagiity of the Omicron variant leads to quarantines and absences due to a large number of diseases in all sectors. In any case, it is necessary to allow business to continue. When defending workers, it is also important to relieve their workload. I would also like to point out that this bill introduces provisions that will remain strictly time-limited. They are exceptional and will last five weeks. I hear the reactions about the social partners. The Minister has taken steps to address union concerns. In order for the trade union delegation to properly assess the situation, the employer is required to provide precise information on absenteeism in the company, but also on its impact on the operation of the company. If the trade union delegation considered that the use of measures was unjustified in relation to their objectives, it could veto the pursuit of those provisions. I would also point out that the request is expressed on a voluntary basis. There is also no obligation. I would like to add that I will obviously be attentive to the mechanism and its evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u149	On the contrary, it is clear that these measures are exceptional and temporary in order to cope with the drop-out of personnel in companies and, in this way, to reduce the workload on the remaining staff. If there are few employees left, then they are on their own. In that case, it is important that additional forces are put in place in the workplace. The proposed provisions are applied retroactively and this is important for reasons of legal certainty. I think that the legislative proposal is particularly important because it provides an instrument for trade union representatives on the ground, on the workplace, in the companies, because they can decide whether or not the storm in their company is over. Once the storm has settled, they can veto the fact that the company would continue to make use of exceptional measures. However, the need for structural measures remains both to tackle labour shortages and to improve the quality of work. However, it is short to say that nothing is happening in that area. Let me give you some examples. For the first time in a long time, the minimum wage will be raised again, starting from April. We are committed to more net wages for the employee by increasing the work bonus and reducing the special social security contribution. In the light of the combination of work and family life, since 1 January we have extended birth leave to 15 days and will eventually increase it to 20 days. We also extended the funeral leave from 3 to 10 days. In structural terms, therefore, we have certainly taken steps forward. Of course, a high-quality labour market needs to be further strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u150	From the other parties of the Vivaldi government, I can understand such a proposal, but our social partners argue that the trade unions can veto it. It's only been two weeks. The bill goes for a month. Two weeks the employer may introduce the proposed measures. After two weeks, the union vetoes. Then he must be lucky to be able to go to the boss on Monday morning. It doesn't work that way in the workplace. So just admit the union has nothing to say about it. Don't act like he's got something to say about it. You're saying you're on birth leave. Nice. Its extension has also been approved by the PVDA. But the time-credit that a worker can apply for for the growing child, you will reduce it, because that is not so important; then the employee should find a solution for those days or that month, perhaps at the reception mother. So the reality is quite different. As I say to you, we will return more often in the coming months and years for even more flexibility, as the proposed measures give us. If the procedure with the veto becomes the new normal, it will certainly not be with our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u151	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u152	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2456-3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2456/3) The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u153	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u154	As amended by the Senate Complemented by the Senate Bills referred to the House by the Senate are no longer the subject of general discussion in plenary (s. 87 of the Regulation). There is no general discussion in plenary on a bill returned to the Chamber by the Senate (Art. 87 of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u155	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u156	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2376/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2376/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u157	Madam President, the present draft law was indeed discussed in December and then sent to the Senate, so you know our position. We voted in favour then, and we will do so today. We have also tabled amendments, which I would like to explain. I believe that there are also amendments from Flemish Interest and the PVDA. When I faced the bill that has since evolved into a bill for the first time... (...):(...) May I have your attention, please? If you don't care, maybe you could sit in the coffee room.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u158	We're all ears.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u159	I don't believe it, but okay. I said I was thrilled about your bill because there was finally an initiative by the majority regarding the party donations. Already in December 2019 I had tabled a bill to change that, because there is a lot of criticism among the population about the size, spending and so on of party events. That is why I wanted to start the debate. That seemed to work, because in December 2019 an amendment was tabled to deduct €600,000 from the party donations in the Chamber's budget. I thought we left, but then I was frustrated for two years because nothing happened. The reduction of EUR 600,000 was ultimately not achieved, as the majority of the current Vivaldi government had meanwhile been born without taking any initiative in this matter. So I was pleased that there was finally a legislative proposal to do something about it, but it didn't take long, because I noticed that it was about a saving of 1.1% at 1 year. That is a very small amount compared to what we had in mind. It turned out that it was not really a majority initiative, because it was actually based on a letter from the government honoring who deserved to be honored, which almost ordered Parliament to save 1,11 % on party donations during the period 2022-2025. My first surprise was that your bill only covered a year, Madam President. It would result in a very limited saving of 1,11 % on party donations which would then be largely eaten by inflation. We approved it anyway, and we will do it today. Better a bird in the hand than ten in the air, I'd say. Any bits can help. We regret, however, that our amendments were not approved. We have therefore retabled them. If you had approved it - you can still do it today - we would not have made a small saving, without feeling it, of a small EUR 300,000, but we could have saved EUR 1.23 million. Then we could really have said to the citizens that we are also making an effort, because we are abolishing this indexing of party donations and blocking it on an amount that was granted in 2019. I would once again ask the majority to show that you mean it with the passage from the coalition agreement, which states that they will be working on party dots. The only initiative I have seen so far is that of the Green Group. Mr Calvo has come up with some fresh ideas in the Netherlands. He has come up with two legislative proposals in which we are not advocating the reduction of party dots - perhaps still will be - but with which we want to introduce a system which imposes on the parties what they are allowed to do with those dots. That's more than a bridge too far. This tends towards state discipline and interference by the government in the use of donations to the political parties, and this may compromise their independence. Not only do I find that far-reaching, our good comrades of the PVDA cannot go along with that story. Such State interference goes too far for them. I therefore do not understand where this party funding is going to go. It is time for a serious debate to take place and in the meantime we are freezing the situation by 2019 so that we can avoid the significant growth that has taken place in the meantime, without doing anything, because of the indexation. Madam President, we shall therefore vote in favour of your proposal, bearing in mind the critical reservations I have just raised. In turn, I am asking for support for my two very good amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u160	Madam President, we did indeed discuss this issue in December. The text adopted was technically amended in the Senate and is therefore now before the vote again. In December, both in committee and in plenary, I tried to deal with the far too high amounts of money on the ground. What is now before us is a reduction of 1.1 percent, but in absolute terms this means an increase of 280,000 euros. In addition, the working costs of the political groups are also increasing. That can hardly be sold as a reduction or a saving. I cannot vote against, because if that reduction is not implemented by 1,11 %, the amounts are even higher, but it is not a reduction. That is why our group will not support the proposal, but abstain in the vote unless you support our amendments. At the heart of the problem is that the donations to the parties are far too high. We all know the history of the current party funding. The party funding was created in the aftermath of the Agustas scandal, as Mr Vandenbroucke will remember, since the socialists had committed large-scale corruption. Since then, gifts from private individuals and companies have been restricted and party donations have been introduced. The big problem is that the traditional parties have served themselves very well over the years, and in addition, the amounts are simply too high, especially in times of budgetary squeeze and crisis. I would like to stress once again that, in the current crisis, people can barely pay their energy bills but in the meantime, the parties are generously rewarding themselves. We were promised a debate to do something about this in essence. Unfortunately, that debate has not yet come. Mr Van der Donkt has already referred to it. There is a concrete proposal on the table from the Greens, not to deal with the amounts themselves, but to decide what these parties are allowed to do with it. They want to limit what is being done with that money on social media. When I read the statements made by Green MEPs on what they intend to do with these amounts, I see that it is not a question of dealing with the whole package but of redistributing it. Now we are in a situation in which the major parties are favoured. When the traditional parties were still large, they saw no problem. However, now that they are becoming electoral, they want to revise the redistribution and suddenly favour the smaller parties through a new system. That, of course, is not the discussion we want to go along with. Mr Van der Donkt, we will support your amendment. Every saving, no matter how small, is a saving. However, we believe that it can be much more drastic and much better. That is why I would like to present my proposal on the fourth occasion. The first time I submitted it to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in December 2021; then I did so in plenary and I also submitted it to the Senate. I then put it back to the committee. So I hope for a good time five times. Mr Van der Donkt, you indicated that you were delighted when you originally read the proposal or when, I presume, you read the title only. You probably weren't when you read the proposal yourself. After all, we propose to halve the amounts. We will not stop at that fifth time, if that does not happen. The promised debate to thoroughly reform the regime must come about. Compared to the population affected by savings, energy bills and inflation on all sides, it cannot be justified that so much money flows to the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u161	Madam President, let us talk a little about the money that political parties have in our country! It is a taboo, even though colleagues often say in the press that party endowments must be reduced. It must be said that the price of politics in Belgium is excessively high. Not only do we have multiple parliaments with Members of Parliament and very well paid political staff, but there are also all ministers. We have a lot of ministers: just new for health! All this costs. In addition, the system of party endowments is added. This system goes so far that the parties can no longer even spend the money they accumulate. In 2017, the total assets of political parties in Belgium amounted to 161 million euros, twice as much as in 1999. For more than 30 years, all kinds of endowments have increased. The PTB is fighting for a downward review of these endowments as well as the salaries of MPs. Thanks to our colleague in the Flemish Parliament, Jos D'Haese, we have obtained a reduction in the salaries of the Flemish Members of Parliament. We are proud of that! We want party endowments to decrease. That is why we have again tabled an amendment to reduce all political party allocations by 50%. This would be a real reduction that would make it possible to earn more than 20 million euros a year. So far, the amendment has not been supported by the majority in committee – the fine words fly fast – or by other parties. So we're repositioning it here. In our view, the proposed legislation under consideration does not demonstrate a serious desire to revise these endowments downwards. Indeed, parties receive more than 73 million euros at all levels of power, and a reduction of 1.11% of these allocations is indecent. On the other hand, when we look more closely, as colleagues have already said, this is a big joke because this decrease comes only after the application of indexation by 2%. It is therefore tantamount to voting today for an increase of €280,000 in this allocation. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, who the fuck is this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u162	The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u163	• 12 – Barbara Pas cs (2376/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip162x.u164	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Thursday, February 10, 2022 at 7:40 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 10 February 2022 at 7.40 p.m.
