ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u1	Questions Nos 55028132C and 55029370C by Mr Erik Gilissen are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, an Irish NGO has published a report revealing "the biggest data breach ever recorded". This organisation tells us that the behaviour of a US user on the Internet is shared 747 times a day. For Europe, the average is 376 and for Belgium, 288 daily shares. It is therefore observed that the GDPR protects us more than US citizens, but that this protection is partial, especially since this report does not contain the data of Facebook and Amazon, yet very active in the exploitation of our data on the internet. Mr Secretary of State, have you read this report? What was your reaction? What are you considering to improve the protection of Belgians on the Internet? Will you require transparency measures on the part of Facebook and Amazon regarding the data that these companies collect in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u3	Mr President, I have read the report of the Irish Council for Civil Liberties (ICCL) on real-time bid data in Europe and the United States. From the perspective of the ICCL, this would be the biggest data breach of what citizens see online. Thus, they would be shared 294 billion times in the United States and 197 billion times in Europe a day. These numbers are huge. To answer your questions, when reading these reports, I have three main thoughts. Firstly, we still have a long way to go in terms of the protection of personal data, at least in terms of compliance with the rules in force, hence the importance of the discussion we just had a few minutes ago. My second reflection is on the results of Belgium. Our country behaves very well below the European average, with 288 shares per day per person. My third reflection concerns the gap between the United States and Europe. Although the report does not make it clear, I want to believe that this is the effect of the GDPR that we are defending. It has now been more than four years since the GDPR came into force. Although our citizens have already understood and integrated the importance to be attached to the management and protection of their personal data, we must continue to raise awareness and maintain their good reflexes by surfing the Internet. With regard to companies responsible for data violations, we have now entered the repressive phase of the implementation of the GDPR. While there was some tolerance in the early years of the Regulations to allow all actors to adapt to the new rules, ODA now imposes substantial fines on offenders. These two aspects – awareness-raising and repression – can only improve the protection of Belgians on the Internet in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to learn that ODA imposes fines on the companies concerned. It's a very good step!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u5	Secretary of State, several European consumer associations have recently filed complaints against Google, as the platform would encourage users to allow invasive processing of their personal data. More specifically, these complaints were lodged in France, Greece, Norway, the Czech Republic and Slovenia with the national data protection authorities under the GDPR. If Belgium is not included in this list, it is subject to the same conditions of use as its neighbouring countries. According to the Deputy Director General of the European Bureau of Consumer Unions (BEUC), when creating an account and starting to use the platform, "one step is enough to allow Google to monitor and exploit everything you do. If you want to benefit from privacy-promoting parameters, you are faced with a lengthy process and unclear and confusing options." The multiplication of the steps to be taken and their complexity therefore encourage the user not to protect his or her privacy. And the fact that it's Google is not annoyed. In addition to being the most popular search engine and thus generating the most data, all users of the Android system (present in seven out of ten smartphones around the world) need to create a Google account to be able to download apps. So here we are talking about a massive amount of data, potentially poorly protected, including in Belgium. BEUC argued that privacy should be the default choice, the easiest for consumers. GDPR is virtuous and ambitious. However, the protection it offers must not be out of reach. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of a similar complaint at Belgian level? Is this complaint, coordinated at European level, going to open up work to strengthen the RGDP at Belgian and European level? In consultation with your European counterparts, what are you doing to protect consumers' privacy and user data against giants such as Google?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u6	Mr President, the Data Protection Authority (PDA), which I have asked on this subject, has confirmed to me that I have not received a complaint from BEUC, unlike other European regulators. On the basis of the cooperation mechanism of the GDPR, if ODA considers itself the authority concerned, it will be involved in the process of cooperation at European level. Once the complaint is processed, there is likely to be lessons to be learned. These could contribute to the reflection on strengthening the GDPR and the privacy law in Belgium. But every thing in its time: let the supervisory authorities do their job first. Finally, I would like to point out that the implementation of the GDPR is the responsibility of ODA, which acts independently in this regard. For my part, I am continuing my work of raising awareness at the national level, as well as the ongoing work of revising the privacy law, which does not stop with the ODA law. You will not have escaped that we planned to discuss my ODA reform project today, precisely with the aim of placing it in a better position to carry out its statutory tasks, including with regard to the GAFAMs. I count on Parliament as a whole to support the strengthening of the independence and expertise of ODA, but also to provide for a substantial increase in the resulting operational resources for ODA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic862x.u7	Thank you for the answers, Secretary of State. I note that, in your view, ODA is one or even the main response to the threats posed by GAFAM. For the rest, I assure you, it has not escaped me that we have dealt today with an important law in this regard. This is another reason for moving forward, although calmly and thoroughly, but especially as quickly as possible.
