ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u1	Madam President, Prime Minister, "Belgium is a corrupt country... and, despite everything, no one reacts" is the observation made by the investigating judge Michel Claise in January in the press. It is true that my question dates back to February. And he added: "Corruption in us is at all levels, even among the police. The political world is not spared." Since the introduction of my question, some notable events have occurred, such as the conviction of Alain Mathot found guilty of corruption by the Liège Court of Appeal or, more recently, the judicial investigation initiated against our colleague Philippe Tison, former mayor of Anderlues, for suspicions of corruption and misappropriation of public property. In 2018, a study by Ernst & Young indicated that corruption is twice as high in Belgium (20%) as in Western Europe (10%). Of the 55 countries analysed, only Ukraine (36%) and Kenya (26%) were worse than Belgium. GRECO, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, has been pinning Belgium for years. Its 2020 evaluation report addressed 22 recommendations to the Belgian authorities. GRECO subsequently found in its compliance report that only 2 of these 22 recommendations were implemented. I had asked the Minister of the Interior the question, but she replied only on the specific aspects that concern her, police and political renewal, adding that "the other recommendations of GRECO fall within the competence of different ministers." However, the question of corruption is a particular one for the political world. That's why I'm asking you these questions. How is it that only 2 of the 22 GRECO recommendations have been implemented? Among the other 20 recommendations, how many of them does your government intend to implement under this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, on 21 January last, GRECO's fifth report gave a dark look at the fight against corruption in the Belgian Executive and the police. GRECO concludes that Belgium has satisfactorily implemented or dealt with 2 of the 22 recommendations. Of those outstanding, 2 were partially implemented and 18 were not implemented. As far as necessary, I would point out that, already in May 2021, the report of the Council of Europe indicated that Belgium was fighting corruption in a "globally inadequate" manner. Indeed, of the 15 recommendations made in 2014 by GRECO, only 4 were implemented seven years later. Moreover, in June 2018, the audit firm Ernst & Young found that the overall level of corruption in Belgium had doubled in six years, while the developed countries and Western Europe achieved an average score of 10%, half that of our country. How does the government justify that only 2 of the 22 GRECO recommendations have been implemented? What anti-corruption measures, mentioned in the last GRECO report, will be put in place under this legislative term? Could you provide a specific timeline on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to my answer at the January committee meeting to a similar question from Mr Loones. I explained at that time that the government took note of the interim report. This is the first report of the fifth cycle and the next report is expected in the middle of 2023. The government takes the conclusions of the report seriously and the Minister of Justice has already asked all the colleagues concerned to follow up on the recommendations. In addition, I also consult with the relevant Ministers, particularly those of the Democratic Renewal, on how we can implement all the recommendations in a more coordinated manner. Of course, particular priority will be given to the commitments included in the government agreement. In this regard, the timetable is clear, since we will have to submit a new report by May next. Indeed, GRECO's verdict is harsh. Anyone who reads the report in detail notes that the actions are in progress with respect to almost all of the recommendations. We are therefore working on this, but we have not yet reached the level desired by GRECO. As far as the lobby register is concerned, the government agreement stipulates that the Chamber will first evaluate its own lobby register and then extend it to the government. I understand that the Court's evaluation is still ongoing in the framework of the working group on political parties. The government is happy to await the outcome of the evaluation before taking initiatives itself, so that Parliament's register as the government will also be aligned. I hope that progress can be made in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u4	Prime Minister, I hear you and I hope we can move forward. I would have wished more than hope in that regard. This is a very serious matter. As you said yourself, the verdict of GRECO is harsh and in relation to that, I think it takes more than vague expectations. We really need to have the ambition - and that is the question that I asked you and you did not answer - to have achieved for the end of the Parliament all these 22 recommendations, in any case the remaining 20 of GRECO. When you tell me that the evaluation of the House lobby record must be done before the government begins, I do not understand why you need to wait for the work of the House to begin the work of the government. The same applies to other GRECO requests. Your answer isn't really up to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u5	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer, which at the very least reflects an awareness of the phenomenon and for pointing out that this finding was severe, because it is. We will see how your Government will respond to GRECO's recommendations. Whether it is the majority or the opposition, regardless of the level of power, we should not underestimate how much, in an already populist and sometimes anti-democratic, anti-parliamentary atmosphere, the fight against corruption is really a necessity. This is important for the population, and it helps to secure or re-establish trust with the world of politics, which has generally distended.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is good to be able to discuss a number of issues today. You have a special role in a special government. It's pretty colorful and a lot of voice. We already knew that you were faced with very powerful party chairmen, Mr Bouchez, and more and more often also Mr Lachaert, Mr Magnette. For some time now, you have also had to deal with ministers, who apparently consider it desirable not only to communicate about their ministerial tasks, but also to carry out party communication. For example, we saw an opinion piece in Time, signed by all ministers of the socialist family. In fact, that piece of opinion is very far-reaching. The signatories consider budgetary discipline to be "excessive." Once again, the policy pursued at the time of the Stability Pact, in order to get our budgets in order, would, in their view, be 'a serious mistake'. The opinion paper refers to the fact that the Member States have committed large debts, but they do not consider that to be an argument for paying attention to the pennies. They also describe all expenditure incurred in the framework of ecology as productive investments by definition. That piece of opinion was signed by members of your government, and they do so with their ministerial title. I asked you a written question first because I did not want to waste your time, but I was somewhat surprised by your answer. You did not see any problem because they would have signed as socialists, not as ministers. Because I thought I might have read it wrong, I added the opinion piece again, and who do I see as signatories? I quote: 'Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour; Frank Vandenbroucke, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health; Meryame Kitrir, Minister for Development Cooperation and Grand City Policy; Thomas Dermine, State Secretary for Relance and Strategic Investments'. That's not what you said in your answer. I can't get out completely. That's why I was hoping you could give me some extra answers today. This does indeed touch on the essence. Do you think this is normal? Do you think it is normal for your ministers to carry party communication? Don't you think it would be better to condemn this? If you do not, put the cat by the milk and invite them to do so much more often. We have seen a Socialist PS wish list of EUR 6.5 billion, not only proposed by Mr Magnette, but also by your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dermagne. It seems to me that you should agree on your team that members of government communicate on government issues and that party communication may rather be based on the party chairmen. The Bouchez model can be an example in this respect rather than a cursed one by your colleagues. I'd like to hear your thoughts on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u7	Madam President, Mr Loones, you sometimes ask essential questions. First, I'll discuss the opinion piece. In De Tijd the Socialist Ministers and Secretary of State were mentioned as authors. It was not just federal ministers, but also ministers from other governments, all belonging to the same political family on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking side. For this reason, you can assume that they spoke mainly on behalf of that family and not on behalf of the government they belong to, otherwise they would not have brought it as one group. It is not clear to me to what extent the title was added by the newspaper, but it is not illogical that it should be mentioned. The document also essentially concerned a theme at European level, in which Belgium does not only decide. As I have said in my written reply, you state that you do not like the answer, that can happen. I have no opinion on the content of the document in the light of that party political perspective. If I do share my opinion, I can answer questions here about any party congress of majority parties and perhaps even parties that are not part of the majority. I suppose it is not forbidden for politicians to have political opinions. Having said that, it is a common practice for ministers to ask questions about cases in which they have to take decisions directly, for example at the Council of Ministers, for them to be reserved and restricted in the expression of their personal views. Anyone who anticipates decisions too much makes it difficult for the relevant ministers to take positions. The same applies to the publication of opinion papers. When problems arise, these problems are initially raised within the government with the members of the government concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, taking your last sentence, I hope that you have actually addressed the ministers concerned in a concrete and individual way. What they have done is rather inappropriate and does not benefit the proper functioning of your government. I checked if the name Conner Rousseau was in the play, but that was not the case, nor was the name Paul Magnette. However, it contains the names of your ministers, Mr Dermagne, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Kitir and Mr Dermine, and the document is signed with their government and ministerial title. I like the fact that politicians express opinions. You say it makes sense for politicians to have political opinions. Of course it makes sense. However, for the purity of the political debate, ministerial titles are best not used presumptuously. That is what is indeed the case here. You say that it is logical that this should be seen as a socialist, because it is about European politics and that it should be decided at European level. No, Prime Minister, you are sitting there at the table. That's not happening above our heads. You and your government are effectively the actor there. You're sitting there at the table. So this is not about a debate on which we cannot weigh and on which the Socialists can honk. No, this is about the essence of the budgetary policy that will be pursued over the coming years and decades. The Commission must come up with proposals to put that right. I'm still a little hungry. Prime Minister, I fear that you miss the opportunity to set your foot and give a more punitive signal to your ministers that they are best working as a team and that if they want to set up their own party communication, they should not do so with their ministerial title.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u9	Prime Minister, the conflict in Ukraine not only causes countless human lives to be lost there, but can also have several major consequences for us. Some of them are at the level of cybersecurity, more specifically the antivirus program Kaspersky. Kaspersky is a Russian company. We know that several countries have already warned about this company, starting with the Netherlands, soon thereafter followed by Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the United States. That's why I have the following questions. Do federal governments, Cabinets, public administrations, consultants and other connected services use the Kaspersky programme? Does the federal government not recommend the internal use of the programme or does it intend to ban it? Is that being checked at all? According to the newspaper De Morgen, an opinion is being prepared at the CCB, but the work has been going on for three months and the opinion has not yet been published. What is the view of the CCB, which falls under your Chancellery? What will you do to inform the general public about possible security risks? The programme is also used by critical infrastructures and important companies. That leads me seamlessly to my second question, which is linked to the first, about the Secure Equipment Act of 2021. A law has been launched in the United States, which proactively establishes a list of so-called high-risk suppliers. That might not be a bad thing for us either, because every week we read about an incident in the newspaper, where either the army or someone in the government or a public service is using a company that we can ask a number of questions about cybersecurity. I am thinking, for example, of the more than 300 routers of the Huawei brand, which were used by the army until very recently. I'm thinking of the security cameras of the Hikvision brand, which were used in Kortrijk and other places. We also talked about Kaspersky. That's why I have the following questions for you. Do you think it would be a good thing, should the security services, both the ADIV and the OCAD and the VSSE, compile such a list of foreign high-risk suppliers? Would it be appropriate to share that list with the broad population? Finally, what steps are being taken today and what have already been taken to assess the security of the material used in cybersecurity? With which suppliers are the security services, the military and the federal government not currently doing business because of security risks? If possible, I would like to have a breakdown by country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u10	There is no record of the IT products used in the various administrations, including Kaspersky's programmes. It is right that a number of countries should warn against the potential dangers and even ban their use. Those countries often argue that these products could be used to spy on customers. Other countries do not go that far, but rather call for caution. These countries do not deny that Kaspersky programmes can be deployed for different purposes, but also state that there is no evidence to support them. Also, the Cybersecurity Centre does not currently have objective technical information that shows that Kaspersky products would be unreliable. Kaspersky is one of the few security companies that have built transpancy centers in different countries. Those centres are accessible to researchers who want to access the source code of the products and who want to check how Kaspersky keeps track of his customers' data. However, the CCB supports the claim that the use of security products such as antivirus software always poses a security risk in view of its nature. Such software is naturally designed to have a lot of privileges on the IT system so that it could perform its intended functionality. If an antivirus solution is used incorrectly, it can penetrate very deeply into the system. However, this applies to the antivirus products of all suppliers. Given the changed geopolitical security situation, it is of course important to take all the necessary precautions. In case of doubt about the reliability or independence of a company, virus security software poses a particular risk to the IT infrastructure. In addition, Russia's isolation on the international stage can have an impact on Russian companies' ability to provide updates for their products and services and keep them up-to-date. Furthermore, in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 28 April, the European Union imposed additional economic sanctions on Russia in connection with public procurement. This bans the award or continuation of a public contract or concession agreement with an economic operator associated with Russia whose estimated value is equal to or above the threshold for European publication. The prohibition shall apply to all contracts awarded as from 9 April. For public contracts and concessions awarded before that date, the performance may continue until 10 October 2022. In some specific cases, it is possible to deviate from this. At national level, these sanctions have already been extended to stakeholders through the Commission on Public Procurement. At present, every effort is being made to implement these sanctions legally correctly in our country. The ambition is to end all ongoing contracts with organisations associated with Russia by the end of September and to have the exception procedure legally regulated. Of course, the necessary attention should be paid to replacing essential elements of the security infrastructure, such as antivirus programmes. It must be carefully planned and implemented. Simply deconnecting antivirus protection inevitably leads to very high security risks. The general public is not immediately a potential target for the Russian state. It is especially important for them to remain assured of proper support from the company. The CCB closely monitors all developments and, if new information becomes available, will ensure communication through the known channels. With regard to your more general question to compile a list of all foreign suppliers to be considered as high risk, it is first necessary to consider the legal framework within which this can be done. On 1 June 2022, the various governments of our country reached a cooperation agreement on the development of a screening mechanism for foreign investment in sensitive sectors relevant to public policy and security or strategic interests. An interfederal screening committee will be the central body that will examine foreign investments representing a share of more than 10% or 25% of the company's shares, depending on the area in which one invests. In parallel, at the request of the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security, a project group was recently set up in the Coordination Committee on Information and Security, which examines how security considerations can be taken into account in public procurement. Whether this can or should lead to an exhaustive list of blacklists of products or suppliers will still have to be cleared out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u11	Prime Minister, I hear you saying that there is no register in our country. In some countries, they do. I believe that everything about state security has been treated fairly stepmotherly here for some time now. You have always said that you want Belgium to be one of the top countries in terms of cyber security. I wonder, then, if the Netherlands, Germany, France and the United Kingdom warn against using Kaspersky, how come they do not warn about this? There's a risk. I quote from an interview with Eugene Kaspersky, the developer of that software, that appeared in The Guardian. The article dates back to 2017, before there was a war in Ukraine. He says, "Trust is essential in cyber security. Trust is crucial because of the nature of antivirus programs, which must be given total access to the user's computer and the ability to check back with a central server. The most important thing when using an antivirus is confidence, confidence in the creator and confidence in the system behind it. Well, do we trust Putin? I don't think so. I therefore find it particularly regrettable that we are not following our neighbouring countries. For some time now, I have the feeling that people are waiting here until things are on fire before they wake up and draw the right conclusions. That is why I ask you to take action, to ask the various services in our country that may be using this software, to stop doing so. Then I'll give you a message from the internal kitchen. From the moment I saw other countries warning, I called the N-VA director to say that we can't use Kaspersky on our laptops anymore. You say that one cannot de-install an anti-virus program overnight, because it poses safety risks. Of course that's right. Meanwhile, the 500 laptops of the N-VA today use another program. So it's possible. So we're waiting for a unit of command. We are waiting for a Cyber Security Minister, for which I have been advocating for a long time. It is only in this way that we can be sure that this dossier will be taken into account and that every possible safety problem will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u12	Prime Minister, I will not ask you what you expect from the conciliation committee on 6 May. Maybe we can give the answer ourselves. The other question remains topical. We're done with corona now, but maybe that's just for a little while. We have to take that into account. Hope brings life, but caution might be even more. Journalist Luc Pauwels has written a book, journalism in times of fake news. In it, he gives the media a firm kick in the ass. He noted that there was a very one-sided approach to the cover-up of communication and news gathering around corona. A tunnel vision has been created. According to Mr Pauwels, a very respected member of the press, one of the reasons is the lack of diversity in the voices that were addressed. He gives an explicit example of the corona crisis, in which only a small wreath of experts appeared and was repeatedly brought before the screen. Those same experts were also prominent members of the group of people who advised your government. I do not want to question the expertise of those people, but I want to question the one-sidedness of the group that was consulted. Parliament has set a good example of the broadening of that scope in the hearings we have organised on compulsory vaccination. I attended them with great interest, in corona times still digitally. A very broad group of experts has been discussed. Some people I've never heard of. They turned out to be very important in their field of expertise, while apparently they were never involved in the discussions that had to support the policy. Of course, it is impossible to involve everyone in this. In addition, I do not miss the expertise of those who have been consulted. Finally, it is important that you rely on experts when shaping policies. How do you evaluate, against the backdrop of self-criticism within the press, the approach to using the input of experts by your government in the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u13	Prime Minister, I have given a more specific question, partly because it concerns my municipality of Koksijde, on the beautiful Flemish coast, where many people have a second stay. During the corona pandemic, the Consultation Committee decided in the federal phase that people were no longer allowed to go to their second residence. So she made a restraining order on her property. There are quite a few good lawyers living in our municipality and they have gone to court against this decision. They were right at first instance. It was stated that what happened there was not correct because at the same time municipal taxes were also payable. The judge has decided that the municipality must repay the taxes to the owners of second residences. That is quite strange because it was not the municipality that forbade the owners to go to their second home. That was a federal decision in the federal phase. The lawyer in me comes up and wants to know exactly what that's like. What's your opinion on that? This can have particularly far-reaching consequences. It concerns not only people with a second stay on the coast but throughout the country, but also any event that has been cancelled by enlargement. One could go to court to claim compensation, because one could not allow his event to continue, because the federal government had decided that it should not. So this is something that is concrete and local, but can also be very far-reaching at the same time. I also asked the Minister of Finance about this, but he avoided my question rather than answered it. I hope to get some more answers from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u14	Prime Minister, I have a question about the readiness of our country and the world to a possible new pandemic. This question arises from the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response report, the conclusion of which is very clear, but also special, namely that the world is less prepared for a new pandemic than in 2019, especially as a result of the difficult economic situation in which many countries have landed. There was a meeting of the WHO Member States in Geneva. I would like to hear from you what attitude our country has taken there. What are the answers to the report that was published? How will you ensure that we are working on this readiness globally, but certainly also in our country? After all, many of the recommendations of the special co-vid committee have not yet been followed. Furthermore, I would also like to get a response to what is happening around the strategic stock. Are we better prepared today than the last two years? If not, what will you do to protect our citizens and our health?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u15	Mr De Roover, if you thought that the range of experts given the floor during the covid crisis was limited, then we have a different definition of 'limited'. I had the impression that every week there was a new virologist, a new epidemiologist, and it was a good thing. It is the role of the press to make a multitude of voices heard. As far as the experts we used as government are concerned, it was not just one person. There were people who had the role of spokesperson, others were part of the GEMS, an institution that is multidisciplinaryly composed. In other countries, the number of experts consulted and allowed to speak was much more limited. In our country there were no restrictions on permitted communication either. In other countries agreements were made on who was the government's expert and who was allowed to speak on behalf of the government. And that's it. With us, I've seen a lot of experts commenting on government decisions. When that happened, sometimes I had to bite my tongue. In retrospect, that was a good thing. Experts should have the opportunity to comment on government decisions, even if the government has based itself on their opinions. You also say that the committee was a model, because there were a number of unknown names. However, there were also known names which I wonder how great their knowledge of epidemiology is. Some are eminent religious scholars. Does that mean they have a great knowledge of how to handle a pandemic? I have questions about that, but I'm always willing to listen to the knowledge they can teach. Mr. De Roover, you should distinguish between diversity and pertinence. A diverse panel is not necessarily a pertinent panel. It is not because the panel is diverse that members can contribute to the discussion. I'm not saying everything went perfectly during the pandemic. You never heard me say that. We were confronted with something we had never seen. We have tried, with all the members of the Consultation Committee, to use the expertise available. I'm proud of the expertise we've used. The expertise used has allowed us to manage this pandemic in a reasonable way, with a constant policy, not too many jojos compared to other countries, relatively few difficulties, for example very extensive demonstrations, which we have seen in other countries much more than in our country. So perhaps you should clarify your question. What do you mean, for example, by the amount of experts and what do you mean by the question of whether different opinions have been discussed? If your reasoning is that people who make pertinent scientific lies, or opinions that are absolutely not scientifically substantiated, should be discussed more extensively in the debate, then I do not agree with that. I do not want to say that these opinions should be silenced or censorship applied to those opinions, because everyone must be able to speak freely. However, as a government, we have based ourselves on people with a scientific basis and people who express an opinion on the basis of research. That happened sometimes with the necessary caveats. Enough experts have said, based on the knowledge at the time, which direction it went. Eventually it went in a different direction because there were new facts. When the facts change, you change your mind . I believe that the government has used sufficient diversity. Whether the media did that is another question. You mention Mr Pauwels' book, but I do not know whether Mr Pauwels is talking about the government or the media. I can't judge the media. I can say that we have never denied the experts we consulted access to the media. In fact, they have made more than sufficient use of it, and I think that is a good thing. Mr Loones, you asked a question about Koksijde's tax regulations. As a federal government, we are not directly involved in the verdict you describe. It concerns the application of a tax regulation for which the municipality is autonomously competent. You make it appear that the federal government has a form of liability in it, but that would only be the case if we had acted wrongly. The covid measures were taken within the legal framework. More generally, I do not know whether this also applies specifically to the mayor of Koksijde. I understood their concerns, which were of public order. They did not know how to deal with traffic flows or personal flows. I assume that they then argued for a general principle of caution. In a further phase we have better understood how we could deal with corona. I have always advocated access to a stay, whether it be a first or a second stay. That seems to me to be the logic itself. Mrs Depoorter, you raise the general concern that after the worst of the coronapandemic, we should not think that the world or the pandemic is now better protected from a pandemic than before. I understand that concern. It's not because we've endured one pandemic that suddenly we'd be better protected. It is also a good thing that the WTO is holding intensive consultations on this issue. We are recovering economically from corona, but in the meantime, of course, there have been additional blows. We are committed to a multilateral approach to see how we can support each other, not only by ensuring that vaccination efforts can be further extended in all countries, but also by looking at how we can be more resilient. To this end, the Covid Focal Point system has been established, together with the Länder, to ensure that we can do sufficient monitoring. Today we have a number of systems that we didn't have before. When the first cases of the monkey pox virus surfaced a few weeks ago, we quickly managed to trace it to its origin. We were able to take action very quickly within Belgium and other countries within Europe. If that had happened five years ago, we wouldn't have had that opportunity. So we've developed a lot of systems based on corona. This does not mean, however, that we can give 100 % guarantee that we are protected from any pandemic. Security doesn't exist in that kind of event. We are better protected today from a pandemic similar to the corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u16	You may say that not everything went perfectly, but I haven't really heard from you how it might do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u17	You asked a question about the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u18	I asked how you evaluate the approach, and you sounded quite satisfied with yourself. You're unraveling that the virologists you advised were allowed to come on TV. That is just a point on which clearer agreements could be made with virologists and government advisers. It caused misunderstandings from time to time, but well, that is another matter. I thought it was rather striking what you said about the discussion in the committee hearings. Firstly, speakers who have been added to the list, not by our group, but that does not play a role, and whose scientific competence can be questioned, are extremely helpful. They have had no impact in the formation of thought. In fact, I think that is the way to get along with people like that: not by giving the impression that you are not afraid to give them the floor, but by answering them. And that's what happened there. If you now give the impression that my question is intended to give people too broad a job, then that is obviously not true. You are now saying that there were also specialists in church right in between - I think we know who we're talking about. Well, that person has made a very thorough argument about fundamental rights. That is precisely the point. In the event of a virological crisis, you have been advised very unilaterally by people who have not sufficiently highlighted the broad societal impact. I am talking about the economic impact, but also about the broad social impact and the impact on well-being. The fact that you did not pay sufficient attention to fundamental rights in this policy has been denounced in Parliament almost every week. That's what Rik Torfs said about him, because he's been dealt with in a very correct and very transparent way. I don't know if he learned that from ecclesiastical law, but I don't care about the rest. You have said that we have never had such a crisis before, and that is why it did not work out perfectly. I understand that, but when I asked you, looking back on the past two years, how you evaluate the approach of your government to the corona crisis, I heard you react very defensively, with an undertones of: I am actually very happy when I compare it with other countries. Moreover, I do not think that we should make comparisons with other countries for some statistics. There are some, rather painful ones, where unfortunately we have shaved high peaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u19	I would do the same if I were you, and try to answer my question as if it were a purely municipal budget discussion. My intention was that this was definitely on your radar. I am convinced that this is the case. It is, of course, politically and communicatively useful to refer to the fact that several people are arguing for something. But there is also a legal reality in which one has to look at who decides. This was a federal phase, so it was, of course, a federal decision. We shall see what the appeal procedure produces. They are judges who will have to judge and follow it closely. I assume that you will also follow it, because it may become important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u20	Prime Minister, I understand the tone of your answer. I also understand that forgetting this pandemic is best for your government. 'Cause a lot of things went wrong after all. You can laugh at that, but you're laughing away the problems you've created. You can see for yourself that the answer you gave to Mr De Roover about the experts was actually about a circle of academic friends who knew each other very well from the beginning and who were very clearly aligned. What exactly is science? Science is research, science is critical of each other's judgment, and then making decisions. That's exactly what didn't happen in this coronapandemic. You have had advisors who have examined and validated certain tests in their own lab. You used swaps, it was in the news last week, you went through toxicological tests when they were already stuck in people's nose, you stored medication in hangars where you wouldn't store flowers, and you have the strategic stock that you are in trouble with today, you haven't said anything about it. The rotating strategic stock that the special covid committee has offered you, not much of that has come into the house. When you talk about preparing for a next pandemic or crisis, you say that it may be something else and that we cannot really be prepared for it. No, Minister. As far as monkey pox is concerned, you were right: you were able to determine the genome faster and share data, but that's where it stops. You have been able to order a vaccine for 625 care providers. 625, not anymore. You have no therapy for the people who might get into trouble because of the monkey pox. You are not prepared, and you could have done that by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u21	Mr Prime Minister, you know that budgetary control was approved this morning, but I thought it important to have an exchange of views with you on this, given the context we are facing and the fact that, unfortunately, we rarely have the chance to do so. When it comes to the budget, we are referred to the Secretary of State, and it seems to me that you have some responsibility for that. I'm making the scene. The figures from the European Commission show that Belgium has almost the worst budget in the whole of the European Union, with the exception of Malta. This was repeated this morning by the National Bank of Belgium. The International Monetary Fund says that Belgium is not only among the worst performing countries in Europe, but also among the worst students internationally. Belgium will have one of the most dramatic budget deficits of all industrialized countries, also worse than the United States, namely a massive budget deficit of more than 5%. The National Bank of Belgium is literally talking about an unsustainable situation with regard to the budget. According to the National Bank of Belgium, the plans with which you come to the table are untenable. It also says that the government can not only hide behind the corona crisis and the war in Ukraine, but that the misery lies in the structural errors in the system. They need to be dealt with in a structural way. There have been mitigating circumstances during the crises, but they do not explain why, according to the IMF, the European Commission and the National Bank of Belgium, you are sitting on the worst budgets of the world. The Court of Auditors also stated in Parliament that your budget is unsustainable and that it cannot go on like this. The Federal Debt Agency was a guest on our committee. It was assumed that you are paying some EUR 6 billion interest charges on the huge public debt today. The Secretary of State for the Budget did say that these charges would increase to EUR 9 billion as a result of rising interest rates, but the Belgian Debt Agency said they would increase to more than EUR 10 billion. As a result of your structural undersized policy, 4 billion euros of additional interest payments are added over a number of years. I sincerely ask myself a number of questions about this, Mr Prime Minister. In budgetary jargon there is talk of drawing up and controlling budgets, but where has that control gone? I don't see anything being checked. The only thing that has happened is that additional expenditure is recorded in the tables. However, nothing has been checked. I am referring to the control of a budget which ensures that all expenditure is kept under control. You didn't. There is now a huge amount of talk about your summer deal, the seven yards that will be settled in the summer or after the summer. Shouldn't that have happened during budgetary control? This is because budgetary control is necessary to check your coalition agreement against the figures and intervene where necessary. Why didn't you? Why did you not make budgetary control an opportunity to intervene? I particularly like the debates with her, but I am questioning the political weight of your Secretary of State for the Budget. I notice that she communicates very voluntaristically in the media. However, when I see the results in the tables and the texts we receive, I can only see that the impact of her words at the government table does not seem to be enormous. To what extent do you commit yourself to increasing this specific weight, not only of Mrs De Bleeker but also of the budget? What are you aiming for? What's your point on the horizon? Where do you wish to end? At first we heard that this government wanted to close the legislature with a deficit of 3%. All the figures from European and international bodies say that you will be lucky if you meet a deficit of 5%, just like the National Bank this morning. What are you aiming for? It would be good to know that, not only to be able to deal with this budget debate with a little more knowledge, but also to get an idea of what you intend to do in the coming summer months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u22	Fortunately, Prime Minister, the N-VA is still here, because we are the only party concerned about the budget deficit. That's what this session shows. I am not going to repeat Mr Loones's words, of course, but I would like to add something. The National Bank's report also takes into account inflation. Indeed, there is a deficit of 5%, but if there is a recession, that deficit would reach 7%. I have noticed that we have heard an opposition vote, which indicated that what the National Bank of Belgium said was alarming and completely correct. It seemed to come from the N-VA, but it was Mrs. De Bleeker who gave it away. She fully agreed with the National Bank of Belgium. That is, of course, a serious signal to your government. That confirms what Mr Loones says, namely that Mrs De Bleeker feels particularly bad in your government. She means well, but her voice doesn't weigh. She is your party mate and therefore deserves your support in this matter. What is very important is that the National Bank has added to the above that the index mechanism is likely to seriously weaken our competitive position. Labour costs for 2022 and 2023 increase by 11%. That would be almost 5% more than in neighbouring countries. The index mechanism has absolute advantages, but this is an aspect that we can spare as a toothache. It is likely to have an effect on employment. In the previous government, you and we have made sure that the law on competitiveness has been updated. Some of your coalition partners are of the opinion that we should return to that. I even have the impression that additional initiatives need to be taken to ensure that we do not unload the train from the surrounding countries. You have just referred to other countries and made the comparison with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u23	Mr Loones, Mr De Roover, thank you for your questions. The budgetary pathways are one of the priority themes that we will examine in the coming period. The announced interest rate increase is indeed an element that certainly plays a part. As far as the labour market and pensions are concerned, we in the government have agreed to deal with these issues as a matter of priority, at the request of the relevant ministers who have been given an effective mandate to do so. For the budget, I can refer to the Secretary of State for the Budget for the more technical approach. The same applies to the Court of Auditors' report, which was discussed in the Finance Committee. The figures are, of course, well known. According to the European Commission's forecast, the nominal balance in Belgium will be 4,4% in the absence of any change in policy in 2023. The government debt would be 107,6% of gross domestic product. We are now preparing for the budget for 2023. By the way, technical bilateral meetings are scheduled between now and 24 June 2022. The report of the Monitoring Committee is expected on 14 July. For the summer recess, the aim is to stabilise the implementation of the fixed effort, i.e. 0.2 % per year. It will be checked whether the firm budgetary effort for 2023 has been fully completed. The firm effort is about measures that we agreed on at the beginning of the reigning period and where there was a growth path. In addition, there is also a variable effort. Within the government, we will have a discussion on the distribution of measures. As is often the case and as mentioned in the government agreement, it concerns a third expenditure, a third income and a third so-called miscellaneous. I cannot yet say anything about the content or direction of these measures. We will also have a first discussion before the summer on possible priority questions for additional resources. As in the case of the 2022 budget, such questions will in any case have to be covered by compensatory budgetary measures with a structural impact. On spending reviews we also agreed with the government to give a state of play on the ongoing spending reviews before the summer recess and to select new spending reviews. After the summer recess, discussions on budget preparation will continue and be concluded. In doing so, we are in the last straight line towards the State of the Union, so that the draft budget could be submitted to the European Commission by 14 October at the latest. I have now replied in general terms. If you would like more details, you can, of course, discuss this with the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u24	Prime Minister, I am glad to have asked the questions, because I have learned a few lessons. At the same time, I have also seen a number of things confirmed and I remain left with a whole series of questions. Perhaps we will have a chance to discuss this further at the plenary session of 23 June. On this point, we hope that you will be present when we debate budgetary control. We also hope that you will leave the debate not only to Mrs De Bleeker, but also to take responsibility for your figures. I'm going to go into a few more things. Firstly, you say that the international context is well known and that you will examine the figures further. However, many of these figures have been known for a long time, they are not new. That is why I wonder why they were undersized in budgetary control. Moreover, the budget has not yet been voted on in plenary. So even today, you can change things about that. The proof is that we voted on a whole series of government amendments this morning. So you can update your figures, you did that this morning. Here is the call to show that honesty to the citizens, so that they know what is happening with their taxpayers' money and what is the situation in the budget. Updating those figures against the plenary can be perfect. Secondly, when it comes to the ambitions of labour market reforms and pensions, you say that you have decided to deal with them as a matter of priority. That's special, isn't it? When you have to do that, that is, of course, during budgetary control. That was just my question. Budgetary control is intended to control and control the budget and to see who does or does not keep its promises. I note that the payback effects of labour market policy are well recorded in the budget, but the measures to achieve these effects are nowhere to be seen. On the contrary, we come into the situation where the mini-work deal is seen as the parameter to measure the success of your government's labour market policy. I was particularly pleased to hear that Mr Lachaert, your party chairman, said this morning that more is needed, that there should be an additional work deal. I trust that he has said this with full knowledge and support from you and that you will not leave the Chamber this summer with the confirmation of a mini-work deal, which has been decided three times in the meantime, but that additional measures will indeed be taken. If this is not the case, then it is appropriate to remove these revenue effects from the budget. Third. I was very pleased to hear that you are not only saying for the fixed effort of 0.2 % that it will be retained, but that you want it to be very specific, with figures and measures, before the recess. That is a very important political statement. It means de facto that more will have to be done than, for example, the mini-work deal, that measures will have to be taken in the area of pensions and so on. There I thank you for your answer and I wish you every support and success in making these efforts. Something where I stay more hungry is the variable effort. Your coalition agreement provides for a firm effort and, in view of the economic situation, a variable effort. It is good that you confirm that the latter will happen, but you have not yet said how high you aim. You merely said that there would be a debate on this before the recess. That's what I'm afraid of. Perhaps you will remember that last summer I had a question for you in plenary. I warned you that with so many socialists in the government, and I am counting on the ecologists and some of the liberals, you will start as early as possible with the budget for the next year. The later you start, the more you're put in the bag. Time is ticking to your disadvantage. So your ambitions around the variable effort do not click, but I would like to call on you to take that as an important yard and make decisions about it. I'll give you another tip. Governor Wunsch of the National Bank indicated that the fiscal effort should actually be 0.5 % or 0.6% to stabilise the debt. This means that you should make a variable effort of about 0.4%, which is quite coincidentally also the arrangement in your coalition agreement. So you only have to comply with your own government agreement, where you see a sum of variable efforts as the years of the legislature pass. You should therefore make an effort of at least EUR 3 billion, as was the case last year. You announced that at the time, when you only made an effort of 2 billion, and actually only a few hundred million. I have also learned a lot about spending reviews. You said that there should be a state of affairs before the recess. That is a stronger commitment than what I had heard from Mrs De Bleeker. I would also like to bring something specific to your attention here. For 2023 there is a spending review on the agenda for Fedasil. Currently, the data is requested to see when such a spending review can be organised usefully. It makes sense that this is happening. I would nevertheless like to call on you to carry out that specific review as soon as possible. In the media today, we were right to read the analysis that Mr Mahdi's reception policy is failing. That is not only a political decision but also a judicial decision since today. The judge in Brussels not only refers to Fedasil, but considers Mr Mahdi personally responsible for the fact that several asylum seekers have to sleep in the streets. Those seem to me to be sufficient reasons to be concerned about that, especially with regard to the budget. A budget of about EUR 400 million has been launched. In the meantime, the cost has been over EUR 600 million a year and even then people have to sleep on the streets. That's what's happening under your government now. It was not even the case during the major European asylum crisis. I therefore ask you to carry out that specific spending review as soon as possible. This is important for your government's budgetary ambitions, but it is also important for the humanitarian ambitions, because that is where things are going badly wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u25	Prime Minister, you said you would deal with these problems. Literally, you said you'd deal with them in the coming period. What has gone wrong in the past period? After all, the problems have not been solved. Almost every report is alarming, and it has been for months. Anyone with any knowledge of international institutions up to the National Bank will say the same. I am also surprised that you did not mention this threatening gap in competitiveness. According to the National Bank, there is a 5 percent gap with neighbouring countries. The policy of the previous government led by Prime Minister Michel, which we conducted together, was aimed inter alia at strengthening competitiveness and reducing the wage gap with neighbouring countries. Measures have been taken, but if you ask questions about them now, you will be silent about them in all languages, as if they did not exist. I assume you will address this problem in the coming period. You also dropped the term "priority treatment." I looked this up fast in the Wiktionary. I quote: 'Prioritair is derived from French and has the meaning taking precedence or getting it.' So what priority has been given to this problem? You're just moving it forward to the future. In 2013, the Centre for Read Research had the word tested as a priority. It appeared that 77 percent of the Dutch and 99 percent of the Flemings know that word. I have the impression that that remaining 1% is in your government and that you do not really know what the word 'priority' means. So that word does not mean that you come here every month to say that you will deal with it in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u26	Prime Minister, the question of purchasing power remains very topical. I must not draw you the suffering of many workers who can no longer pay their rent and bills. What will your government do? As far as travel costs are concerned, we are still waiting for an answer from you. Many workers rightly demand that the travel allowance be increased. Not to get rich but to be able to pay what their car costs to go to work – we don't talk about leisure here. You told us that a decision must be taken by the social partners. There was no agreement, so it's up to you to decide. If I understood correctly, your decision would be to propose to increase from 37 cents to 40 cents per kilometer on a voluntary basis for the employer, with a challenge to the key. There is a problem because if it is on a voluntary basis, I do not think that thousands of employers will want to increase the compensation for workers. Do you think that many people will want to apply this in companies? Do you not think that it is in contradiction with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, which has clearly stated that the compensation of costs specific to the employer is an obligation on its part? But you're talking about a voluntary base here. With regard to next Monday's demonstration, I can tell you that there will be a lot of people. Some of your majority partners say that action should be taken. The main point of this event is the revision of the binding law of 1996, the law "0.4 per cent". Some of your partners say that this law needs to be reviewed, that this standard needs to be made indicative, and that the reforms introduced in 2017 need to be reconsidered. What will be Vivaldi's decision? Will you listen to the resistance of the workers? You answered in plenary that you were not very sensitive to this question. Since then, some of your majority partners have asked you to act. Do you, however, remain in your position of not doing anything about the 1996 Act? Or, given the openness within Vivaldi, do you intend to discuss it? In this case, this is part of a "great deal" or thousands of mini agreements. I don't know; it's your negotiating technique. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to know whether the case is closed, in which case the 1996 Act will not be affected. Or is there a discussion within Vivaldi to reopen this file? I thank you for your answers, which I am sure will satisfy me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u27	Mr Hedebouw, thank you for making a second attempt to pry a reply from the Prime Minister on the amended law of 1996. Maybe you're more successful than I was before. Prime Minister, it is said about the employment deal that Minister Dermagne is failing. That is what Mr Lachaert said, who is probably sometimes informed by you about the state of play. On the weekend you may be Open Vld'er and in the week Prime Minister and perhaps Mr Lachaert will have been informed by you last weekend that Minister Dermagne is making a bit of trouble about the employment deal, which has come back from the social dialogue. You were hoping to get rid of it that way. There is certainly something wrong with the terminology, because it is about a job deal. Every specialist in this field has said that the work deal at best is the very first notes of what should actually be a symphony, to say it anyway in terms of Vivaldi. Mr Lachaert has said in his words that we can follow him very often, just as we can very often follow the words of Secretary of State De Bleeker that there is a need for a second work deal. In fact, he says that a real work deal is needed and that something seriously needs to come on the table after what is now just an amuse-gueule. Anyway, it's already gone wrong with that job deal, which is why I'm asking. What about that? Are you expecting something? When can we expect something? After all, we have talked very often about the employment rate of 80%, so a little work can be done on this, although the answer may be that this is a priority and that you will deal with it in the coming period. I also have a question about the expert group. I have nothing against experts, on the contrary, but I do not like when they have to serve as a pubess to hide the incompetence of the government, because that is, of course, what is happening. The government does not know which direction it intends to take and perhaps the experts will offer it a solution. You know that this will not be the case, because it is about political choices and the experts will not make them. Your trick to buy some time failed, because I read that there would be a first report. Is that right? Are we expecting it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? What does it say? Mr Wunsch spoke on behalf of the National Bank and was part of the expert group. I assume he does not speak with a split tongue when he, as spokesman for the National Bank, notes that the money is gone and that the situation is untenable. Then he probably won't say in that first report, as co-author, that everything is going well. When do we get the first report? When will you inform us about this? Or maybe you can tell me what's in it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, I will say it a little more explicitly. It would be nice if we had the scoop and you didn't go straight to the press. The tone is always like this, in all governments, we don't have to be faint about it, but with your government it happens a little more often. We have to keep reading the papers to know what you're up to. It would be nice if the experts' report were presented here in Parliament and not at some press conference, where everyone is present except Members of Parliament. Would you not find it a democratic approach to immediately and first bring the information to Parliament's attention instead of letting your communicative spindoctors work on it? My second question is a motivational question. What about the motivation of all your cabinet employees? There are over 800 of them working for your federal government. Do they actually find it pleasurable that, when it comes to something interesting at last, they should not talk immediately and look at other people who are supposed to have more expertise than they do, especially in what direction we are going with which economic policies and which reforms should be on the side? I can imagine that doesn't work very motivatingly for all those employees. I'd like to hear your analysis on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u29	Mr Loones, as I just said to Mr De Roover, sometimes interesting questions are asked. In plenary, I have answered questions about purchasing power on a number of occasions, almost weekly. That seems logical to me, as there is a great deal of concern about this. I have very often referred to the economic context we are facing, including the corona crisis, the war in Ukraine, the impact of commodity prices, high inflation rates across Europe, even higher in some countries than in others. In December 2021 we had an inflation rate of 5.7 % and in May 2022 it was 8.97 %. Those are extremely high figures. I have always stressed that we have a special system in our country, namely the system of automatic indexation of benefits, wages and pensions. As a result, families are largely protected against loss of purchasing power as a result of high inflation. For example, the spillover index has been exceeded four times in the past year. By the way, Mathias Cormann of the OECD stated this morning in his report that the Belgian system, which includes a diptych of automatic indexation and the 1996 amended law which strikes a balance between purchasing power and competitiveness, is actually a good system. It is, of course, a good system if we maintain the balance and if we ensure not only today's purchasing power but also tomorrow's. Competitiveness is tomorrow's purchasing power. Those who do not respect that may not have much to say about purchasing power tomorrow, as we will no longer be able to create jobs in our country. Our country can be very badly hit in terms of international competition. Our system, which has been analysed several times, offers a very important degree of protection compared to loss of purchasing power. Of course, we did not stop there. Other countries are still discussing possible measures to increase wages and benefits, but we do so automatically. In addition, we have taken other measures, such as the reduction of energy bills of more than 2.6 billion this year, a piece of tax shift included in the previous budget, the increase in minimum wages on 1 April and the increase in the lowest benefits. In addition, a budget of 30 million was made available to the Group of Ten in the context of interventions in the increased transport costs for workers. Since the social partners did not reach an agreement, last week we decided on how to use that budget for the benefit of workers who use their cars for work trips. There are also preparations under poverty plans. We have put the expert group, which is chaired by the Governor of the National Bank, to work on making recommendations on purchasing power and competitiveness. I don't think it's so unusual for the government to use external expertise. The decision-making process is, of course, ours, which makes sense. At a time like this, it's useful to have academics do the right analysis. They look at where the protection works and where it is insufficient, what the impact of the measures we have taken so far. They are examining whether the measures should be maintained, under what conditions, or should be adjusted, and whether additional elements can require us to take decisions. That the political decision is taken by political decision-making and who supports that political decision-making, on the basis of the study work of experts, who will report, I think is a good approach. I would actually prefer to see more use be made of expertise when faced with an unseen situation. Such high inflation is an absolutely unseen situation, while at the same time there are still a lot of vacancies and economic growth is still being recorded. Given this rather unseen economic situation, the use of external expertise is a good idea. The fact that there are different opinions in this group of experts does not seem to me to be unusual or wrong. It will be up to the expert group to indicate the possible traces of thinking and it will be up to the government to make choices in that regard. Tomorrow afternoon there will be a meeting in the nuclear cabinet with the members of the expert group. That's where we'll see what's going to be worked out. I can't anticipate what that expert group will tell you, because he's saving the scoop for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u30	Prime Minister, it seems to me that you are taking a little bit of the parts of this NBB report that are helping you. The same applies to N-VA's colleagues. I've been through the whole report and it contains a lot of interesting things. Pierre Wunsch, who is not a gaucho, says that "the margins of companies are very, very high". So, when we talk about adjustment variables, why don't we ever talk about getting money at these margins? He also said that "more than 60% of companies will have to pass on these cost increases". I recall that salary is not a cost. In any case, they will be able to pass this on to their prices. Finally, he says that next year's recovery will be based on internal consumption. On this side, I think it is a great plea to say that wages are a solution rather than a problem in the situation in which we are at present, obviously taking into account the realities of the sector by sector. That's why there's a common base. Why, therefore, in certain sectors where there are large profits, do we not allow this extra freedom of negotiation? I'm not saying 10% increase linearly for everyone. In this case, what is serious is that a business owner who wants to give more cannot do it. He's being punished. For this reason, trade union organisations are calling for a revision of the 1996 Act. Indexing allows only partial maintenance of purchasing power. The National Bank report also mentions that real wages have decreased by 2%. That should be pointed out. They say we maintain purchasing power, but that's not true. The real wages of workers are reduced by 2%. The mechanisms are known. As you know, following the great reform of Jean-Luc Dehaene, diesel and gasoline do not enter the household basket. Therefore, the increase in fuel prices does not affect the indexation mechanism at all. The mechanisms are there. I'm talking about real wages. I am not talking about disposable income because of course it takes into account the receipts of capital. It's always a little fun during technical debates. It's always the same. "Yes but disposable income..." I'm talking about wages that are, for many people in this country, the only source of income. In this case, there is a 2% decrease in real wages. Prime Minister, I would have hoped you would tell me if there was an opening of the Vivaldi to review the 1996 law. Do I have to interpret that this is not the case? Yet others of your colleagues tell me that we are close to reforming it. I tried to detect something in your house, but I couldn't. I therefore hope that, at the Monday event, there will be many of us to urge you once and for all to reopen this matter. As you know, I have introduced a bill in this area, but we can discuss it together, and I see no problem, if you wish, in turning this proposal into a bill. There is no copyright in this matter. So, serve yourself, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u31	Of course, there's nothing against using experts, which makes sense. In this case, I think it is clear to everyone that they should be used to buy time with the great problems of cohesion that you are facing within your own government about these matters. It is not by chance that until today Mr Lachaert is getting very nervous about it, and yet very much so, to one of your ministers, one of the most important ministers in the government. After this morning, you are in a difficult situation: you are acting as Prime Minister, you must recite Mr Lachaert; you are acting as Open Vld'er, you must call Mr Dermagne to order. Of course, you can't do either and whistle in the dark. The report's gonna be there tomorrow. Mr Loones will certainly discuss what to do about it and how. I should like to make two more important points. Firstly, you say that indexation together with the 1996 law is a good system if balances are preserved. It is also a question of the 1996 amended law. The optimist in me then says that, despite the pressure on the left, you will not touch the combination of the 1996 law and that that question will be pushed away. However, I would like to point out that this good system is working in an unbalanced way. As you know, the energy measures you have taken, and so on, benefit the first two decimals of 20% of those with the lowest incomes. That is a good thing. You also know that the indexing system is a major support, especially in absolute terms, of the high-income people, but it turns out that the intermediate category, the active middle class, is abandoned by your government. Moreover, the same middle class will one day have to pay for today's massive public deficits. That was the second notable thing in your answer: the competitive position is tomorrow's purchasing power. I fully agree with that, but in my question I was just punctual about what the National Bank predicts. Labour costs for this and next year would rise by 11%. That is just 4.8 % more than in neighbouring countries. If our competitive position is tomorrow's purchasing power, that means that in two years, two years under your leadership, 5 percent of tomorrow's purchasing power is lost. So if you say that we have a good balance between indexation and the 1996 amended law, that is not true. No, that's not working right at the moment. It widens the gap between us and neighbouring countries. To quote you, Prime Minister, that is already at tomorrow's purchasing power. Again, with regard to the answer to my question as to what is happening, we are still hungry. The fact that the opposition remains on its hunger until now, but this is a very difficult statement for the people, for the people who have to earn their income through labour. You're formally abandoning them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, there is indeed a whole debate on the content. I will refer to that, but I would also like to refer to the interview with Governor Wunsch this morning in La Libre Belgique, who made it very clear that the index mechanism is not compensating for many people today, who are seeing a lot of purchasing power lost today because indexation works with delay. For some categories, an adjustment will only take place in January. I would, however, like to take a short look at the further handling. I found it interesting to hear that the report is expected for tomorrow. It is a coincidence that tomorrow afternoon we will have a Committee on Finance and Budget, but also a Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions and a Committee on Economics and Consumer Protection. So we have three opportunities in which you or one of you can come here with that report under your arm to present it to Parliament. Wouldn't that be a nice change? I don't just have the image in mind. I believe that it would effectively strengthen the democratic debate. After all, democratic choices must be made. It's obvious. I listened to your answer to Mr Hedebouw's question. I am particularly wondering who will be participating in this demonstration on Monday. It will be interesting to count a number of heads.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u33	Prime Minister, there is a lot to be said about the citizen questioning. I would like to discuss two aspects, the approach and the next steps. I'm going to go back to the discussion I just had. I was incredibly surprised, because we have put dozens of questions to the relevant ministers, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval in Parliament about the questioning of citizens. Among other things, we asked about the approach and the guidance and insisted on access to the process. We also asked if we could invite the competent expert committee in Parliament for additional information. All our requests have been denied. So far, we have not been able to access the machinery of the citizen survey. When I followed your press conference on the citizen survey over the Internet, those experts turned out to be there. How is it possible that Parliament will not be informed about the conduct of such a citizen inquiry and that it will not be able to ask questions, organise hearings or make suggestions? The ministers are not allowed to hear those experts, but when they communicate with the press, Mr Sinardet is in the front row. That's what kills me. Do you think that's a good example and is that the style of your government? Or, in your view, could it be otherwise and will you address your ministers? 19,000 citizens have taken the trouble to register, although not all of them have actually answered the questions. I can imagine that many participants would like to know what is being done with those answers. A final report was promised by the ministers shortly after the summer. However, we are told by Professor Sinardet, one of the experts, that the public contract for the processing of data is in ruins. That report will therefore not be ready after the end of the summer, but at the earliest at the end of the year. Can you not get a feedback from that to the Council of Ministers? Are you not being kept informed that the public contract is going to be completely out of control? All three procedures have failed. People have already struggled to find candidates. At last a candidate had signed on to the assignment, but then he had forgotten to sign the documents. As a result, a new public contract had to be made. Of course, that is not entirely your responsibility, but on the other hand it is. The entire citizen survey has been delayed by more than a year in order to ensure that the preparation could happen properly. It seems that the ministers have failed to do so over and over again. Where does that lead? Anyone who gives committed answers will not know what happens to those answers for months now. What do you think of that? Is that the style of your government? Your government is now announcing that there will be civilian panels in 2023, a few months later. However, your government parties are launching proposals in Parliament, for example, on how quickly a government can be formed, to deal with them in Parliament, while one of the questions on the civil platform was just about that, we will not see the results until January and the closed panels will only take action afterwards. Don't you laugh at people like that? You first ask for their opinion, then do not take that opinion properly and in the meantime just do your own sense without even taking into account the opinion of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, the crisis of the Covid-19 was, in our view, an example of this: the tangles of competences remain hermetic and sclerotic in Belgium; and above all, the citizen does not find himself there and has never participated in the reform of the institutions. A few weeks ago, you launched an online citizen consultation on state reform, which was supposed to "inspire politicians". The government has decided to spend almost two million euros on an Internet survey to which 19,000 citizens have responded - I ask you to confirm this figure. More specifically, there are 2,851 ideas proposed and annotated; 48 groups serving local authorities, associations and schools participated in the consultation. As a reminder, in 2019 there were 8,160,000 registered voters. Minister, are you satisfied with the 19,000 responses? I have the weakness to believe that you would have hoped for more. It is still a record of failure of citizen participation with so few answers, 19,000, and especially in view of the money spent. I received several testimonies from people who tried to complete this consultation, but it was all but obvious. This gives a bit of the impression that it did not really want this consultation, made artificially very complicated. What are you going to do with the collected data? We're talking about January. Are there already emerging trends? Politically, have you ever had a discussion on the subject? The most important thing for me is: what will be the link between this consultation and the measures taken by Vivaldi in relation to a potential future reform of the state?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u35	The online citizen survey was closed last week. During the six-week period there have been around 75,000 contributions from 19,000 different citizens. First of all, I would like to thank them for this. If that number is compared to the total Belgian population, it may seem very little. However, for a participation exercise such as this, this is not a bad result. In fact, Mrs Verlinden explained the process and cost in plenary last week. When we presented the citizens' questioning, we said that we would deal with institutional reform in a different way. We would do it differently than in the past, where it was mainly discussions in backrooms of castles. The discussions were sometimes and sometimes not part of the electoral process. This is where we're gonna listen to people first. I think that's correct. We are there as a state for the citizen. So I think it is appropriate to take the opportunity to ask the citizens how they want to see society organised and how we can best respond to their needs. We shouldn't turn things around. I wonder why it would be wrong to set up a process in which we can listen to people in a nuanced way. A simple yes-no-referendum is indeed easier, but offers only a limited answer to the question of how to organise a society. The way in which citizens are questioned is indeed more complex, and I agree with that. She's asking for more time and commitment. However, we see that there were 75,000 contributions. So one cannot say that there is no interest in it. I am a little disappointed, Mr Hedebouw, that you are focusing on the number of citizens involved in questioning the legitimacy of this exercise. You're almost at the door of my office every week to submit petitions. The last time you submitted a petition signed by 0.9% of the Belgian population, after giving tens of thousands of euros to American companies to advertise on your social networks. When you're running your spending on social media, you might wonder if that's really what political party funding is for. If we compare with other countries the amounts you spend on social networks, you may say it's communication, but it's communication that goes straight into the pockets of an American company. I didn't know you were such a big fan of American companies but maybe you can give us more information about it. The government wants to continue to invest in new approaches to participation in all areas where we believe this can add value. We hope, indeed, to be able to speak with citizens who have a more nuanced vision, who are not in cynicism too often heard. A lot of people are interested in a nuanced and pronounced debate about social issues, without being reduced to slogans or campaigns as you often organize them. For this reason, the government intends to give the Chamber the opportunity to install deliberative panels through access to the National Register, for which citizens can be excluded. I hope that the Chamber will continue the online search by organising such panels. As far as the expert committee is concerned, I refer to the views of the relevant ministers. It is not illogical in itself that in Parliament ministers are primarily accountable, not the experts they call upon. The fact that these experts are present at the press conference does not, in my view, prejudice that. They were also there under the responsibility of the ministers. Parliament is, of course, sovereign in its desire to invite or not invite a person.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u36	Prime Minister, I have to laugh at that last answer. So experts can talk to the press under the responsibility of the ministers, but under the responsibility of the ministers should they not talk to Parliament? That seems to me to be a strange argument. I think it would be appropriate to involve Parliament in such an exercise. I am sorry that you are correcting the actions of your ministers, when you should actually correct them. So be it. I have three more points. Firstly, you say: 'we are there for the citizen; we are listening to the citizen'. You have a very strange way of showing respect for the citizen. You show this by setting up an impossible website and by forcing people to do the impossible to answer. Moreover, those who reply will not hear what will happen to their input for months. You think this is a sign of respect for the committed citizen, but I see it differently. If we really want to narrow the gap and convince people to participate in politics, I think that this is best done in a different way. Secondly, I repeat that it does not immediately seem to me to be a model of respect for the citizen, but it is also not a model of respect for Parliament, which can really play a role in this. You're referring to the civilian panels, but you're not waiting for them. The government parties are just moving on. They do their own thing. They act as if they are going to present a number of issues to these civil panels, but in the meantime these issues are being discussed further in Parliament. I refer to the whole discussion that will be launched in the Constitutional Committee on the procedure for speeding up the formation of a government. I think it's all a little weird. If you ask someone's opinion, it is interesting to really listen to that opinion. You don't seem to be doing that right away. Thirdly, we do indeed have questions about the cost, including EUR 1 million for communication. However, I have more questions about how you spend that money. You manage to spend EUR 1 million on communication on a civil platform, resulting in 19,000 people participating. If this is how taxpayers' money is dealt with, I think this could be more effective. My criticism concerns not only the amount, but above all its ineffective use, the total amateurism. It may have slipped my mind, Prime Minister, but I have not noticed you as a very voluntaristic communicator about the citizen survey, who has called on people to participate. I've missed that. In fact, I have not heard a single minister making very substantial communications, not even the relevant ministers. Minister Clarinval didn't think it was worth communicating that the interview is over. A twitter channel was set up for the future, but Mrs Verlinden does not even follow that. A social media channel has been set up on instagram to spend thousands of euros on communication, but I think it has no more than ten followers, I should look at that again. Prime Minister, when you say big words like the message that we need to be there for the citizen and listen to him or her, you can do so in different ways. However, this has not exactly been a model. You must forgive us, but if your government itself puts it on the market as a big national brainstorm, we are indeed rather disappointed when only 0.2 percent of the target group was actually reached. In fact, we are not alone at that level. Even your own committee of experts has said that the result is inadequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u37	Prime Minister, if you start to repeat the arguments of the PS, it won't work! It's not working! They've been coming with the same arguments for a year and a half! You have to find inspiration otherwise, otherwise it will make us grow even more with such weak arguments, such as that of our spending on Facebook. Moreover, in your case, it is particular, because I have always denounced the double standards of the total over-representation of traditional and governmental parties in the media. In addition, we have just received the figures. According to the latest VRT and VTM figures, you get 19% transmission time on VTM. How much do you think for the PVDA?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u38	Maybe they think I have something to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u39	If I go, so do people. Do you know how much we got at VTM? 0.4%. At the VRT the same numbers. Well, then there's got to be a selection somewhere. We all want our message to come to the citizens, but there should be a little more balance in the rules of the game, and there is no such thing now. There's hundreds of thousands of signatures in there, and there's gonna be more. I'll make an appointment before the vacation. And on the other hand, barely 19,000. However, as a federal state, you had much more resources. That's unfortunate, but I'm curious about the responses to the interview. In fact, we also agree on certain principles, for example that a significant part of the population does not agree with the desire for division. We may also be able to find each other in order to create a dynamic to re-federalise certain powers. If you were to seek a two-thirds majority for this, we would of course be present in Parliament, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u40	Prime Minister, you can't be mirrored by the PS. You must mirror yourself to the PVDA. It goes from evil to worse. You will soon be out of Parliament, if you continue to move along in this way. Prime Minister, you have not been able to answer all the questions. I have every respect for your schedule, but when is the next appointment? That was my specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u41	Mr De Roover, I apologise, but I do not remember my agenda. Apparently the next appointment is July 12, 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u42	It was reported at the Conference of Presidents that a second meeting would remove all questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u43	That agreement is, by the way, in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u44	So July 12th is the next date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-14-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic815x.u45	All points that are dealt with in writing can, of course, go faster. It's up to you to choose.
