ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u1	More and more stories are emerging from sexual violence by Russian soldiers during the war in Ukraine. In the newspaper today we read horrible testimonies of women who were the victims of rape. Men and children are also victims. A few weeks ago we received a letter from Sensoa, the Flemish centre of expertise for sexual health. It raised the alarm about the situation of women and LGBTQI+ people who fled the war in Ukraine and now reside in Europe. More specifically, Sensoa called for attention to be paid to issues relating to access to sexual and reproductive health care, both in Ukraine and in the neighbouring and transit countries where the refugees are currently located. Refugees are at risk of sexual violence, unplanned pregnancies and unsafe pregnancies and childbirth. The challenges are also great for LGBTQI+ refugees, for example in countries such as Hungary and Poland, which criminalise sexual minorities. Specifically in Poland, the situation is particularly distressing for women who wish to have an abortion. Under ultra-conservative abortion legislation in Poland, thousands of pregnant women are currently denied access to abortion. We need to help these women as soon as possible. The women are in an emergency. Among them there are many victims of rape. Some of the victims want to have an abortion on arrival in Poland, but instead of being helped, they clash with women's unfriendly abortion legislation. I find that unacceptable. Do you discuss at European level the situation of women and LGBTQI+ people who fled the war in Ukraine? What can our country do to ensure the access to sexual and reproductive health care of refugees in neighbouring countries? Can we help women who fled Ukraine and want to have an abortion in Poland? If so, how? Can we, for example, allow them to travel to Belgium to receive safe treatment here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as my colleague, Mrs Platteau, said, rape is one of the most horrific and quite frequent weapons of war. Many Ukrainian women who arrive in Poland have been victims. The problem is that the Government of that country has restricted the right to abortion. Today, in Poland, 97 per cent of women cannot avail themselves of it because a prosecutor must be brought before him to do so. However, for a Ukrainian refugee, seizing a prosecutor is very complex, if not impossible. In doing so, the time frame for abortion is well exceeded. Dozens of women are trying to gain access, either through NGOs or by visiting neighbouring countries such as Slovakia or the Czech Republic, which have more flexible regulations in this area. But on the ground, things are very complicated. Mr Secretary of State, how can we guarantee the best possible information to these women who have been raped? How can they be provided with optimal medical and psychological support? What is planned to allow migrant women who have arrived in Poland to be relocated to neighbouring countries that allow better access to abortion? What is the support given to NGOs in Poland and neighbouring countries working on the issue of termination of pregnancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, my question was added to these questions on access to abortion in Poland for raped Ukrainian women, but my question concerns Amnesty International's report on human rights violations in Poland. Recently Amnesty International published a report with terrible facts. We have already learned that people are being violently driven back to Belarus. It is now also becoming clear that those who are not driven back and want to apply for asylum are mainly imprisoned in overcrowded detention centres, without a thorough assessment of their individual situation and the possible impact of detention on their health. These centres also show a significant lack of privacy, sanitation, doctors, psychologists and legal assistance. When transferred to the closed centres, these prisoners are searched, often in a humiliating manner. In the context of expulsion they are treated violently, sometimes even by means of anesthesia or tasers. The most extreme conditions are found in the detention centre in Wędrzyn. The overpopulation is absurdly acute. 24 men are being held in rooms of 8 m2. Moreover, the detention centre is part of a military base. A Syrian refugee testified: "We usually woke up from the sounds of tanks and helicopters, followed by gunshots and explosions. That used to go on all day. If you have nowhere to go and there are no activities to resist your thoughts, this is unbearable. After all the torture in prison in Syria, the threats to my family and then the months along the way, I think I'm really broken in Wędrzyn. What is your response to Amnesty International's report? Are you prepared to condemn these practices in the strongest possible terms? What initiatives will you take at European level to stop these violations of human rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, the war in Ukraine has forced a large part of the population to flee. Among these refugees, there are many pregnant women whose pregnancy is unwanted. There are cases in which the host country does not respond to this situation and this is the case in Poland, where access to abortion is largely impeded, since the ultra-restrictive legislation of that country prohibits abortion de facto. While abortion on the grounds of rape is legally permitted, the shortcomings of the Polish judicial system render in practice almost impossible any evidence of such aggression and therefore of abortion on the basis of this ground. Partner organisations from Ukraine's neighbouring countries have also sent us worrying information about refugee women who are at risk of sexual violence, unplanned pregnancies, and at-risk pregnancies and childbirths. Given that many women were victims of rape during the war in Ukraine, and that 90 per cent of refugees were women, this situation posed a real problem because of their human rights situation. This is a double tragedy for these women who have already lost everything by fleeing their country of origin. These are my questions that go along with those of my colleagues. Are you aware of any cases of Ukrainian refugees for whom access to abortion was impeded once they arrived on Polish soil? Has our government already taken steps, in its jurisdiction, of course, to respond to these situations? Do we intend to support local aid organisations that fight against these violations of women's right to health? How can we act to help Ukrainian refugees in need of abortion? Would it be possible to transfer these women temporarily to countries that allow abortion, including Belgium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, it is unfortunately known how dramatic the situation in Ukraine is, in particular, that there are numerous reports of the use of rape as a weapon of war. The House adopted a resolution on this subject last week. I will not remind you of the content, but we have strongly supported this resolution, all of us. Unfortunately for women who are victims of these acts, the ordeal does not stop at obtaining refugee status in a neighbouring European country. Indeed, there is no need to recall the attitude of countries such as Poland, particularly with regard to access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. On the other hand, our country has state-of-the-art services in this area, also in the area of psychological support for victims of rape or sexual violence in the broad sense. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Have you taken any steps towards your colleagues in the member countries bordering Ukraine, in favour of access to abortion, for refugees who are said to be in an emergency in this regard? Are you considering taking measures to allow for an immediate and urgent transfer to our territory of persons identified as being in a situation of being able to benefit from an abortion or psychological support as victims of sexual violence, from these neighbouring countries? If not, could you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Member States of the European Union have a wide range of policies on ethical issues. A discussion about banning or facilitating voluntary termination of pregnancy is, as most of you know, not a competence of the Justice and Home Affairs Council. Nor is informing third-country nationals who are abroad about the medical rights and choices or financial support of NGOs, working in health care, a competence of my services. The Schengen visa exemption for Ukrainians and the Temporary Protection Directive provide that Ukrainians entering fields of application may travel freely within the European Union and may apply for and enjoy temporary protection status in a Member State. Mrs Daems, of course it is my view that there should be no illegal pushback at the European external borders and that asylum seekers should be received in proper conditions. In fact, I have repeatedly defended this position at the Justice and Home Affairs Council and I have explained it several times in this committee. That does not alter the fact that Poland is allowed and even has to protect its borders. Poland has a European external border. We expect Poland to guard it correctly. European agencies such as Frontex and EASO play an important role in this. They should be part of the solution and be able to cooperate on the ground with the Member States concerned. This has already been discussed at European level. During the Belarus crisis, Belgium has always called for an end to the humanitarian situation. People have urgent needs and they must not be ignored. I welcome the willingness of the European Union to cooperate to restore order and provide shelter. The European Commission has also released emergency aid funds. Ensuring compliance with European law by other Member States is a task of the European Commission which functions as the guardian of the European Treaties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u8	It is difficult to answer questions about matters that do not fall within my competence. I would be happy to answer questions about what the European Commission and the Commissioner in question can do, but it is not my competence to deal with the questions you are asking. I could, of course, make a morally strong plea here that works enthusiastically, but I prefer to stick to the division of powers that exists between the federal level and the European Union. Otherwise, we're gonna tell people a lot of vesicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u9	However, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that you have the power, for example, to allow women to travel to Belgium via a visa in order to have a safe abortion. It might suit your new role as future CD&V president not to address questions about abortion. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u10	Mrs Platteau, as far as you are concerned, abortion, the rules of which we know all over the world, is now a reason to grant humanitarian visas to all those who claim it. If that's the case, let me know for sure. You are talking about Poland's policy. I could conduct a moralistic discourse on how problematic it is there and even make a video that would produce a lot of likes, but in this I am Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, not party chairman. A Secretary of State has effective discretionary powers to allow persons to come to Belgium via a humanitarian visa, but in this case, in this context of Ukraine and Poland, I merely point out that as Secretary of State in the Belgian Government, responsible for Asylum and Migration, I am mainly concerned with what I can do in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u11	Of course, it is not about having anyone who wishes to have an abortion come to Belgium, but about women residing in Europe in the context of a humanitarian crisis, a refugee crisis. It could be a statement if we were to act like other countries. For example, the Netherlands ensures that women who become pregnant after rape by, for example, a Russian military can travel to the Netherlands to have safe abortions. I regret that we do not want to investigate how we could help those women who are currently faced with a fate that we do not wish anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u12	Secretary of State, a few years ago, homosexuals living in Chechnya were killed and massacred because of their sexual orientation. The government of the time had mobilized in its entirety: the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, etc. At that time, it would have been said: "I am sorry, it is not my responsibility to take care of homosexuals in Chechnya, which has its own laws on sexual orientation. Thank you, good-bye!"? That's kind of what you're telling us today. I confess I don't understand your answer. We did not propose that you discuss abortion in Belgium, Poland or elsewhere. Several issues related to fair information for refugees. That still seems to me to come to your attention. Whatever our position towards abortion, we agree to condemn rape. I'm sure of it. The need to finance NGOs on the ground can be defended in order to provide accurate information to women who have been subjected to such violence. Programmes for the relocation of refugees to other European countries can also be promoted. There was therefore room for an exciting debate on this issue. I hope that your colleague Mrs Schlitz will provide answers to the tragedy of rape in wartime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u13	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. 24 men on 8 square metres, humiliations, violence, unwanted anesthetics, reminiscent of the horrors of the 20th century in Poland and Belarus. The difference with Belarus is that Poland is in the EU and Belgian politics has direct responsibility for it. You say that Poland must protect its borders and do so correctly, but Amnesty International's report clearly points to human rights violations. So it's not happening properly. All refugees deserve respectful treatment, as you say. Anyway, there's more you can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to interfere in an intra-majority debate, but I, too, am a little surprised and disappointed by your answer. No one has asked you for a moral condemnation of Poland, that is not the question. The question is: like other European countries, what can we do to raise awareness more proactively for some people who may not even know – it is quite possible – that it is easier in the Netherlands, Belgium or other countries than in Poland to take care of an unwanted pregnancy? If you have any questions about this today, it is because different NGOs have written to several Members. So there is a real problem, so we can hope for more proactivity and not an administrative response. Even if this answer is not incorrect, I think we could legitimately expect more from you, but not become party president.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, at the outset of my question, I recalled the resolution that we adopted massively a few days ago, which calls on Belgium, in particular, to take useful steps to support the fight against sexual violence against Ukrainian women, to carry a message at international level and to take action. Today, one action that we can take is indeed the humanitarian visa, which will allow these women to make the choice, within the framework of the damage they are experiencing and which are directly related to the Russian aggression in Ukraine, not to keep a child if they do not wish to keep it, and to live this choice freely. Furthermore, we also have a message to convey to our European partners, telling them that they must have a respectful attitude towards these women, who are the direct victims of the cruelty of men. At the same time, we have a role to play at all levels by going to help on the ground, indicating the options that exist, including psychological support for these women at the borders of Europe, in Poland, to those women who are waiting for their hand to be handed over. I really think that we need to carry this message, that we need to be strong and that we cannot say that we are not concerned with this supposedly migratory issue. It is a hand stretched towards Ukrainians and Ukrainians, as we have reached out to set up temporary protection, as we are still holding out our hand to ensure a reception in Belgium. These women are in a specific and particular context, they are victims of war and must now bear the consequences, which they may not wish to do. We must allow them to make their choice, because these women may not be able to go from Poland to Belgium as easily as we might think.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, last March, 680 Afghans received an order from the Belgian authorities to leave the territory (OQT). The decision comes from the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA). Commissioner General Dirk Van Den Bulck himself said: "There is still violence, but not everyone is targeted by the Taliban. They're attacking very specific profiles. Therefore, there is no longer any reason to take the same protective measures as in the past." And to continue: "In February, Afghan asylum seekers were called and, in March, many of them received a negative response and an order to leave the territory," he adds. According to him, "it is very exceptional that so many refusals to grant protection are issued during the same month". Only asylum seekers who are personally in real danger, according to the CGRA, have obtained a permit. These include human rights defenders, journalists and those whose sexual orientation is not tolerated by the Taliban. Nevertheless, Mr Secretary of State, I am concerned about the development of the situation. How do you explain the high rate of negative responses to Afghan international protection claimants this March? To whom have the OQTs been delivered: men, women, Afghan families? What steps do you take to ensure their return in this case? Is it a voluntary or forced return? I am also thinking of the United Nations' assessment of the Afghan situation. In August 2021, following the withdrawal of the international armed forces from Afghanistan, the security and humanitarian situation deteriorated rapidly. As a result, Afghans were evacuated and registered in Belgium as victims of disasters. What clues do you have to consider that such returns can take place today safely and thus without endangering those concerned? Can you finally tell me whether, among those 680 OQTs, there are files related to hunger strikers wishing to regularize their situation on the basis of a 9 bis request?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u17	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 22 March 2022 I asked you a question about the Afghans. The lifting of the freeze on the negative assessments and the decision of the CGVS not to grant Afghans the subsidiary protection status has caused a lot of fuss. Specialized lawyers, refugee organisations, but also all guardians of minor refugees were shocked by all the negative decisions that followed. In March 2022, as many as 680 negative decisions were taken with a protection rate of less than 23%. They have all been given an order to leave the territory, while it remains impossible to organise their return. This is how people without papers are created, and that is contrary to European rules. Two weeks ago, it became known that the CGVS has re-established the freeze on negative decisions, so that the situation can be re-evaluated on the basis of the judgment of the RV of 31 March 2022. That is a good thing. Hopefully this will also result in adequate protection of Afghans. Afghanistan is led by the highly repressive and conservative Taliban. In the meantime, it is also known that wearing the burqa again became mandatory for women and that they are no longer allowed to leave the house alone. The true face of the Taliban is reappearing. On top of that comes the issue of the humanitarian disaster and the general food shortage. Returning to Afghanistan is therefore extremely dangerous, not because of a general war situation, but because of the regime that imposes its will through violence and because of the general humanitarian crisis. That is why the UNHCR recently gave the official advice to maintain the freezing of negative decisions for Afghans. It is therefore clear that the Afghan refugees do need protection. What will you do, given the circumstances, to protect the Afghans in Belgium? Will the CGSS follow the case law of the RV and the guidelines of the UNHCR and therefore at least freeze the decision-making process, not just for a few days? Will specific profiles such as women, religious and ethnic minorities, which are now known to be targeted by the Taliban, be assigned refugee status? Will special attention be paid to the fate of children, given the disastrous humanitarian situation? Will it be decided for the Afghans who have already stayed in Belgium and have applied for new asylum since the take-over of power that their application will at least be examined on the substance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, during the takeover of power in the summer of 2021, many wondered whether the Taliban would have become more lenient. However, the new measures taken by the Taliban make it painfully clear that little has changed. Women are again obliged to wear burqa in public. A woman caught without a face covering will be sanctioned. A Taliban spokesperson added that women should also stay inside. A few weeks ago, the Taliban also decided that girls shouldn't go to high school anymore. The few rights that women still have are now being reduced in Afghanistan at a rapid pace. Moreover, the country is grieving under severe economic problems and the violence is rekindling. Family reunification can be a safe and legal way for family members of Afghan recognised refugees to escape the Taliban regime. Following the announced new migration code, Refugee Work Flanders has already advocated better and simpler rules for family reunification of third country nationals. The possibilities for people receiving international protection are currently too limited to include the real family situation of refugees. For example, adult children and siblings are excluded. As I have often mentioned here in committee, there are also many thresholds for family reunification. The procedures are an administrative burden and many people no longer see the forest because of the trees. There are also a lot of additional costs, such as the DNA tests. In addition, the documents must be submitted in Islamabad for Afghan nationals. However, the limited freedom of movement of women makes this journey impossible. There are, therefore, few legal migration channels currently available to allow Afghan women who are oppressed by the Taliban to find safe accommodation through family reunification. That is why I have a few questions. What is the impact of the new measures announced by the Taliban on applications for family reunification of Afghan women? How do you estimate that impact? How will you facilitate the family reunification of Afghan women? Will the new migration code improve the procedures for family reunification of third country nationals? Is there going to be an equalisation of the three different forms of family reunification, for example? Is there going to be a more flexible definition of the family? Will more family members of third-country nationals be entitled to family reunification? What other improvements to the family reunification procedure do you think are needed? I hope that I will get an answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u19	Secretary of State, the Taliban power in Afghanistan confirms that it is moving well towards an authoritarian misogynist and dangerous regime, as before - no surprise. Today we are reminded that the Foreign Office would block certain family reunification files by requiring documents that cannot be obtained unless a large sum of money is paid, before allowing a DNA test. We are asking for, for example - it's pretty bad - an extract of Afghan criminal record, so Taliban, of a power that we don't recognize, to people in Afghanistan to be able to get an appointment at the embassy for a DNA test. Evidence of custody of children has also been requested at times, while since the arrival of the Taliban women have been prohibited from having custody of children. For these examples, the Foreign Office explained "considering an alternative". Two months later, no solution was provided by the Office of Foreigners. Mr Secretary of State, Belgium does not recognise the Taliban power. So what is the validity of a document issued by a power that is not recognized? What is the value of a virgin "judicial case" in the country of the Taliban? What are we waiting for to facilitate the arrival of Afghans through safe and legal channels such as family reunification? Do we expect the Taliban government to advocate equality between men and women, or to organize the first Pride in Kabul? As part of this effort, Canada announced its participation in a resettlement program of 40,000 Afghans. Is the European Union also part of this resettlement programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on an aspect on which I can certainly give a lot of answers. I can also talk about humanitarian visas for people from Afghanistan, who also exist. As you know, the assessment of the need for international protection is fortunately within the competence of independent bodies, i.e., the CGRA, and the CCE in the event of an appeal. The evaluation of the dossiers shall be carried out taking into account the situation in the country of origin, the information available on this subject and the individual elements relied on by the applicant. This assessment is based on the criteria set by law and international conventions - which we love so much. It is pleased that this will be done in this way. As I have said on several occasions, we can only be pleased that the CGRA is doing the work independently and that this should continue in the years to come. It is therefore inappropriate for me, as Secretary of State, to rule on the need for special instructions for specific profiles, such as women, religious, ethnic minorities or children, or on the manner in which subsequent requests by Afghan applicants for international protection are dealt with. The CGVS and the RVV are independent bodies. If you were to ask me that today, you should not be angry tomorrow if someone else in this post from another party would do the same and give his own instructions. Let us above all ensure that these services are able to do their job in complete independence. For an overview of CGRA's policy, I refer you to the information that is available on their website. The policy of CGRA vis-à-vis Afghan nationals can be summarized in this way. First of all, the CGRA acknowledges that the situation is very problematic and this situation is therefore assessed with the necessary caution. Secondly, in assessing the need for refugee status, many situations are taken into account depending on the situation and individual profile. I don't think I'm teaching you anything, but I still want to make it clear. In a second stage, if refugee status is not already granted, the CGRA carries out the assessment of subsidiary protection. In this regard, the Committee considers that, given the general situation, there is no reason to grant subsidiary protection automatically. This may possibly be the case in particular and individual circumstances, even if it remains rather exceptional. The higher number of refusal decisions made in March is related to the fact that the backlog of cases processed during the period August 2021 to February 2022 had to be rectified. At that time, decisions on recognition of refugee status were taken and notified, but notification of decisions had been suspended for cases where there was no immediate indication that refugee status could be granted. This suspension was taken pending further information on the situation in Afghanistan. Sufficient information has recently been available again, according to CGRA. As a result, in March, a relatively higher number of refusal decisions were made. However, this is not representative of the policy, as a large number of refusal decisions were taken in a short period of time. With regard to the assessment of the possibility of return, it was necessary to await the decision of the Foreign Litigation Council to decide on appeals against decisions refusing international protection. Secondly, the risk of return will be assessed taking into account, mainly, the following aspects. In the event of a final decision to refuse the application for international protection, in principle there is a presumption that there is no need for protection. Before returning, there is always an individual examination in the light of Article 3 and possibly Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This aspect is assessed individually. In your question you talk about 680 orders to leave the territory. This is not 680 orders to leave the territory since the CGRA does not issue orders to leave the territory. To issue an order to leave the territory falls within the competence of the Aliens Office. The Agency has not yet issued an order to leave the territory following a negative decision by CGRA in March for an Afghan national. To my knowledge, none of the files that were seized by the administration for hunger strikers were the subject of a CGRA decision in March 2022. I don't understand your question about nationality. Indeed, I remember very well that we have already discussed the nationality of hunger strikers. If I am not mistaken, they were 95% Moroccans, Algerians or Tunisians. I don't think an Afghan was among them. I can be wrong. In any case, this is not the main axis. I want to make that clear because I remember a few months ago, a Brussels MP told me that it was outrageous that not all hunger strikers had been regularized because they should be returned to Syria or Afghanistan. I therefore note that work still needs to be done in this area. And this work is done every day. Mr Moutquin, Mrs Platteau, Belgium obviously does not recognise the power of the Taliban. However, the Aliens Office cannot be asked to apply the law to the card. Some family members have a right to family reunification. However, recognition of this right is subject to the conditions laid down in the law of aliens. The presentation of an extract of a criminal record is one of the conditions. In general, it is recommended that any person who is unable to submit documents that enable the administration to verify that the conditions for family reunification are met explain the reasons for this. The Aliens Office will make its decision taking into account all the information available to it. In the absence of an extract of the criminal record, the Aliens Office will assess the security risk by consulting the various security agencies. It is not at all correct to insinuate that family reunification is not possible for Afghans. It is difficult to assess the impact of the new Taliban measures on requests for family reunification of Afghan women. The Belgian embassy in Islamabad is still receiving visa applications. This shows that the situation for women in Afghanistan is anything but enviable without discussion, but that they still have the opportunity to apply for visas, especially thanks to the support they receive from those with whom they wish to reunite in Belgium. In turn, these people are supported by different organisations. Moreover, with the evacuations under Operation Red Kite, we have also mobilised exceptionally many resources and staff to respond to the exceptional situation. However, it is not possible and not desirable to create a favour regime for Afghan women only for applications for family reunification. As far as possible, we are still trying to ensure that these dossiers are treated as quickly as possible if a decision can be taken quickly on the basis of the dossier. In fact, we have already discussed favor regimes in the Chamber. Why one nationality and the other not? On the basis of these discussions and because I know how consistent one always is, I suspect that no one is asking for a favor regime. In addition, following the evacuation in August, the Foreigners' Office continued to grant humanitarian visas to Afghans in danger after the Taliban seized power. The Commission has requested a plethora of Member States in exchange for funding for Afghans who may enter the Member State by legal means and who subsequently obtained international protection in that Member State. This plea concerns the period between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2022. In this context, we have already reached 425 people and my services continue to process similar requests. We led Operation Red Kite and brought in activists, journalists, judges, people fighting for women's rights. I fought for these people to be on our list and I thank those who did the work with me. Finally, the work on the migration code, including the family reunification procedure, continues unabated. The Committee of Experts will make proposals in consultation with the asylum and migration services and the many actors, including civil society. I do not want to anticipate this, but I do not need to explain to you the direction in which I think it should go.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u21	Mr. Rigot has left.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, as usual, you are relying on the independence of the CGVS. The CGVS is indeed independent. After the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, you immediately made all kinds of statements. Now that we are asking for a response on the Afghan file, please refer to the independence of the CGVS. I find that remarkable. Last week we were able to obtain a hearing in committee on the matter with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. That is a good thing, because there is really no clarity on the policy with regard to Afghan asylum seekers. It is really important to know what parameters were used, for example, to lift the freeze and how the security situation in Afghanistan is now being assessed. It is also unclear what will happen to Afghans who are not recognised as refugees. They can't go anywhere. They cannot and must not return to Afghanistan. They can't stay here either. So they are left to their own devices. I find that unacceptable. I am very curious to know what explanation Mr Van den Bulck will give. Of course, I expect something to be done about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We worked together for a year and a half and I never made an exaggerated statement. Don't hold it either! I did not say that the Aliens Office systematically blocked all applications for family reunification. I explain that the current administrative procedures in the country of the Taliban are complicated and that, de facto, some families have their procedures blocked. Moreover, the Aliens Office itself replied that solutions had to be found, in particular for two documents: the judicial extract and the legitimacy of a maternity recognition on a child. These two documents, which are now necessary in the context of family reunification, are complicated to find in the country of the Taliban. We have to be able to find a solution. I didn't say that all family reunification applications were blocked. Since the Taliban came to power in August 2021, decisions have been frozen at the request of UNHCR. They were then thawed by CGRA despite UNHCR's request to keep them frozen. The decisions were then invalidated by the EAC, so they were frozen. Today, a week after the announcement that burqa is imposed in Afghanistan, the decisions are negative. We had agreed on a just and humane policy and we realize that today the situation of Afghan refugees is problematic. The current treatment of Afghan refugees is humanly deplorable and is just ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u24	Mr Roggeman apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, the European Commission recently proposed its plans for easing legal migration to Europe. More specifically, at the end of this year, the Commission would like to open the door to migrant workers from countries such as Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. At a later stage, talent partnerships with Senegal, Nigeria, Pakistan and Bangladesh would also be on the agenda. Several of these countries are known for their lack of cooperation with, or even outright opposition to, the readmission of their illegal nationals. Instead of finally imposing sanctions on these countries, they are rewarded by the opening of legal immigration channels. In doing so, the Commission is doing just the opposite of what it has repeatedly promised and is turning the world upside down. You yourself argued in favour of sanctions against unwilling third countries and said that Europe should stop talking without a stick behind the door. Do you think that the opening of an additional legal immigration channel, or the relaxation of existing rules for countries, is a good idea? There is more than one comment to be made on the Commission's recent proposal. Are there any reservations from the Belgian Government? If so, which one? In what direction do you wish to amend the proposal yourself? Of course, you and your colleagues are part of the bodies that will take that decision and update the proposal. So you are not merely a spectator of it. You can still steer the proposal in a certain direction, which one? If not, will the Belgian Government support the European Commission's proposal or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u26	As I explained in last week's plenary session, labour migration is an integral part of the European Pact on Asylum and Migration. Mr Van Langenhove, from a debate in which you were present with myself and Mr Van Grieken, your party chairman, I know that your party is not opposed to labour migration. After all, she is aware that, in addition to activating everyone in this country, labour migration will still be necessary. This must be done selectively and in the right way. In the European Asylum and Migration Pact, it is effectively important to work on labour migration. In this context, last week, the European Union published a communication to mark the start of a number of talks. This will ensure that this can be discussed further in the Council and that the proposal can be steered in the right direction. The Commission wants a sustainable European policy on legal migration with legislative, operational and forward-looking elements. Under the operational pillar, the Commission proposes to set up a number of projects as a priority. The Commission is talking about Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt, countries with which we have important migratory links. It is a proposal from the European Commission, which Belgium and the other Member States will examine. In doing so, we must take into account many aspects, including the abuse of the single permit, of which we have recently received a lot of signals. We must properly weigh the benefits for our country, what's in it for us - both in economic terms with labour migration, and in terms of return. Belgium has a rich tradition of economic migration and already has experience with circular migration projects. This tradition must continue in view of the problem of the ageing population in Europe and the demand of our companies for labour, whose vacancies are not filled. Indeed, our entrepreneurs are also asking for efficient, rapid and transparent labour migration procedures to address labour shortages, without releasing us from the responsibility of getting any resident who can work effectively to work. Legal labour migration should be a win-win situation for the country of origin and for the country of destination, as well as for the person himself. Our model of demand-driven labour migration is therefore appropriate to this. Foreign workers may come to Belgium via the single permit if they meet different conditions, including a contract of employment with a Belgian employer. Depending on regional legislation, this can be mainly for employment in bottleneck professions, jobs for which our companies do not find staff. It is often suggested here to help people without papers in our country to work through the single permit. However, this is not the right way to go, because this creates many problems. If we help people without papers to work in this way, we will show that immigrants in their country of origin do not even have to apply for a permit. After all, if it turns out that they can apply for a licence once they are in Belgium, why would they still do so in their country of origin? We therefore want to act in a demand-driven manner. This can be done through the digital platform Coming to work in Belgium. Yesterday we presented a number of results on this subject, which shows that we have really taken a number of steps in the right direction in terms of the high potentials and the bottleneck professions. The European Commission's legislative proposals address the need to streamline and improve existing labour migration procedures. In Belgium, we are already taking important steps in this respect, including with the installation a year ago of the unique window, which is already showing results today. There is, of course, also an important link with the problem of the inactive population in Belgium, as mentioned earlier. Within Belgium, too, we can make much better use of the integration of newcomers, the mentoring of the working population into the labour market and the activation of people who are inactive today or who have been looking for work for some time. Colleagues at the sub-state levels, but also at the federal level, are working on this. I have always stressed that we must first consider how we can maximise the activation of the legally resident population in Belgium. I am also convinced of the usefulness of activating persons legally residing in Belgium to give them a chance to develop, to learn something and to contribute to our society. That is why, from my point of view, I have set up an action plan for the activation and acquisition of asylum seekers. These people are legally resident in our country, and it is therefore interesting to see whether they are not able to enter into a number of bottleneck professions. Those who still have some free time on weekends can go to La Petite Merveille in Durbuy, where a number of asylum seekers are now working, thanks to the action plan we have developed. Last but not least, the activation and skills acquisition of newcomers is an important priority for me. This will therefore be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Asylum and Migration. That will be the next theme, and that will probably be very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, you say that labour migration is part of the European Pact. It is indeed a good thing that consideration is being given at European level to how we can organise this. You referred in your reply to the ageing population and the shortage of labour. We may need labour migration for our economy. I fully agree with you that we must also accompany people who are already staying here to the labour market. We need to be able to integrate newcomers better. People with a migration background should also be able to be activated, because the figures in this area are certainly not positive in the Belgian labour market. A study has been published today which says that many employers employ people through posting, but that the quality of that work is inadequate. There are many valuable elements in the European Commission's new proposals on the revision of the single permit. For example, there is a real risk of exploitation by employers if the fate of a person's residence permit is too much in the hands of a particular employer. The European Commission will have to consider how to reduce these cases of exploitation. I have another question on the agenda, following a VUB study. So we can come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, the employment rates of immigrants in Belgium are appalling. So I do not understand why you want to implement the European Commission's plan and bring in even more migrants from Senegal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Bangladesh and so on, while we are just as much able to activate and engage the unemployed and inactive people from Brussels, and we are running into unemployment in our economy. It's best for everyone. Everyone in the committee is talking about our economy and the benefits that labour migrants would bring to our economy, but life is more than just economy. It is not just about the economy; we must also look at the impact of all these migrants on our education, on the housing market, on social cohesion in our society and on justice, because our prisons are full of migrants. The lusts of labour migration are for the employers, for the big business owners, for the big capital that benefits from it, but the burden is of course for the less fortunate Flemings who live in the same neighbourhoods as the many immigrants who cohabit there and cause major social problems. So the desires and the burdens are really wrongly distributed. Finally, I would like to make one final point about something that is not so clear. It's pretending to be more highly educated and desirable profiles. For example, we are talking about doctors and engineers coming from Bangladesh and Nigeria to Belgium. If we want the best for those countries and want them to get out of poverty through development, wouldn't those highly skilled profiles stay in their own country to support their country's development? If these specific groups are not involved, they are less educated people. So you want to bring hundreds of thousands of migrant workers here to compete with those who are already struggling to pay their bills and invoices by the end of the month. People will have to compete with people from Bangladesh, Senegal and Nigeria for the jobs that are already being paid too badly. That is not explained in any way!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, more than 3.7 million Syrian refugees are being received in Turkey. The European Union is giving billions of euros to Turkey for this. Unfortunately, the anti-refugee sentiment among the Turkish population has also increased considerably in recent years. 11.11.11 issued a report a few weeks ago on the difficult situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey. 944 Syrian refugees were questioned in Turkey. On this basis, a number of findings were made. There is coercion and physical violence, with Syrians also having to sign voluntary return forms. After their return, they are often imprisoned and abused. More than half of Syrian refugees feel increasing pressure to leave Turkey. As many as 80% of those questioned know Syrians who had to flee Syria a second time after they were returned. The return takes place through detention centres, which are funded by EU support. 11.11.11 calls for an independent investigation. It also appears that 74% of Syrians cannot meet their basic needs. The number of Syrians who have a work permit in Turkey is minimal. Only 30% of Syrian refugees indicated that they wanted to stay in Turkey. This report demonstrates the precarious situation of Syrian refugees in Turkey. They do not have a future perspective, which forces many to take the dangerous journey towards Europe. There is clearly a need for a sustainable solution for Syrians in Turkey. Mr Secretary of State, how do you view the future of the deal between Europe and Turkey? What efforts can Belgium make to contribute to sustainable solutions? Are you aware of Syrians being forced to sign so-called voluntary return documents? Did you discuss the increasing number of deportations of Syrians during your visit to Turkey? Do you support the demand for an independent investigation into closed detention centres in Turkey? What is the status of the resettlement of Syrian refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u30	Mrs Platteau, the EU-Turkey Declaration has helped to better manage migratory flows. For me, the deal is also a symbol of European solidarity with Turkey, a country that receives the largest number of refugees in the world. The new forms of financing therefore offer the opportunity to learn from mistakes and at the same time to focus on sustainable actions that can also offer a long-term perspective to the many people on the run. I am aware of the various reports and reports from Turkey on the return to Syria. My position on this is that voluntary return must always be a possibility. Forced return to Syria can of course only be achieved if it complies with international law. In this respect, the guidelines drawn up by the UN Refugee Agency are extremely relevant. As requested in a recent Parliamentary resolution, I discussed the return and support of Syrians during my mission to Turkey, where I spoke, among other things, with the Minister of the Interior. I have also had talks with the EU delegation and with various UN agencies working in Turkey, drawing up a more nuanced picture of the situation. They also provide independent control and receive European funding. For example, UNHCR monitors return policy in 16 Turkish provinces. When there is a presumption of coercion, the case is discussed with the Turkish government. Since 2013, Belgium has re-established 1,939 persons from Turkey, all of whom are Syrian nationals. This puts Turkey first in terms of the number of resettled refugees and is the main resettlement country for Belgium. By the way, in 2021, Belgium re-established another 451 people from Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, you say that we must learn lessons from the EU's deal with Turkey and learn from our mistakes. However, I have not heard what lessons we can draw from this. Perhaps my group will learn different lessons from yours. We, as a Europe, become vulnerable when we make deals like this with countries like Turkey. I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u32	The President: Mr Roggeman's question was put to the vote at 55027583C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u33	The Latest News Released on 22 April that the ex-President of Ecuador, Rafael Correa, according to various foreign media and also his lawyer, was recognised as a refugee in Belgium. Meanwhile Ecuador would have asked Belgium for the extradition of the former president. Can you confirm that Mr Correa has indeed been granted the status of recognised refugee? When did that decision date? Do you consider such a decision politically appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u34	Mr Van Langenhove, you are undoubtedly aware that in Belgium independent bodies, first and foremost the CGVS and in appeals to the RVV, are assessing the applications for international protection. It is therefore not appropriate for me to give an opinion on this. Nor is it possible for the CGVS to disseminate information on individual files, even to confirm whether an application for international protection was made. This would be contrary to the GDPR and also to European regulations and to the Aliens Act itself. In addition, this would be contrary to professional secrecy for the CGIS. So I can't tell you much more than what I said. We must accept - and we are pleased to see it - that independent bodies in Belgium are doing this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u35	Every day I wake up happy, knowing that the CGVS massively approves asylum files. All madness on a stick, I believe that the way of working in this country is still subject to a lot of improvements. We should think very carefully in the coming years how we can reform asylum policy, migration policy, in Belgium so that it can regain some credibility and use the right of asylum for which it really serves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u36	Mr President, this is an important follow-up question. In mid-December, it became known that Belgium has called on the EASO to help cope with the peak influx of asylum. In the short term, the European Agency would provide housing containers for the reception of asylum seekers and also provide staff. In this respect, at the end of last year, you signed an operational plan with the Executive Director, Mrs Gregori of EASO, which would be rolled out in the following weeks. To what extent has the operational plan been deployed in the meantime? Exactly how many residential containers are involved and how many asylum seekers, in order of size, are currently being taken into account? How many employees does the EASO actually make available and what exactly is their job? How do you generally assess this cooperation? Do you intend to make further use of the support of the EASO in the future? If so, for what purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u37	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the operational plan is under way for both the delivery of containers and staff. Currently, the EUAA, the new name of the EASO, is in the process of installing these containers. Soon the first residents will be taken in. The EUAA is also available to 21 staff to assist asylum seekers and provide information. They also provide 25 interpreters for the provision of interpretation services in the various reception centres in that country. Cooperation is progressing smoothly for the time being. If the reception requirements remain high, there is a possibility that Fedasil may re-apply the support of the EUAA in the context of reception capacity or personnel. That will depend on what the future brings. If money is put into the European Union, it is also intended to replace something for it. The fact that the European Asylum Agency is active in other countries is good, but it is also good that we can call on it. In this one, we see that it's effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, my group would, of course, prefer that all this should be in Belgian hands and even more so in Flemish hands. As long as we have to pay for it and remain active in the European carcan, it is indeed interesting to get the necessary help with the major costs involved in the asylum crisis. You say that the first containers will soon be put into service. Where and for which refugees will you use them exactly? But perhaps I can submit a number of follow-up questions on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, during the exchange of views on the annual report of our beloved CGVS, Commissioner-General Dirk Van den Bulck stated that the legal possibility of accessing mobile phones and IT equipment has been severely restricted in practice. Apart from the restrictions on privacy, it was mainly about the fact that this is only possible in the second stage, depending on the voluntary cooperation of the person concerned, and moreover, a refusal cannot be used against the person in question. The latter is rather remarkable, as the launch of the Transmigration Intelligence Team stated that the intention would be to systematically read out mobile phones from transit migrants as soon as there is a suspicion that they were victims of trafficking or smuggling, a common phenomenon. According to the Commissioner-General, it is technically perfectly possible to ensure that such material is looked at and read out in a manner consistent with GDPR, although this would require a strong investment. In view of the limitations, he considered the added value to be extremely minimal. Are you prepared to amend the legislation in force so that access can take place in the first phase, i.e. by the Foreign Office, as is already the case in some European countries? Have you already had the effectiveness and efficiency of the system investigated in other countries? If not, are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u40	Mr Van Langenhove, first of all we must not confuse two things. The Commissioner-General discussed the progress of the asylum procedure in the exchange of views on the annual report. This is where the CGVS plays a role. He mentioned the possibility of reading mobile phones in the context of the asylum procedure. This is not about reading the cell phones of transit migrants in an interception by the police, as suggested at the launch of the Transmigration Intelligence Team. In that case, the reading will be done by the federal judicial police. A number of interesting questions could perhaps be put to the Minister responsible for justice. With regard to the reading of mobile phones during the asylum procedure, the Aliens Act provides for the possibility for the CGVS to inspect mobile phones or other electronic carriers. Access must be made with the consent of the applicant for international protection. The possibility of access was examined by the CGVS. There are systems that allow only the elements relevant to the examination of the application for international protection to be looked at without other personal data being accessed. However, the investments for this are very high and the possible impact of the investment on the examination of the application for international protection would be very small according to the CGVS. Therefore, the modalities were not further developed and the relevant technical equipment was not purchased. If the costs can decrease or if the output obtained can increase, then we get a different story and we need to evaluate the case. In any case, a cost-benefit analysis is always necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u41	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. We'll have to follow that up for sure. It is true that the investment is large and the return, especially in the short term, is rather small. Perhaps that will change in the future. The principle that we must be absolutely certain if we are to grant asylum or not is a very sacred principle, and certain costs are certainly justified. I personally have some experience with reading cell phones by the federal judicial police. I will put a number of questions to your colleague, Mr Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u42	"Mr. Secretary of State, the situation in Moldova, a border country of Ukraine, is becoming increasingly complex due to the reception of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians on its territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u43	Thank you in advance for the answers to these questions."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u44	Mr Moutquin, Moldova is facing migratory pressure. European support has been provided. The European Union has deployed humanitarian resources and agencies such as Frontex provide operational support. Finally, a number of Member States, including France, have made a voluntary commitment to relocate. Belgium has already made a number of commitments, mainly to relocate vulnerable people, including some 60 minors, sick or disabled people. A relocation decision has an impact on all Belgian entities and a transfer of refugees from Moldova could be possible if and only if the reception capacity is sufficient and after a decision of the Kern in this direction. I was in New York last week and discussed it with my Moldovan colleague who expressed how tense the situation is. We must continue to look at this closely and see how Europe can act together with the partners concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I have heard your speech at the United Nations and I see today the figures for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, particularly those from France, which are still significantly lower than ours. It is not at all a fight of "the most welcoming"; we must all do the best. In any event, a response must be given to Moldova. Moldova is not only more than one million Ukrainian refugees, it is also a catastrophic economic crisis and a country that is emerging from a crisis that is very difficult to manage and calls for help. This really needs to be the subject of a careful and comprehensive discussion within the European Union's bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, between the tabling of my question and today, you have had the opportunity to speak about this worrying announcement by the British Prime Minister, whom I quote: "Everyone who enters the United Kingdom illegally can now be relocated to Rwanda." These are Boris Johnson's words following an agreement between his country and Rwanda. The agreement in question provides for the expulsion to Rwanda of illegal migrants to Rwanda in exchange for a cheque of 144 million euros. This project is likely to apply to all foreigners illegally entering British territory, wherever they come from (Iran, Syria, Eritrea, etc.).). Amnesty International, for its part, denounces "a scandalously ill-conceived idea" that "will suffer while wasting huge sums of public money," also stressing Rwanda's "sadly human rights balance sheet". The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, for its part, condemned this practice in violation of human rights and the Geneva Convention. What is certain is that this project, which is only a communication at this stage, aims to discourage people from joining the United Kingdom, particularly those on Belgian and French migration routes. Mr Secretary of State, have you reacted formally to this agreement which is outside the framework of international law? What discussions are under way with the United Kingdom on the so-called migrants in transit?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u47	Mr Moutquin, I am quite sceptical about the legitimacy and feasibility of the approach. I believe that an outsourcing of migration policy and responsibilities exploits the vulnerability of migrants and developing countries that are already overburdened. The European model that I am advocating is a system with screening at the external border, international cooperation and sanctions against countries of origin that refuse to re-accept their nationals. I have already spoken on several occasions. I wonder who does benefit from outsourcing. It is not for us because power is given to a country that will decide for what price today and for what price tomorrow it will be ready to do what it is asked to do. I have already spoken many times here, in Parliament, and at European level, and recently again, with high-level diplomatic contact from the United Kingdom after the announcement of the agreement. We have also discussed Ukraine, small boats, cooperation on readmission with third countries and border control. I also told him what I thought about outsourcing and why it was not, in my opinion, a good solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u48	Secretary of State, I agree with you on the non-effectiveness, ineffectiveness and dangerousness of border outsourcing. However, it is known that migrants who go to England pass through Belgium, France and the Netherlands. It would be interesting for us as well as for them to provide these people with fair information about the so-called British Eldorado, beyond the populist announcements of the British Prime Minister. I think it is necessary to explain to these people that the living conditions of migrants in Britain are sometimes catastrophic and that it is worth rethinking their plans and destinations as a migrant person.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u49	"Mr. Secretary of State, according to the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, more than 3,000 people trying to join Europe died at sea last year. This is twice as much as it was in 2020. Of these, 1,924 people died in the Mediterranean while 1,153 died on the North-West Africa maritime route to the Canary Islands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u50	Is a mechanism for the rapid landing and relocation in Europe of rescued persons at sea possible?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u51	Mr Moutquin, this is an extremely serious issue. It is tragic that migrants continue to drown at sea. At the same time, the problem is particularly complex. The covid-19 pandemic and the resulting border closures had a significant impact on migration flows in 2020. This explains in part why the number of deaths at sea increased particularly between 2020 and 2021. An effective solution is really possible only within the broader framework of a comprehensive and integrated European policy. The situation of the different migration routes is closely monitored at EU level. The Blueprint network regularly monitors the situation and the ISAA report, published as part of the IPCR network activation, provides a weekly overview of the situation. In addition, meetings on the migration situation are held at regular intervals within the Council in order to allow exchanges on the situation of different migration routes and deaths at sea. The European Contact Group on Search and Rescue is a key platform for cooperation, information exchange and the sharing of good practices among the actors involved in search and rescue operations. In addition to the Member States, this group includes EU agencies, international organisations and private entities such as non-governmental organisations and merchant ship associations. EUAA and Frontex agencies also publish regular reports and more detailed analyses on the state of the different roads and the increase in flows. In particular, Frontex's task is to provide technical and operational assistance to Member States and third countries as part of their joint border surveillance operation at sea. In this context, it must also support search and rescue operations for persons in distress at sea that may occur during these operations. Ships deployed by Frontex in an operational area may provide support to national authorities. Such operations and those of Search And Rescue (SAR) are always coordinated by the National Marine Rescue Coordination Centres. When acting at the Union's external borders, the Agency must act in accordance with Union law and international law, including the principle of non-refoulement. Issues related to fundamental rights and allegations of violations against the Agency are closely monitored by the Board of Directors and the Agency's Fundamental Rights Officer. The content of the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is not public. Additional initiatives can only be proposed and envisaged within the framework of the European Union and within the framework of the European Pact on Asylum and Migration. There is also a voluntary relocation mechanism for people rescued at sea. This is part of the pact negotiations, the idea of which is to strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u52	You already know several elements of my reply, because we have been discussing different points of view for months. I am convinced that this is the most dangerous road in the world, with 3,000 people dead in the Mediterranean, according to many organizations. Moreover, it is only the people whose bodies were found and the actual figures are probably much more important. The solution lies in safe and legal ways. Your government did it when you increased the number of relocations. We must continue to do so and allow people to come legally and safely to Europe and Belgium, so that they do not take deadly roads like these. With regard to operations at sea, maritime law requires rescue. I hope that it is respected and I believe that rescue operations need to be strengthened. Operation Sophia, at the time, had worked very well. I believe that such European Union operations need to be strengthened and re-established. Regarding Frontex, you say that OLAF's report is not public. It would have to be so in order to have a transparent and democratic debate. It's not your responsibility, but I think it's really important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, Ghent University published a report on inactivity in Europe and the Belgian Regions. That is not your competence right away, but I would like to talk specifically about an important passage in that report, about people with a migration background. In addition to the fact that inactivity is a very big problem in our country, 1.7 million people are inactive today, the report shows that more than 44% of people with a migration background between 25 and 64 years of age are not working or are not looking for work. This makes us the worst student in the European class: we are doing as much as 15% worse than the EU average. These figures are dramatic, something must be done urgently. I have three questions. Do you know what the report means by "persons with a migration background? Are those people who are staying here illegally or who are in a procedure or who have already gone through a procedure and whose application has been approved? Do you intend to take action, possibly with the Minister of Work, but also with the relevant ministers of the regions to specifically activate people with a migration background and lead them to a job? Is the Digital Window Working in Belgium already active? If so, what are the preliminary results? Can this be used to activate people with a migration background?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u54	Mr Vandenput, by people with a migration background, one means, if I am not mistaken, that one of the parents or two of the grandparents do not have Belgian nationality. Then there is the non-EU migration background and the EU migration background. The definitions go all the way. I think I'm covered, too. Depending on whether one defines politics as work or not, I am either in one statistic or in another. In any case, people who are illegally staying in Belgium are not included, even because they are not allowed to work. A person who is illegally resident in Belgium must return to his own country. We have always indicated our willingness to help people who are staying here illegally, but who can work in a bottleneck profession. By help, I mean those people, before they return to their country, explain how best to apply for labour migration from their country of origin. So they follow the rules like all other good people and can be employed here. If this is not done, there will be few people who will apply from Senegal, for example, to the embassy because the papers can still be obtained in Belgium. That is not a good idea, and we are not very much in favour of it either. The first Inter-Ministerial Conference Migration and Integration was about unaccompanied minors. That was an important conference. There are important yards that need to be tackled. The second conference, including my question, will be about work. We need to get people activated. A number of parties believe that the people without papers should be activated. My philosophy is clear enough in this. We certainly need to look at how to get everyone who has been activated here and how to ensure that an asylum seeker who is legally resident here can also be put to work. That is why I also launched my action plan to get asylum seekers to work as quickly as possible. We are looking at how a number of sectors, such as agriculture in general and construction, can do seasonal work. There is a demand for this in many sectors. Many of these asylum seekers would not rather be able to work and gain experience in the period they are waiting for. The Inter-Ministerial Conference will be very interesting to see how, together with the Ministers responsible for Work and anyone working on migration and integration, we can activate everyone. Some parties say that migration leads to inactivity in the labour market. This is the case in Belgium. Compared to neighbouring countries, Belgium is the worst pupil of the class. This means either that all inactive migrants want to go to Belgium or that Belgium has a very poor integration policy and an activation policy that is still under way. I think it's the last option. So we really need to bet on that. We need everyone on the labour market. That's what we need to bet on. I am very pleased that we were able to launch the last aspect of Working in Belgium last year. It used to be way too archaic. This is about profiles that are definitely getting activated. Those are often high potentials, people who are wanted all over the world. Yesterday I went to a company in Wallonia that, thanks to the digital platform, was able to attract people who were very eager in the biotech industry, such as engineers and ICTs. In addition to migration for bottleneck professions, asylum seekers or people with a migration background, there is also the part of selective labour migration, which is about profiles that are sought after all over the world. I feel that we in Belgium are too often staring at our navel, while in the Netherlands people are hyperambitious and get the best headlines to Amsterdam or Rotterdam. We often do not know what to do with this. Flanders and Belgium are today leaders in the field of biotech, but if they want to stay that way tomorrow, they need to gather the knowledge that is present all over the world. The results on selective labour migration are good. I introduced them to Takeda yesterday, a Japanese company. For COOVID-19, we were up to about 4,000 applications a year, last year we were up to over 5,000 applications for 2021. If the provisional figures for 2022 were extrapolated to the whole year, we would reach about 8,000 applications. This is still nothing compared to, for example, the Netherlands, but we are taking the right steps to show that we need people who want to contribute, people who have knowledge and know-how and can rekindle our economic engine, and that they also have every opportunity to come to Belgium and not to the Netherlands or France.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I welcome your answer and am in complete agreement. Illegals are not allowed to work here, but have to go back to their country. You put your finger on the wound, our activation policy, not only in Flanders but also in Wallonia and Brussels, is very bad. We need to work on that. I hope that the Inter-Ministerial Conference will finally achieve a breakthrough in this area, because 1.7 million people cannot be inactive. I also realize that we cannot get everyone to work. However, there is a shortage in the labour market today, because entrepreneurs and public institutions are looking for people. Those vacancies are simply not filled out. That system to guide those 1.7 million people to those jobs isn't working right now. There's also the story of those high potentials. I myself found in the Tubek company Thales in Wallonia that people from all over the world work there, with very different backgrounds. One thing is for sure, they provide added value so that our Belgian companies can be lifted to a higher level. We certainly need to bet on that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, a month ago De Standaard issued an opinion poll on Ukraine's policy. This shows that seven out of ten Flemings support the reception of Ukrainian refugees. I know we sometimes have to take polls with a grain of salt. However, it is a remarkably high number of Flemings who stand behind that shelter. The reception of Ukrainians in Europe and Belgium is our duty. It is also an example of how people can be taken care of in their own region. However, we also see other refugees entering our country, often Afghans and Sudanese people who have had a long and very dangerous journey. I do not need to explain this to you; you know the situation better than I do. Nevertheless, they arrive here in Belgium. I have the following questions. How do you view the reception in our own region which we are doing here and which might also be better done in other regions? Is reception in its own region covered by the European Migration Pact? If so, what are the different Member States' views on this treatment? What results have been achieved? Are you working on plans, possibly together with the Minister for Development Cooperation, to support reception in your own region? I am talking about Afghans and Sudanese. Are there bilateral or multilateral talks on readmission agreements in the context of return?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u57	Mr Vandenput, you are right to ask a question about the vision of care in the coming decades. The reality, which is often underestimated, is that most people stay in the region. 90% to 95% of all refugees worldwide remain in their own region. Venezuela, for example, has over 6 million refugees in Colombia. Refugees from Syria end up with more than 4 million in Turkey. Refugees from Afghanistan reach Pakistan by more than 2 million. It is particularly important to ensure that people in that region can be properly cared for. I am convinced that the sooner people are safe and the less long the route they have to travel, the better for the people themselves. It is also easier for refugees to find a way out of this and to integrate it more quickly if they are to be treated in a region with a certain affinity. We certainly need to take those aspects with us. In the Turkey deal, for example, shelter has been made possible for fleeing Syrians in Turkey. That's what we need to go through in the rest of the world. This does not mean that we do nothing from Europe. We can always transfer people through resettlement, because we want to show solidarity. For example, since 4 million Syrians are already being received in Turkey, it is not illogical for European countries to do a piece of work. The most important thing, however, seems to me to be to ensure that countries such as Turkey are regarded as safe third countries, so that refugees who come there must and can also be taken care of there. The migration pact does not talk as such about reception in the region, but it does say that the external borders must be screened. In this philosophy, the European Commission is looking, for example, for the Turkey declaration, for ways of treating a third country as a safe country. In my view, this is mainly our task. The question of cooperation with the Department of Development Cooperation is interesting. Of course, the coalition agreement has to be taken into account, but I find it interesting to look at linked aspects together. I think that Europass needs to invest in countries where we know the shelter is going into the soup. If we are to prevent people from travelling, we must ensure that they are properly taken care of in those countries. My services are constantly negotiating agreements and arrangements to promote return. I will have a number of bilateral diplomatic talks with countries of origin in the coming weeks and I will also continue to negotiate at Benelux level, where someone will take the lead in turn. I stand by it, and the best way to make progress in this area is to create a European block. That is what the experience in the United States teaches me, by the way. When the question was asked in New York how one does it when a country makes trouble, the answer was that the block goes on for a few weeks, and then it's resolved. Maybe it's not solved forever and ever, but then they do it again. Europe must realise that if we want to solve the problem, it is a question of putting the block on it and forming a front as a European Union. Then we'll be rid of a lot of misery. Today we are trying to find our way in the desert a little bit at a time. We are only making it more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u58	I fully agree with you, Mr Secretary of State, and you are right to point out that many refugees are already being received in their own region: 90% remain in the region, 5% or 10% travel through. A few years ago, I talked to our Prime Minister's father about this for a long time. According to him, we must dare to think about giving up any prosperity to invest in those countries. If only a fraction of Nigeria's population are left, with 300 million people fleeing because of famine, Europe is facing a very serious problem. So maybe we should. We are indeed doing the best we can in a European context. Indeed, the individual countries cannot do that. It takes a lot of political courage to achieve a European asylum and migration policy as well as a European development cooperation policy to impose the block on it, and then the problem has indeed been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a few questions about the news that you are aspiring the Presidency of your party. Of course, you're free to do or leave whatever you want, you're a free man. It is true, however, that you have said several times that you will be Secretary of State for the entire term of the legislature and that you do not have the ambition to lead your party. However, you will now come back to your words, at a time when your policy area cannot be replaced. The asylum centers are chock-full. There is currently a major asylum crisis and your budgets are swinging out and breaking all the records. Return statistics are dramatic and the dossier is also dramatic. In fact, only a thousand decisions were taken in one month, while thousands of asylum applications were made. You will also be faced with the Ukraine crisis, which you have somehow pushed into the lap of the Länder and cities and municipalities. However, it is your job to coordinate, Mr Secretary of State. You have the big task of getting that policy domain under control in a good way, cleaning up the mess and doing your work every day in your policy area. However, you choose the flight ahead and have decided to leave your policy domain and that mess. I find that very regrettable. You promised other things. When you first came here, you showed a very ambitious video in which you made a lot of promises, the 'big yards of Mahdi'. You also referred to the flow of refugees from the Second World War and the way things would be smoother. You have spent a year and a half trying to defend a policy and set a line, which in practice often turned out to be nothing more than hollow words. The Migration Code, your biggest assignment, didn't work either. How will you ensure continuity in your policy area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u60	Mr Francken, I understand your question. After all, there are parties where the President is appointed for life. There are other parties where that comes with an election. In our party it happens in that second way. But I have every respect for parties that use the Chinese doctrine. Of course you can. Some of your questions are justified. Some of them I find a bit short on the bend. But that is allowed in Parliament, and that is part of it. You said you didn't realize the Migration Code. Mr Francken, you've known spicy years on Asylum and Migration. You also know that one of the difficulties of those spicy years was that you were able to achieve little in structural terms, including in the case of the closed centres, but also in the case of the Migration Code, which unfortunately nothing has happened. You also know that its architecture has now been approved and that a committee has been set up with academics who are currently working on the Migration Code. If one is active as a member of the government, one must ensure that the policy is not just about the member of the government, but about people who can shape the policy. Today, the Migration Code is provided thanks to that committee and to the services that have been given the assignment. We have just talked about how difficult it is to invest in personnel at the Foreign Affairs Office, at the CVGS and at the RVV in times of labour shortages. But they have invested in them, and they are still investing in them. After all, we need all these people. It is important that we continue to invest in our services and that there is a continuity of policies, which must be guaranteed. I am pleased that you indicate that you are hoping for continuity of policy. Well, then that's a good thing. I would just like to point out that if I become President, because there are still elections at first, I will, of course, continue to look at how the lines should be drawn from the party and from the various competent ministers and secretaries of state. In addition, I will have to leave a team of hyper-engaged, talented, strong people in my cabinet, who will continue their work there and who will have to ensure that the major structural reforms that are so necessary are further developed. After all, there are still very important times ahead, apart from the war in Ukraine. Major reforms are needed in our country, including in the area of migration. For example, the results of the audit will soon arrive and the question will arise as to how we deal with our various services. We will have to think carefully about how we will develop the future architecture of asylum and migration policy, which you rightly like to talk about. For that work there is a whole team, but you can count on my commitment and my enthusiasm. You can also count on my heart for this department. I won't let go of Asylum and Migration. In this respect, we can understand each other: once people have worked in this department and started doing this with great passion and courage, that department will never be left entirely behind. They continue to do so every day, and I will continue to do so in a different role, should that be so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, I do not consider the problems under water, but as far as infrastructure is concerned, I do not think you have achieved any additional place so far. I tried that. You've made an action plan. You didn't realize the migration code either. We will wait and see how that will land. That won't be until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u62	(without microphone)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u63	The timing of your possible departure is very unfortunate. The policy area really needs continuity. If people leave after a year and a half because they are called to another position, I understand that, but I am in favour of stability when it comes to leadership over a party. That's what I've always said and never put under any chairs or benches. Personally, I think that a right-wing party is best led in the long term by someone with a long-term vision. Bart De Wever has that vision. I don't think anyone's questioning that. One can dispute the vision, but one cannot say that he has no vision. In that sense, therefore, I absolutely agree with you when you say that we are opting for a model in which stability also radiates peace. I think this is not a problem in our party for the time being, unlike yours, but it can change everything. So you're leaving. You say I will regret that. Maybe you do, because you have the commitment. Someone will have to take office at a very difficult time in our history to take over asylum policy. That'll eat angry cherries. In meetings of the European Council, I have always been annoyed by the changes in staff for asylum and migration. After all, you yourself have said that it is not easy to see new people every time one comes together. It is not so easy to follow which ministers now hold post after elections, the fall of a government or a resignation because of some ambition or personal problems. In fact, it would be better to sit there for a longer period with the same people. This would be best for European asylum policy. I think we can agree on that. So now there's another fracture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u64	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u65	That is the abstinence you did not want to give us, which is complete, but completely aberrant. Anyway, we'll see how this government goes down in the end. It is still a long time, I hope that the 2% for the Defense Department can be guaranteed. I look forward to other files as well. After a year and a half, after all the promises and ambitions, I think you have become a lot more realistic. Anyway, we all learn that, every day, in this impossible country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I was in the beautiful Machelen-Diegem, but I must say that the magnificent Machelen-Diegem faces enormous challenges. Our party is part of the majority and I was able to speak to our ships there. It was a real cri de coeur from the municipal board of Machelen-Diegem. There are immense challenges in terms of integration, integration, society, crime, diversity. They can't be counted anymore. I've seen numbers of our ships from Education. There are more than 80% foreign speakers in a particular school. I am a pedagogue and believe in a healthy social mix, but also a healthy language mix, I have no problem with that. Homogeneity may no longer be of this world, but 80 % of foreign speakers, many of whom belong to 1 or 2 nationalities, is also homogeneity, but then not Dutch-speaking homogeneity. The question is whether this works so well in the end. Machelen-Diegem can no longer handle it, one drowns there completely in the Brussels, fray and alienation of the municipality. People are pulling the alarm bell. This is not done in a discriminatory, racist way, but in a way in which people try to make the most of it with a great heart for their own people and for the newcomers. You are now opening a large asylum centre there, 300 or more places. You know that there are very many objections to the College. The city council, including your party CD&V, is unisono in rejecting this new asylum center. After all, there is already one nearby, in Zaventem, just on the border. Moreover, Haren will soon open, with the entrance to the prison in Machelen-Diegem. She's in Brussels, but she's on the Haachtse Steenweg. So there's already a lot of pressure on that municipality. Mr Mahdi, I know that you are not blind to this problem. Would you please consult with the municipality and not open the asylum centre there, but look at other alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u67	Mr Francken, I will not read out my prepared answer. You were also Secretary of State. You have also experienced times when you had to open shelters, which is not always obvious. You've done the same in your own congregation. It's never easy. I contacted the mayor of Machelen when I made the announcement. That first contact was actually pretty positive. The mayor was not reluctant, but he did have some legitimate questions for which we want to find solutions together. The willingness to sit around the table and watch us solve something must be there. As a pedagogue, you think there should be a healthy mix, and I understand that. If you argue this as an argument not to open a shelter in Machelen, that I know quite well because I live not far from it, then you are actually saying that there should no longer be a reception centre in Brussels. We have to take into account the healthy mix, but in most of the Brussels neighbourhoods a lot of young people are speaking differently. This means that there can be no more reception centres in Brussels. I don't think this is your position. In my opinion, it has to do with the region we are talking about. You may, of course, contradict me, because this is really not meant as an attack. It is a reception centre in Machelen-Diegem, Flemish Brabant. It's an area we both know very well. Why are you specifically against this shelter, from all the centres you have never asked a question about individually, because you also know how difficult it is? Locally, there will always be issues that need to be taken into account. Why do you specifically fish this center? I believe that this has to do with political reasons, which would not be so neat. However, please do not contradict me if it is not. This also concerns a shelter which is not located in the centre of Machelen. That's what I've been looking at. It's in a rather secluded area. Some people don't like it being isolated and want these people in the center, with everyone. That is not wrong, taking into account the challenges that Machelen already has with the Brussels oil spill. The concerns about integration living locally must be taken into account. We are doing a lot of work on this dossier. The willingness to speak with local government is absolutely there. I did the same thing in Saint-Laureins. I invited these people to the cabinet and talked to them for a long time about the existing concerns and how we can deal with them. When sitting around the table with a municipality, it can be explained what the opportunities can be to guarantee extra security, to allow associations to participate, perhaps even to fill in a number of jobs where there is a shortage of staff. Is there any willingness to sit around the table? I'd love to. Is that a good idea? I think you're wise enough to know that no mayor has ever called you to say that he thought it was a good idea because the municipality had the ideal location. One will say not to be ideally located because it is a rural area and one has to take five buses to go to the center. That's too hard. We can't do that here. The other will say it's a big city. Just think of Antwerp with a lot of diversity and in the end those refugees will come to us. You also know that this is how it goes. I hope we can find a partner in each other because as an expert in experience we know that there is a lot of work in the department. There is a lot of structural work to be done to change policy on influx. When it comes to the reception of persons entitled to international protection, we must take full account of the concerns that exist at local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, it is right that I do not ask questions about individual asylum centres. I know how hard that is. I didn't ask any questions when the people of Ypres and Saint-Laureins contacted me. I didn't ask any questions about Lommel. I didn't ask any questions about Kalmthout. The asylum centre there is done, with a private partner, but it is not opened because the mayor, with an absolute majority of CD&V, does not want that. That's weird. I didn't ask any questions about that. However, this is a separate problem. You are triggering me there with a very interesting intellectual exercise. Should a large asylum centre of more than 300 people open in the Channel Zone, in the centre of Borgerhout? No. That's a completely wrong idea. You shouldn't do that there. Should there be an asylum centre in Uccle, in St. Peter's-Woluwe, in Watermaal-Bosvoorde? Why not? There are 19 municipalities in Brussels. We are always talking about Brussels. Where in Brussels, then, are they asking? I know places in Brussels where people can reasonably live in French language. At the Sunny Forest, around Overijse, one can perfectly set up an asylum centre. That's gonna be okay. Should we set up an asylum centre in Molenbeek? I don't think that's such a good idea. Why not? Because these people are sent to Dutch and French schools, where it is very difficult for an average teacher to teach in a decent way. In Machelen-Diegem, the ships of education just told me that I can't do it anymore. In each school, the numbers are high, but in one school, 82% of children are foreign speakers. Those ships tell me they just can't handle it. I don't care if we don't like the kids, because for me, the whole world can come here, but we can't take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u69	Mr Francken, when you exercised the competence of asylum and migration, did you never open a reception centre in a municipality where more than 50% had a different home language than Dutch?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u70	That's a good question. I should check that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u71	I think so, too. I myself was born and raised in the south of Brussels and I went to school in Oudergem. I understand your reasoning, because in specific districts of St Lambrechts-Woluwe and Uccle there is an effective homogeneous French-speaking bourgeoisie. Those people know where to find each other, also because of the high house prices. I would like to leave aside the fact that the international community and European institutions are also taking over in such neighbourhoods. But even in Oudergem, where I have studied, the home language in 50% of the cases nowadays is absolutely no longer Dutch or, in this case in Oudergem, French. That's just reality. If that's supposed to be the angle, then it's not possible. This also applies to Borgerhout and many of the neighbourhoods in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, perhaps we should think about that. I think it is an interesting debate. There is such a thing as the capacity of a local community. The capacity of a small local community can be exceeded by the opening of a large asylum centre with hundreds of places. I think it's fair for mayors to question that. That is why I understand very well that the mayor of Machelen-Diegem says that it simply cannot do so anymore and asks to look for another location.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u73	Are you sure you can do it in Lubbeek?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u74	In Lubbeek, yes. You may come and find a location. I haven't seen any of Fedasil's camionettes. The place where there was an asylum centre is not going, as I told you. On 1 June we will open a summer house for Ukrainians; that is now ready. We will do our best to do so. We had a big place for an asylum centre with some 200 places, but it is not free now. We couldn't use that building for the Ukraine crisis either. That building belongs to an intercommunal unit, and it's now occupied. You know that too, because I have no doubt that Fedasil has already looked at Lubbeek. Anyway, I think the asylum centre in Machelen is really a different matter. You ask me if I have ever opened centres in a similar way. I'm gonna have to think this through. That does not mean that I had always thought it was a good idea. You say your door is open for consultation. I will therefore propose to our people that they request this consultation later. I think there are a few things that can happen. In terms of capacity, it already means a big difference when it comes to 320 or 150 reception places. The next point is who will end up. What is the allocation rules? Are there gonna be families with kids? Who's gonna go there? Especially in the field of education, it is necessary to consider the possibility of additional support, possibly with Mr Weyts. I went to speak almost everywhere where there were centers. I know the besognes you may not be awake to, and I understand you're not satisfied with. I spoke in Lubbeek for 1,000 men and they were very angry at me, but a few years later I was elected mayor. That's all about, I can place that. The cri de coeur of those ships and of those people in the room, that really caught me after all these years of experience on the ground. That is why I tabled that question. I promised them that and I'll give them the report in a minute. I really hope that they will be able to contact you and that perhaps the Flemish Minister for Education, Mr Weyts, will be able to see whether, if the centre really needs to be opened, a number of buttons can still be turned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u75	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I come back to you with a question that has already been asked to you several times by my colleagues. Why, while in 2019 more than 90 per cent of asylum applications from El Salvador were granted, has that figure fallen to 10 per cent since 2020? Secretary of State, I would ask you not to hide behind the independence of the CGRA or behind the individual nature of the decisions taken. When statistics go from 90% to 10%, there is no question of individual and independent decisions, but of a real change in policy. Either El Salvador has suddenly become certain, but I think you have never supported this statement; or it is a complete change in the policy of the CGRA, and that falls within your competence. If I return to you today, it is because this 2nd May, I was arrested, in my small town of Marche-en-Famenne, by a family from El Salvador, disbanded by the negative end of his asylum procedure, and who is in complete incomprehension. Both parents and children have become so integrated in social life as in school, employers and friends are mobilizing today to support the family in this ordeal. Without going into the bottom of the file, because it's not your responsibility, my questions are as follows. By what miracle or by what policy decision, the CGRA passed, between 2019 and 2020, from 90% to 10% of recognition of refugee status for applicants from El Salvador? Has an analysis of this development been carried out by CGRA or your firm? What was the result? Is it recognized or not that Salvadoran gangs are a threat to the entire Salvadoran population? Is it accepted or not that the police still cannot, to date, effectively protect their population, for lack of resources or because of corruption? Is it recognized that one of the major activities of these gangs is the sex trade of girls? It was about the daughter of the family I met. While respecting the independence of the CGRA - I also respect it - what view do you have on how the credibility of asylum seekers is appreciated? Do they have to prove that they asked the police for help, and that it is not normal to ask for help from a corrupt police force? Or should they not seek such protection and be criticized as well? Finally, what are your current contacts with CGRA? Do you intend, in keeping with its independence, to remind it of Belgium's international obligations with regard to the protection of persons at risk, particularly when it comes to minors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u76	My colleague, as I have already indicated in response to other questions, and I must repeat it, the assessment of the need for international protection falls within the competence of the independent bodies, the CGRA at first and the Aliens Litigation Council in the event of an appeal. The assessment of the dossiers shall take into account the situation in the country of origin, taking into account the information available on this subject and the individual elements referred to by the applicant. This assessment is made in the light of the criteria laid down by law and by international conventions. For this reason, and respect for the independence of these bodies, it is not appropriate for me or the government to intervene with these bodies with regard to the policy pursued or the jurisprudence rendered. Nor is it up to me to comment on or evaluate the evolution of a country's protection rate or to judge how these bodies appreciate the credibility of the stories submitted to them. Nor would it be appropriate for me to rule on whether or not the policy pursued by CGRA would be in violation of international obligations or conventions. For your information, this competence is vested in the EAC. It is therefore up to the ERC to see whether the CGRA takes decisions that are not based on international conventions, to decide and to ensure that the decision is reviewed in this regard. At the same time, I am still thinking of two elements. Firstly, we must not forget that for some countries - perhaps I am not talking about El Salvador, or perhaps a little - when we talk about a very small number, the fact that there are four or five families of four or five people can change everything. The fact that the four families receive a negative response can quickly shift from a very high amount to a very low amount and vice versa. After that, the assessment of the CGRA is always done individually and they evaluate the country each year on the basis of the reports they receive at international and European level. I have to clarify something because it raises concerns in my home. I understand the fact that we decide on a particular case because we know someone, a family that is well integrated. But integration is not an element that leads to international protection. At the same time, deciding on a particular case still seems dangerous to me. You always have to wonder how you'd react if it was the other side that did the same. One imagines someone from El Salvador who is receiving international protection, and another political party who comes here to ask why this person has received his protection. "I've heard that... and in addition to that, he or she..." It's dangerous! We must be very proud of the independence of the CGRA. I repeat it all the time. We are one of the only countries in the European Union to have that philosophy, and that is really the pride of our country. Tomorrow we can have a completely different policy, and yet protection will always be independently evaluated by the CGRA. If this is not done in the best possible way, our legal system allows us, thanks to the Litigation Council, to tap on the fingers of the CGRA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u77	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, even if it disappoints me. There is no question of calling into question the independence of the CGRA or that of the Litigation Board. We fully agree. But I can't hear you when you say it can be because of a development in the country. We know you and I, like the services of CGRA, that the situation has not changed at all since 2019 in this country. The number of applications from this country does not make it possible to panic the statistics simply because a family is or is not accepted. Mr Secretary of State, while it is necessary to respect its independence, you nevertheless have a duty to monitor the possible malfunctions of this institution. When rates change so significantly and for no other reason, you have to act. In fact, you yourself said this in a reply to Mr Rigot on 5 February 2021: "It is one of my priorities and also of the government to carry out this audit of asylum and migration services in order to achieve an even more efficient system. I always said I wanted to get to it quickly. For now, we are preparing this audit." This audit, whether carried out or not, must also concern possible malfunctions in the way in which certain files are evaluated, not on an individual level, but on a more general level. Secretary of State, yesterday's unprotected refugees are today's undocumented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u78	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55027808C) by Mr Roggeman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Platteau's 5502721C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, just before the beginning of this committee the answer to my written question came to the fore. This shows that there is an increase in the number of violent incidents in the transport of migrants and that the people of the Foreign Affairs Office are more often the victims of violence. In 2021, there were 8 such incidents during transport by the Foreign Affairs Office. We can ask ourselves whether more can be done to prevent such incidents, for example by offering a number of courses, for example by providing pepper spray or a baton or by other measures that could be taken, such as more adapted transport. As far as that is concerned, I'd like to hear your approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u80	Mr Van Langenhove, the safety of our staff is certainly a priority. I recently stopped by DVZ to look at the most secure vehicles they're transporting. It is quite spectacular to see how some people can escape through even the smallest holes. The vehicles are therefore increasingly protected in order to guarantee the safety of the staff and to ensure that no one can escape, which is also important. I've already sat with the unions, but I'd like to sit around the table with them to find out what else we can do and if extra training is needed. I know the staff gets training. It's not about combat training, it's about defensive training, where they learn how to hold someone in a hold, put someone on the ground and immobilize them. I am always willing to work with the services to see what is still needed to ensure safety. Many people simply cooperate, but sometimes they are not obvious assignments. In this respect, I think it is important to find out how we can ensure that staff can work safely every day and return home safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u81	What are the trade unions asking for in concrete terms? What are they putting on the table specifically in order to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u82	They think I do a great job. The demand was mainly for the right working conditions. I think this has played most of the part in the conversations we've had. They also asked that the cars be extra protected. That didn't happen so long ago, just to avoid anyone getting away. The covid rules have also made it very difficult to do their job. It is reassuring not to have to take these covid rules into account anymore. That means we're done with a number of concerns. The fact that people had to be transported who did not always have the best intentions and that they also had to comply with all kinds of covid measures meant that this has not been the most pleasant job in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u83	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55027947C and 55027949C by Mrs Platteau were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u84	Secretary of State, in an interview this weekend, you expressed your concern about the solidarity of the Walloon hosting companies that may be running out of steam. You are quite right in the sense that citizens have been and have been strongly mobilized to welcome Ukrainian refugees, just as in 2015 when many of our fellow citizens have also opened their doors to refugees, especially Syrians. It is therefore important to thank and stress the solidarity of all hosting companies for many years. Nevertheless, as you say in the interview, we must be careful about a fatigue effect of the hosting companies in Wallonia but also everywhere in Belgium, which is normal given the efforts made. The arrival of summer holidays is also a challenge, as many hosting companies will no longer want to host at that time. Mr Secretary of State, are new federal measures planned to contribute to the reception and integration of Ukrainian refugees? Will a new call for hosting be launched, like your previous social media campaign? Will the federal authority continue to place the majority of the burden of housing on the municipalities and the regions, or is there a reflection on our crisis response model and the role of the federal government planned? How can we anticipate the arrival of summer holidays in order to prevent many Ukrainian refugees from suddenly finding themselves without housing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u85	Mr Moutquin, it is indeed important to find lasting solutions for Ukrainians. As far as the federal level is concerned, the orientation of Ukrainian refugees from the registration centre is made by Fedasil, either through the Ariane Crisis Centre in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert or directly by the municipalities. This procedure does not require additional measures at this stage. However, the difficulties of regional and local actors in improving this process on a daily basis are taken into account as far as possible. Those who are ready to welcome Ukrainians are always invited to contact their commune to see how they can help. The federal level does not necessarily want to place the burden on the regions and municipalities, but it is simply a matter of competence. The federal level has provided and continues to make very important efforts in the management of this crisis, whether in the organization and management of the registration centre or in the search for emergency places and the referral by Fedasil of Ukrainian refugees to host families or other emergency reception facilities. As a result, the federal authority fully assumes its responsibilities. The same applies to Ms Lalieux's responsibility for CPAS. A commitment is therefore also made by the federal authority in this regard. We know our skills and we do what is necessary. Sustainable housing and the integration of persons who benefit from temporary protection and are therefore holders of a residence permit in our territory – such as recognized refugees – fall within regional competence. Therefore, once a Syrian refugee has been recognized, it is up to the Regions to assume their responsibilities in this regard. As agreed at a meeting with the various Ministers-Presidents and the Prime Minister, the Regions have committed to further stimulate the provision of sustainable spaces. Regular and constructive consultation with the Regions and the provinces, notably through the Coordinating Committee (COFECO) set up by the National Crisis Centre, makes it possible to assess the situation on an ongoing basis. For the holiday period, the situation is closely monitored to ensure that the reception places in the federal phase are sufficient. With regard to sustainable housing provided by the Regions, especially in the coming months, it is also important that it is sufficient in all regions. In relation to this, even if I don't want to "play the Flamand of service", I have a concern. While the attitude of those who are generous in temporarily welcoming refugees should be welcomed, structural and sustainable responses must be made. Because it's not obvious to anyone. I expect everyone to make an effort – I will no longer specify a Region, in any case not here in committee – without which problems could arise for both Ukrainians and host families. Sustainable places are needed for all concerned. Let's work on it by not turning to the federal government! I'm not saying that for you, Mr. Moutquin. The federal government is doing everything it needs to do in relation to CPAS, registration, crisis response, etc. I personally interviewed the Regions and asked them whether the government should take responsibility for launching the federal phase. Flanders replied in the negative and showed itself to be proactive at the outset. Some cities worked very quickly with private partners. I'm 100% sure everyone is able to do the same. It's really a matter of will. I'm always ready to try to give ideas and get around the table to see what you can do. Let's get out of a dynamic where we turn the ball and try to do what is necessary. It is to all these families who have committed themselves that we must think first and not institutional lasagna.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u86	I agree 100% with you. My question was not about pointing the culprits. I don't get into these games. Honestly, I think that Ukrainian refugees do not care about our institutional problems, other problems – and other refugees as well. My question was about trying to find solutions. At the very beginning of the crisis, when we were in a moment of tension, you had sparked a campaign, despite the fact that it was not a federal jurisdiction. There was an emergency, we had to find people, etc. This had worked despite the fact that skills were distributed differently. Indeed, a Region – I don't want to mention it – does not agree with an allocation plan or, rather, federal management. We can spend months discussing it here or elsewhere, we won't find a solution. Might as well move on. On the other hand, the situation in some regions has a particular context. Public housing in Wallonia has been an issue for years and solutions are very complicated, in a fiscal climate that is what it is. I'm really calling on you to find solutions. Are new coordination meetings to find solutions planned? We'll have to take stock of that. There was an emotion at the beginning of the crisis, but unfortunately it is coming back. There are almost some hospitality professionals who have been doing this for years and who know the consequences for the rest of the family but others may have improvised. I am not judging, but perhaps we should recreate a space for structural and collective accommodation. You said you had to embrace the philosophy of hospitality, including hosting. I hope that all our policies will remember this in the coming years when there are other conflicts, which I do not wish to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u87	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you were present in New York for the first evaluation of the Global Compact on Migration. On this occasion, you said that your main message was addressed to the countries of origin and, in particular, that there should be no negotiations on return, because it is an international obligation. A Belgian action plan was also proposed for the next four years. Bilateral meetings were planned during your stay in New York with a number of countries of origin. Which countries were specifically concerned here? So, what did these meetings bring in concrete results? What were the reactions? Were there any concrete commitments made? If so, which one? During your visit you also proposed the Belgian action plan for the next four years. What does this action plan mean in concrete terms? Following this initial evaluation, a progress report was also adopted. I would also like to get some explanation on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u88	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, I did indeed participate last week, as head of the Belgian delegation, in the first global review of the Global Compact on Migration. In addition to the general discussion and the Belgian speech at the UN General Assembly, I also considered it important to speak with colleagues from other countries in the margins of the conference. There were formal bilateral talks with Egypt, Gambia, Vietnam, Colombia, Congo and Moldova. In addition, there were conversations with many other countries in the corridors, in combination with conversations we had had a few days earlier at the Department of Foreign Affairs. After all, a conference of consuls-general took place, with consuls from all over the world working in Belgium. The aim was to improve relations with different countries. It is about those countries that are regularly discussed here in committee. I also had a meeting with the Director-General of the IOM. There was also a meeting with fellow ministers from the European Union. That meeting was convened by Commissioner Johansson. Belgium has indeed submitted an action plan. This is a public document, which will be available for consultation on the relevant website of the UN Migration Network. The Belgian action plan focuses on 6 of the 23 objectives, and we have selected 6 of them. The first is about investments in evidence-based policies, figures, the right facts and figures. Secondly, we want to work on the specific migration pathways. This goes hand in hand with the fight against illegal employment of migrants. Thirdly, Belgium is placing the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings at the centre. Fourthly, we want to continue working on the return of irregular migrants and their sustainable reintegration into the country of origin. Finally, linked to this, we will work towards the conclusion of partnerships and agreements with other countries. That's how I named five. Only trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings have been divided up again, which makes us six, if I am not mistaken. As I have pointed out on several occasions, migration management is not done alone. This requires cooperation. At the final session of the International Migration Forum, the UN Member States adopted a first progress report on the Global Compact by consensus. The Declaration confirms the collective ambition of all governments to ensure that migration is conducted in a safe, orderly and regulated manner. This text will also be published on the appropriate website. However, I would like to warn you already. Like all other documents or most documents that can be consulted on the United Nations website, they will be full of many things that you can read in the direction you want and with which you can do whatever you want. You can go through with that or leave the government. That choice is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u89	Mr Secretary of State, I once participated in the Model United Nations in New York, where you went. That is where I have been able to find out in person that this is quite an art. It is a separate jargon and a separate language, with the aim of telling as little as possible with as many words as possible. So if you have had such a one-on-one or one-on-one conversation with the representative of the Gambia, for example, which is a very interesting country, since it is the only country that has been subject to the long-awaited sanctions of the European Union in the meantime, then I am genuinely interested in its effect. Do there seem to be any mentality changes in Gambia? Is the country on the verge of cooperating with the European Union and taking back their illegal nationals? Did you notice during the conversation that the sanctions did something or didn't?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u90	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the Gambia case is interesting to discuss. I'm not sure to what extent I can give you all the details of the conversation. The country has been sanctioned, but because it is so small and feels so little impact, I do not know if the collective sanctions of the European Union have brought about so much. Therefore, both must always be done. The European Union has sanctioned the Gambia. I insist that these sanctions are a good thing. However, did they spontaneously bring about a change in Gambia's policy? That is not the case. For this to happen, Europe must continue to send out a stronger signal. However, in conjunction with the conversation I had with Gambia, after which I cannot of course say that everything is going to be okay, diplomatic relations can be developed when we sit around the table with Gambia. In such discussions, we can talk about what is good and what is wrong. So there are opportunities. I'm sharing an anecdote that I found interesting. When there were problems in Gambia, all airlines except Sabena left. "Brussels never left," they said. We are extremely grateful for that. This means that we are trying to indicate that we have indeed been there for them, but that we also have some files that we consider important. So I think that one can get things done in a respectful way, even though that is not always the case. Often it is a combination of the root and the stick.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u91	For the rest, I'm gonna drop my reply, just to be clear. I have a very brief question about the sanctions that have now been imposed on Gambia. Do you have the impression that this has brought about something in other countries? Are they going to change their attitude now, with the danger that they could be sanctioned in a subsequent round, which unfortunately will not be completed until one year later?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u92	In fact, I find this forward and forward pongs as a concept much better than the approach with long questions, answers and replies. This is more interesting. My answer is yes. During the first round, where a number of countries were on the long list and could possibly end up on the black list, there is a feeling that a lot of proactivity is starting to emerge. Countries that are convinced that they are on the long list want to show that they are doing their best not to be blacklisted. Last year, our services noticed this tremendously. That is all the more reason to be ambitious in this area and to push things a little further than just Gambia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u93	I agree with you when you say that this is a better way to debate things, but some French speakers were already looking angry in my direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u94	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of March you announced that you would build four new closed centres, two of which had already been established by the previous government. This decision came after "big negotiations" within the government: I paraphrase what has been said about it in the press. A concession you had to make for this, again according to the press, was the withdrawal of the Royal Decree of 22 July 2018. That KB makes it possible to lock up minors. If I'm not mistaken, KB still hasn't moved in. I have just one question for you, Mr Secretary of State, do you still intend to withdraw the Royal Decree of 22 July 2018? If so, when will you do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u95	Ms Daems, the Royal Decree of 22 July 2018 introduced in the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002 on the operation of the closed centres a number of provisions regulating the arrangements for the detention of families with minor children in family homes in closed centres. Those provisions in the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002 on the arrangements for the detention of families with minor children in closed centres can indeed be lifted. However, I would like to point out that a number of articles have already been destroyed by the Council of State today and can therefore no longer be applied. In other words, the lifting you are talking about is a purely technical issue, although I understand that symbols can be important. It does not change the fact that these provisions are no longer applicable today, apart from the government agreement, which agreed that no children would be held in closed centres. Mrs Daems, if you have any questions, I'd be more than happy to play ping-pong with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u96	Mr Secretary of State, you say that withdrawing the KB is merely a symbol. I think it is important, because perhaps I still have one more question for you. Clearly, you said in your policy statement that there would be no more detention of minors within a migration context. However, nothing stands in the way of another government applying that KB. Is it still possible or no longer possible to lock up children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u97	No, if you were to withdraw the KB. But whether that is in a KB, in a law or anywhere else, politics can always decide differently in a new reign. A number of aspects have therefore already been withdrawn from the Royal Decree because they are no longer legally valid. Today, therefore, it is mainly technical, and also symbolic. You say, "If you withdraw the KB, another government can't do that anymore." As the most important decision we have made with the government in the coalition agreement, but the next government can perfectly create a new KB. It is symbolic because the next government can change everything again, but that applies to everything, not just to asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic796x.u98	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the explanation. Even if it is symbolic for you, I think it is important to withdraw it.
