ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4th 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 May 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that there are two questions about the imminent execution of Professor Djalali. So we will soon have the Prime Minister's reply and the government's answer. However, I would like to ask you a question about the groups. May I invite you to take an initiative from the Chamber, following the resolutions that have already been adopted, so that we can send a signal in the plenary at the latest next week? I am convinced that this will be supported on a wide scale. I think it is important, in the light of events, that the Chamber should express its opinion on this matter, regardless of what the government will say in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u4	Mr De Roover, I asked you to prepare a letter. The Senate President and myself will sign them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, at home financial affairs are becoming normal for more and more people. However, that is not without risk. It is therefore a good thing that Febelfin was able to announce the decline in the number of successful attempts at phishing fraud the day before yesterday. As much as nine million euros were taken less than the year before. That is a quarter less than in 2020, and that is a good thing. Banking monitoring, awareness campaigns and good cooperation between different stakeholders have contributed to this and demonstrate the importance of good cooperation. At the same time, however, we must not be blind to the great amount of work on the table. Fraudsters abuse vulnerable people. Colleagues, unfortunately, a lot of people are financially vulnerable in the present time. They are vulnerable to beautiful offers that unfortunately cannot be realised. They are bombarded with e-mails, phones, texts and even by letter. It's too much to mention. With one simple click on a website that seems legitimate, all data can be stolen. Prime Minister, you know as well as I do that in 2021 EUR 25 million was taken. That is money that can only be stolen because our society demands that more and more people handle their business digitally. That requires a firm approach. With Vooruit we want a structural approach that protects people online. Prime Minister, we are all vulnerable. That is why I have the following question for you. What additional actions are you planning with the government to stop this new form of fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u6	Mr Moyaers, thank you for the very pertinent question. As you said yourself, we are all vulnerable. It's not just about people who have digitally less experience. In the end, we are all vulnerable to phishing. Within the cybersecurity strategy, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) has highlighted phishing as a priority. It doesn't just do that, by the way, but together with Febelfin. The sector subscribes to this, along with the Cyber Security Coalition. Our approach is one in which the government cooperates with the providers of critical infrastructure and with the financial sector. One of my initiatives is the Safeonweb app that I recommend everyone to install. It is a very current source to get information about the latest phishing campaigns. They're collected by the Cybersecurity Center. There's information there. It is interesting to check, for example once a week, what are the latest cheating methods used, and thus get a little sensitivity to the theme. In the end, that's the point. We should all get the healthy reflex in our digital life, which has become a part of our total life, in matters that look a little suspicious, or in matters that look a little too good to be true, always be particularly careful and pass them on to the Cybersecurity Centre. You will also have noticed that this government has also made funds available for this. In this year's budget, 5 million was made available in addition, and another 6 million in budgetary control. In the European Investment Fund, we have invested 79 million in cyber security. Cybersecurity is an essential element of the new National Security Strategy that has been adopted. But the real security strategy is one where we are all alert together and take action when we see something suspicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u7	Prime Minister, your efforts and those of the government will be supported by the tabling of a resolution. However, I would like to draw attention to a curious trend which I have also identified in my province. There are considerable differences in speed of operation between police zones. Reporting fraud to the police is quite a difficult matter, as it requires some specific knowledge. In my police area, a very large one - there is sufficient knowledge in this area. However, I note that this is much more difficult for smaller police areas. The way in which people are protected as citizens should not depend on the size of the police area. I can only stress the importance of a good exchange of practices in order to pass on information efficiently, because this battle can only be won if we run it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the blue light, Guy Verhofstadt, and the red Johan Vande Lanotte sold Electrabel to Suez in 2007, now ENGIE, Electrabel has become a Flemish milk cow. A milk cow that grazes here, which is fattened here, but is milked in Paris. Last week, we saw that they spent EUR 1.24 billion of these usury profits on the French millionaires, as you would like to call it, Mr Hedebouw. Minister, what is the result of our energy problems? Inflation has risen to more than 8%. If we take out the energy and the petroleum, we'll only get 2%. What are we doing? We can't afford the electricity anymore. Last week, I heard all the parties, in May speeches, talking about the rich tax, purchasing power contributions, over-profit contributions and even the green army's contribution to war. My question is whether you will be raising taxes now, Minister. What's this over-profit contribution gonna be? What will be the purchasing power contribution? We live in a country where 54% of what we produce already goes back to the government, with a total tax burden of 43% of our GDP, after France and Denmark the highest in the world, with taxes on labour, Mr Communists, of 41.2%. But also a tax on capital, Mr Hedebouw, of 40% and even a corporation tax of 25%. In short, what will happen to increase purchasing power?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u9	Mr Dedecker, if you look at inflation in our country and throughout Europe, you will see that inflation is driven by energy prices. However, in the United States it is more of a monetary phenomenon. The fact that inflation is driven by energy does not necessarily have to do with one company or another. We can see across Europe that raw materials have increased. That is why we have repeatedly urged the European Commission to tackle the problem of gas and oil prices at the root. So we want to avoid being forced as countries to buy energy expensively in international markets because, for example, countries are being played against each other. We must do this in group and use our European dimension. We must also look at measures such as price cap when we see that price increases are no longer justified. We have also taken measures in our country. I will not go into detail about the package of more than EUR 3 billion of measures we have taken to try to get the energy price down. In my view, the main element on which we speak too little in our country is an automatic mechanism: indexation. In other countries we are beginning to negotiate today what we could do to increase wages. In our country, that's something that happens automatically. We are in other countries; we are protecting our citizens from rising prices. That's about amounts that make a difference. For example, if one looks at the salary of a child carer or carer, one can see that they had a wage of, for example, EUR 1,850 at the beginning of the year. Now they have 100 euro net more. A couple that earns 3,700 net, for example, already has 180 euros net more since the beginning of the year. In other countries, action is being taken in our country to protect people from the loss of purchasing power. It is therefore a question of purchasing power, but of course it is also a question of competitiveness. Competitiveness, job creation and maintaining these jobs are tomorrow's purchasing power. That is a balance in our country in which we protect people today. If we compare this with other countries, we can see that we are doing better today than in other countries where we are still waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u10	Prime Minister, you are getting rid of it easily in terms of energy. We pay to France. You are talking about the international prize, but what have the French done? They've done a price freeze. They have set a maximum on the price of electricity. And what do we do? We'll pay for the French. The profits that are made here go to Paris and we pay for it. You are bound with your hands and feet on the basis of the dependency of ENGIE, because you now have to get back to Paris on your knees to keep the nuclear power stations open and to lose your money in gas plants. That's where the dog is bound, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u11	Prime Minister, there is a sixth package of sanctions on the table against Putin's regime. These are financial sanctions, whereby the Russian banks are thrown out of the international banking system, and economic sanctions through the oil embargo, which is hitting the financing of Putin's war. This shows once again the unity and strength of Europe, which we welcome. We need to pull the same lever. A survey in De Standaard shows that we are all in favour of these sanctions, but we need to stay alert. The companies are in severe weather. It was already not easy during the corona crisis and with this war it has become much more difficult. Entrepreneurs must necessarily seek new supply channels, reinvent themselves and seek other solutions. They must also deal with the immense increase in fuel, energy and labour costs. Fortunately, the impact on families would be limited in the long term, as a study by Ghent University shows. However, the sanctions imposed on citizens in their pockets also affect the economy. Citizens and businesses must keep a cool head together and policies must be able to reassure society with realistic action. After all, sanctions are not the real problem, they are the war. I hope that we can learn how to gain more economic independence and self-reliance, so that we can cope better with a crisis of such price increases in the future. Prime Minister, how can you reassure us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u12	Mrs Verhelst, as you know, there is a sixth package of sanctions on the table today, in which our country has played a very active role. For example, our country has developed the financial sanctions to completely decouple the largest Russian state bank from international payments on the basis of the knowledge we have of SWIFT, among other things. Of course, we want to be able to hit the Kremlin's war chest directly. We are doing so through the full phasing out of Russian oil imports by the end of the year and the accelerated phasing out of our dependence on Russian gas. The European Union is decoupling itself from Russian energy step by step. That is a good thing. We are doing this step by step, because we want to avoid pushing our own European economy right into a recession, which is possible if we do this too abruptly. That would make life unnecessarily difficult for our citizens. In the end, it would not help the Ukrainians if Europe were in a very difficult position. I'll plead for solidarity. The European Union has shown in recent months that it can take decisions as one block. That consensus is the opposite of what Russia expected. Russia had expected us to be played apart, but we succeed in adopting sanctions packages that all 27 European countries support over and over again. If we are to take such drastic measures, we must also think today about how our people and our companies can deal with them. That was our plea to the European Commission. We want more ambition at that level. We want clarity today about how we can supply ourselves with oil if it does not come from Russia. We want clarity today about how we will collectively buy, so that one country does not bid against another. That is why, as in the case of gas, we need to be able to take measures such as price caps. Action must be taken as a European bloc. We must also protect our people in full solidarity and act as a European bloc.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. This was not a one-two, but we could perhaps expect such an answer from a prime minister who represents our voice in Europe in all caution and very deliberate manner. It is now very important that we look in solidarity at the solutions for our country. After all, it is certainly not easy for the companies. Mr Dermagne, please get to work to get people to work, while there is still work to be done and we are still economically self-sufficient. We need to join forces, and everyone in Europe needs to move forward in order to be able to do this. Hopefully, everyone will support these solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for six years now, and that is something in human life, Professor Djalali has been stuck in an Iranian cell without any kind of fair trial, without the necessary medical assistance, without contact with the family. Yesterday we received a very disturbing message from his wife. The execution would be imminent, the date would be no later than 21 May. It is therefore clear that Iran is using a hostage diplomacy to defend its interests. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is not easily united, but two years ago, in December 2020, our resolution was supported by all political groups and unanimously adopted in the hemisphere. Meanwhile, everyone has continued to fight, together, to get him out of the Iranian cell. For six years, every assembly, together with the family, has been fighting to get him out. Now Iran is increasing the pressure and we still need to move a gear up. Prime Minister, it is of the utmost importance that everyone at every level should do what is possible to prevent the execution of the sentence. This has happened in the past and we believe that it needs to be increased. The execution must not be carried out. Prime Minister, how will you, national, international and European, use all the means to unite the man who is Professor, that family father with his wife, his children, his family and his many friends?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u15	I will be honest, Prime Minister, I would rather not have been here today. I would have preferred to ask my question in committee. Then it was a question full of hope, because two British-Iranian citizens had been released. That hope came to an abrupt end yesterday, when Iran announced through its press office that Professor Djalali will be executed by 21 May at the latest. It is cruel, horrible and unacceptable what Iran is doing. Without a fair trial, without a proper right to defence, a man is sentenced to death. Furthermore, Professor Djalali is living in appalling and inhuman conditions. Access to medical care is denied him and several times we received the message that he is being tortured. Iran has already leveraged Professor Djalali several times to force Belgium and Sweden to make concessions. They wanted to exchange him against terrorists Assadi and Nouri, who were convicted respectively in Belgium and Sweden. It is no coincidence that today Assadi's trial began in the court of appeal. An exchange would only encourage the regime to use international prisoners as a passport in negotiations. A colleague of Professor Djalali, Professor Gerlant van Berlaer, put it as follows: "It bears witness to a great disdain for humanity when you constantly use double-national prisoners as coins and threaten them with execution to put pressure on other countries." How will Belgium stop the imminent execution, that atrocity? Will Belgium and the European Union react vigorously if Iran implements its plans effectively? Will you stop pleading for the nuclear deal? What is your view on further trade relations with Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u16	Thank you both for the questions about the Iranian-Swedish Professor Djalali. The fate of Dr Djalali affects public opinion throughout the world and also in our country. We all know that the man in our country has been active for some time at the Free University of Brussels. As indicated, he was arrested in 2016 on suspicion of espionage in relation to foreign enemies. Dr Djalali has always denied these accusations and has always indicated that they have been enforced on the basis of torture. Our country has been in contact with Iran several times over the last few years in order to avoid that execution. The Foreign Affairs Office has been following the situation for years at the administrative level and at the political level. We have always argued at political level not to carry out that execution, we have always informed about Professor Djalali's physical and mental health and we have always asked to have access to him. In the previous government, Prime Minister Michel, Foreign Minister Reynders and yourself, Mrs De Block, have always contacted your Iranian colleagues to urge them not to allow that execution to continue. I myself also sent a letter to President Rohani at the time to ask him clearly not to allow that execution to continue. More recently, on 19 February and 26 March, Foreign Minister Wilmès spoke to her Iranian homologist and asked for that execution not to continue. The news that came out yesterday from the Iranian press office has not been confirmed at Foreign Affairs. Nor has it been confirmed by Dr Djalali's lawyer, nor has it been confirmed by our Swedish colleagues so far. Nevertheless, we are of course very concerned about the situation of Professor Djalali. From our country we will do three business. Firstly, the Foreign Affairs Office has been in contact with the Iranian Embassy on this matter today and once again called for clarity and stressed our opposition to the execution of the death penalty. Secondly, she contacted the European External Action Service and asked that the European Envoy Mora, who will be visiting Tehran next week, address that dossier in the same way. Thirdly, a few weeks ago, I requested a meeting with the Iranian President, Mr Raisi. The file will be one of the subjects I would like to raise. On the basis of the news, we will put additional emphasis on this. Fourthly, Belgium is a state of law. In a state of law, it is the courts and judges who judge and execute justice on the basis of a file or a complaint. With the independence of our courts and judges, however delicate the dossier may be, we make the difference between a democratic country like ours and an autocracy like others in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u17	I thank you for all the efforts that have already been made and to be made. It's about saving a human life. If we succeed, it will be a victory for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u18	What the government should have done for much longer is to isolate Iran internationally. But no, on the contrary. On the contrary, Belgium closed the Instex trade channel in 2019 together with 5 other European countries. The Flemish Interest was then the only one in the hemisphere who opposed it. We will not have to count on any diplomatic openness or political commitment on the part of Iran. Iran's announcement that Mr Djalali's execution will take place is merely to exert pressure. Perhaps and hopefully the execution will be postponed again because the country, how cynically long, does not want to lose its trump card in the negotiations. We can't go on that blackmail. An innocent man must not be traded with terrorists, but must be released unconditionally. As long as that does not happen, tough economic and diplomatic sanctions must be imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u19	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister Sylvie, Aide-familiale, Soignies, March, 826 kilometres, 42 beneficiaries, additional costs due to the increase in fuel, 210 euros per month. She says: "Now I have to cut into essential expenses. Last Wednesday, I canceled the dentist or I didn't have enough money to fill up and finish my work week." This is one of the many testimonies you received this morning, Deputy Prime Minister, during the action before Parliament. Family workers, nurses, specialized educators, these non-market workers who have essential work, work at home, help the elderly, help people with disabilities, and help them to have a dignified life and live independently. Except that since the increase in the price of fuel, they can no longer! However, they do not know how to do anything other than have a car, not only to get from home to work, but also to carry out missions as part of their work. This is also a condition of the commitment; they must render service to the beneficiaries and accompany them to the doctor or do the shopping. They called the Walloon government. Minister Morreale sent them back to the federal government. On April 1st, your government released $30 million in emergency to help workers with the increase in fuel prices. Mr. Minister, where is this money? When will this money be released? Will you take into account the specificity of these home trades and have you heard their demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u20	Madam President, Madam Member, I thank you for your question, which sheds light on the delicate, particular, impossible and even unbearable situation of thousands of workers in our country. I did indeed have the pleasure and the honour of receiving this morning a delegation of representatives – mostly – of non-market workers, and especially of home help workers who, as you mentioned, are forced today, as was the case yesterday, to take their vehicles to go to the service of the population, to render an essential service to our society individually and collectively. The value of this service has been seen during the health crisis and can still be seen, today, on a day-to-day basis. This is why the Government has decided to release, within the framework of budgetary control, a budget of EUR 30 million and to submit it to the social partners within the Group of Ten so that they can set a series of measures, priorities in support of workers. Unfortunately, the social partners have not yet been able to agree on a series of concrete measures. Of course, if in the coming days and weeks they remain on a failure, it will be up to the government to set the conditions for granting these 30 million. It would be totally incomprehensible and unbearable that they do not benefit workers and especially those working in sectors such as home help, disability support, and people who are losing their autonomy. It's a priority for me. I was lucky this morning to listen to Nathalie, Isabelle, Stephanie and Annie who told us about their difficulties. I have committed myself, with the Prime Minister's representative and with a representative of the Minister of Finance, to consider the proposals they have tabled and to return as soon as possible to them with concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u21	Minister, all this is beautiful! We share the same observation. That's good already. But, in concrete terms, do you think that these women – you are right to say that they are mostly women – have time to wait for this to happen? It's really not possible for them anymore. You say that the social partners have not yet agreed on your €30 million envelope. I understand this because it represents 1.5 euro per worker in this country. So I can already tell you that this will not be enough. I hope you will take into account the specificity of those workers who really need their cars. In a second stage, it will be necessary to start this price freeze debate so that the price of fuel at the pump does not exceed 1.4%. We don't work to live anymore, but to survive. It's no longer possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u22	Madam President, Minister, if the Flemings are asking for something today, it is purchasing power. Half of the Flemings find the rising prices social problem no. 1. I understand them, too. Does the government have to solve everything? No, of course she shouldn't. However, you can do a great deal, not least in terms of labour market policy. You don't do that. I don't understand. After all, the greatest purchasing power leap forward that a person can make is the leap from a benefit to an income from work. All you've done so far is increase benefits. However, the more people work, the stronger our social security is, the more decisive social policy can be. In particular, work offers opportunities, not only in terms of self-development or in terms of more social contacts, but not least in terms of a good income and more purchasing power. That's what people need today. What are you doing? You're not giving home again. Today there are 1.4 million people in this country who do not work, but should be able to do so in one way or another. At the same time, there are 196.000 open vacancies, which are not filled. When they are filled out, for example in my own province of West Flanders, it is mainly because the French come to fill those jobs, while our neighbours from Hainaut still do not. That's very striking, but actually not so strange. In the last two years, you have done nothing but make working in this country less attractive, piece by piece, and over and over again. Now, Minister, you are not doing people any favours. You're not doing society any favours. That is why I have the following question for you. Minister, how long will you and the current government continue to deprive more than one million people in this country of opportunities for decent income and purchasing power?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u23	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, whether you like it or not, the figures are there and they are not lying. Despite the unprecedented crisis we are experiencing, the employment rate in Belgium is at a record level. At the start of the government, the employment rate was 69.9%, now 71.6%, the highest employment rate in more than 20 years. Employment thus increased by 1.7 % with this government. This also translates into a declining number of job seekers. While there were 337,300 jobseekers in October 2020, there were 280,400 in December 2021. That amounts to almost 57,000 less jobseekers. And unemployment is falling in the three regions. There's still a long way to go. That is why we have increased minimum wages in order to make a difference between unemployment benefits and wages, and that is why, at first reading, a series of measures were adopted by the government in the context of the employment deal and the reintegration of sick people into the labour market. The law on various provisions is currently before the social partners for their opinion and will shortly be submitted to Parliament. Finally, I would like to remind you that activation policy has been a regional competence since the sixth state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u24	Minister, do you know who you remind me of? To Comical Ali. There's no problem at all. There are 196.000 vacant vacancies and more and more people in this country have a piece of money left over at the end of their money, but there is no problem for you. You refer to the regions. Indeed, if the level of activity in this country has increased over the past two years, it is thanks to Flanders' efforts to make work more attractive, including with the job bonus. That is a Flemish policy that you are totally opposed to. Despite the policy in Wallonia and despite the figures in Bussel, the level of activity in this country is increasing, but there is no problem for you and you are doing nothing. That is particularly vengeful and antisocial when more and more people are wondering out loud whether they will be able to pay the bills by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u25	Ministers, I imagine you're not surprised to see us today in front of you. What a chilling awakening yesterday morning when we heard the announcement of an agreement on this reform of workers in the arts sector! A great first step has been taken: to recognize what they and they are, what they and they are living, what they and they have legitimately been asking for for a long time - 20 years already! Perhaps you only know too much, this reform is essential to us. Essential because it tells us what we want as a company project. A society that recognizes the real risks of precariousness for arts workers as much as it recognizes their need to make us all live. As much as it is part of the recognition of invisibility work and intermittent pay. A society committed to better, fairer and more supportive social protection. Ministers, I can only invite you to continue what you started yesterday, or rather what you will start tomorrow, if everything is all right... you know what I mean. I can only invite you to continue your commitments of consultation, consultation by going back to the sector, consultation with the National Labour Council and consultation with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. My questions are simple: will you keep this commitment and, above all, what about the future? What are the deadlines and when will you start the second stage - forgive my impatience -, the second step just as essential, since it concerns the working conditions of all these workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u26	Minister, the only way to maintain our culture is to continue to create culture. This is a quote by Johan Huizinga that should continue to inspire us. After all, what is our society without artists, without musicians, theatre makers, writers...? Every day they bring people together by creating beauty and wonder. Our group is therefore pleased that, after 20 years, a new artwork attestation has finally been drawn up to provide this group with a new support scheme. This scheme will promote employment and professionalism in the cultural sector and will give people in the artistic sector, including start-ups, better access to social security. This arrangement is also more in line with their artistic activities. In short, the artwork certificate ensures that art workers can now fully focus on their work, being culture and artistic activities. The new rules did not arise here in an ivory tower in Parliament or in your cabinet. They have also been worked out by the people from the sector themselves who have been able to hold the pen. That's good. We are not supposed to give basic income to everyone in the sector, as this is contrary to this reform. It would also be unfair to workers and self-employed persons from other sectors who cannot count on such a basic income. It will be necessary to demonstrate effectively that there is a professional, artistic practice to obtain such a certificate. The new artwork committee will judge this. I have two questions, Minister. How will you ensure that this artwork certificate effectively offers better guarantees of employment? How will you ensure a balanced decision-making process in awarding that certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u27	Ministers, the reform of the status of artist is on the verge of success. My political formation is particularly pleased with this, since about two years ago, she had indicated her vision of artist status in the 21st century and had even forced this point to appear in the government agreement. The sector has been largely coordinated and I must stress the good cooperation between you two, the Minister of Independents and the Minister of Employment, and with the Minister of Social Affairs to bring about this reform project. There is a favourable wind to me that the status would be simplified, more accessible, expanded to include intermittents and technicians, a more responsible status and a status that rewards work. Do you confirm this favourable wind indicating that this reform will take account of it? My second question is more to the Minister of the Independents. The MR wants these arts workers to be less and less financially dependent and dependent on the ONEM. What measures are you planning to take to promote access to the self-employed to these arts workers? Finally, what is the plan for this reform? In other words, when can it be put in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u28	Ministers, without knowing it, you gave me a nice gift yesterday, with this agreement at the dawn of my 41st birthday. It is therefore with great emotion, satisfaction and joy that since yesterday I have received enthusiastic messages from the artistic sector. They are relieved; they are boosted. Most importantly, they feel heard. On film sets, it was young sound-takers and young actors who applauded when they learned that access to artist status would be facilitated. It is a young pregnant dancer who is relieved, because the impossibility of dancing for several months during her maternity will not penalize her to keep her status as an artist. It can be said that you worked hard, that you didn't give up anything. The same applies to the whole sector. Within the platform Working in the Arts, they debated, argued their positions, sometimes different, found compromises, had to convince the political world, some of which were not acquired. In particular, I would like to highlight the work of the Arts Labour Commission, with an important representation of workers in the sector, the inclusion of invisible work and shadow trades, better social protection, ease, the raising of allowances, the taking into account of maternity and sick leave, support for young artists and intermittents. All these demands, we socialists, have been carrying them for a long time. Here in Parliament, remember the fight of Özlem Özen and Ludivine Dedonder, who managed to have their proposal voted on to facilitate the access to unemployment of artists and technicians, and the maintenance of their rights during the covid crisis. Ministers, today, could you clarify the measures contained in this reform, and give us a precise timing of its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised at your inquiries today. I am delighted to have been able, together with my colleagues David Clarinval and Franck Vandenbroucke, to bring about this reform which has been expected for more than twenty years by the artistic sector, by those who are its mainstay, those who make artistic and cultural creation in our country a reality. We owed them this reform after years of difficulties, exacerbated during the pandemic period, including crisis management measures that were particularly difficult for workers in the cultural sector. I am proud to introduce this reform to you today. Together with my colleagues, David Clarinval and Frank Vandenbroucke, I have launched a broad consultation in the arts sector with a view to putting together concrete proposals for the reform of the statute. These proposals are accessible to everyone, as they were published online. We promised the sector that we would defend these balanced proposals. That's exactly what we did. The agreement within the government is in line with these proposals and retains its DNA. Thus, the future status of arts worker will be made easier to access, as it concerns artists, technicians, and workers performing support functions. This will therefore be an inclusive reform, which will put an end to differences in treatment and even discrimination between the different categories of workers in the arts and culture sector. Arts workers will finally be recognized as full-fledged workers. Many testimonies have been reported to us, whether in the Social Affairs Committee or through the Work in the Arts platform, which showed that many felt harassed by administrative rules that were inadequate for their situation, condition and work. In fact, while working on projects, in creation, research or writing, they often had to justify themselves to the ONEM or regional bodies for their availability in the labour market. From now on, arts workers will be able to focus fully on their cultural activity and their art. Allowances are also adjusted. This was an important aspect, since the crisis provided a raw insight into the daily difficulties experienced by these men and women in the cultural sector who, for many, lived on incomes below the poverty line. I am pleased to be able to announce before you an increase of the minimums to 1 507,74 euros gross per month for isolated and cohabiting people and to 1 652,82 euros for heads of household, when these workers in the sector do not receive income in the course of their activities. Of course, our will is that they will be able to live beyond the poverty line without subsidies. In any case, this safety net, which takes into account the particularities inherent in these trades and functions of the cultural sector, was absolutely necessary. This reform will also allow workers to collect more copyright without being punitive. In addition, the situation of young people graduating in the arts is also taken into account. They will be readily recognized by the committee. Account will also be taken of the situation of older people who currently have the artist's status, as the conditions for renewal will be eased. It is a reform that also empowers actors in the cultural sector, since the Arts Labour Committee will be composed of 50% representatives of the sector alongside representatives of the social security institutions and representatives of the social partners. It is now only this Commission that will issue the certificates of arts workers. The artists will therefore be responsible and involved in this Commission whose purpose is to grant certificates and also to fix a cadastre which takes account of the realities of the sector in relation to the services which are recognised and which are taken into account in obtaining the status. Finally, it is a feminist reform since, with a series of measures, including the rule of wage conversion, it will allow part-time workers who, as in other sectors, are now predominantly women, to have a full status. The alignment of the status of cohabitant with that of isolated will also make it possible to revalue the allowances of many workers, especially women. In addition, maternity leave and adoption leave will now be taken into account as part of this reform. I come, Madam President, to the last element of the answer. It's an important subject. It was essential to be able to take stock of the timing. The intention is indeed, as soon as possible after further consultation of the sector and consultation of the social partners, to be able to bring this reform into force gradually, with the entry into force of the Statute from September this year and a rise in the strength of the other elements of the reform. Indeed, for the other phases, we will also need our colleagues in the Communities who are partly responsible, in particular for working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome birthday to Mrs Léoni and thank you for her present today! My colleagues Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Franck Vandenbroucke and I are indeed very pleased to be able to present this reform of the arts workers tomorrow to the Council of Ministers. As Pierre-Yves Dermagne pointed out, this is an important reform. It has been 20 years since the artistic sector had been waiting for progress on this subject and, as we know, the health crisis has been a complicated period for the actors in the world of culture. The situation is even more difficult today, after this period of crisis. This reform is also a measure which has been taken after a broad consultation with the arts sectors, i.e. - I insist - the subsidized sectors but also the non-subsidised sectors. It is often forgotten, but there is a very important non-subsidized cultural world that must also be able to make its voice heard, a voice that has been able to express itself in this year's consultation. This reform is structured around four axes: firstly, simplification, a single procedure, an electronic platform that avoids multiple lines in administrations, an artists' commission composed on par with representatives of the artistic sector, but also of administrations, trade unions and employers, in other words a balanced commission. Secondly, this reform is very accessible. We wanted to ensure wider access for all arts workers, but also for so-called "invisible" workers, i.e. technicians or intermittent workers, who must also be able to benefit from this status. More generally, therefore, it is now easier to obtain this status. This objective is achieved through a work of art test for starters which is valid for three years, in favour of young artists. This is subject to rules that are more flexible than the normal certificate. This reform is also focused on responsibility because in order to be able to renew this certificate as an artist or art worker, the conditions will be a little stricter. There will be evidence that we are actually working in the sector. It is an important element to which we held a great deal and which rewards the work. Mr Bombled, you have spoken of the independents and we have obviously paid attention to them. We believe that, on a voluntary basis, the status of artist must be able to serve as a springboard for obtaining independent status. In concrete terms, we can combine the status of secondary self-employed with the status of arts workers up to a ceiling of 9,600 euros. We double the amount of copyright, which can be combined with this status as an arts worker. We are expanding the status of firststarter to eight quarters, which will allow artists to benefit from favourable conditions for longer periods of time. This reform is very balanced and was expected by the sector. It will give a boost to those who want to start as self-employed. We hope to conclude in September this year for the part related to unemployment and in June 2023 for the part related to the Commission. There will then be the second chapter to be written with the Communities, in which we hope that the Ministers responsible for Culture will take steps as strong as these. We do our part of the work and we hope that they will do theirs for the benefit of all artists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u31	Ministers, thank you for your answers. I have no doubt that, within the Communities, there will be ministers who are very attentive to the progress that you are proposing today. It has been said that a good first step is undeniable progress for young people, for women through individualisation, thanks to the end of the logic of control, thanks to the very principle of trust in these workers and thanks to the enlargement of the public concerned. There are also two things you mentioned, Minister: the development of the cadastre that will allow a real evaluation in three years' time, an evaluation that will make it possible to re-adjust if there are to be left behind because that is not the spirit of the reform and we will work to ensure that there is no longer anyone who passes between the meshes of the net. As long as we talk about the invisibility of work, I want to thank those who have worked a lot invisiblely within the sector for this reform but also within the cabinets. I think it's important...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u32	Ministers, I think the sector is satisfied that there will be a new arrangement, which will improve the previous one. After all, it is not the case that there has been nothing for 20 years and that things are suddenly changing, Minister. You can admit that, too. There is now indeed a refinement of the existing regime. This is a good thing, both for employees and for the self-employed. Minister Clarinval will also do the necessary. The sector is also very pleased that it has been able to participate in the new scheme. However, I would ask both ministers to continue consultations with the sector, including with the social partners and the sub-governments. You will certainly do so in a second phase, in the further development of this. We look forward to having a debate and voting on this new regulation here in Parliament. In this way we can also contribute to (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u33	Ministers, thank you for your answers, for the work initiated, not to mention your enthusiasm. This reform of the status of artist is necessary and like artists, intermittents and technicians, we look forward to its implementation because it is more grateful and more rewarding. I am also pleased that the work initiated by my political formation has served as a road map for this reform. We therefore look forward to discussing this new status here in the coming weeks. Good success in the status of arts workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u34	Exercising his profession, living without permanent anxiety the next day: every worker, every worker is entitled to it and art, culture must not escape it. Repeating a show, thinking, seeking inspiration, writing, buying your material, all this is part of the artistic process of the trade and work and society needs it. It's not a second-rate activity. It's not an accessory sector. Culture is to make society, it is to live together, it is to nourish struggles. This is essential and this reform affirms it. Thanks not only to you but also to the sector for this mobilization, for this victory. However, I would also like to say that the status is essential and that it is a whole sector that needs to be supported. Here I appeal to your colleagues in the federated entities for massive support at this level too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we learn today, by reading the press, that young girls have been drugged in a nightclub in Liège. The day after the events, having nausea and feeling really bad, they went to the hospital where, curiously, they were told to go to rest. They then went to another medical centre where they were tested and found to have been drugged. As a result, they filed a complaint. As students at the Police Academy, they are probably sensitized. It is also reported that in the province of Luxembourg, seven young girls also developed symptoms the day after an evening in which they had participated. They did not feel well and had no memory of what had happened the day before. In addition, they found that they had a trace of stinging. This is therefore a new phenomenon. These girls are likely to have filed a complaint. Moreover, it would appear that in Brussels it would be difficult to find specific statistics on the filing of complaints by persons who had allegedly been drugged, without having the name of the victim or accused person. Is it correct, Minister, that it is not possible to include in the statistics the filing of complaints by people who have allegedly been drugged? If that is the case, it is challenging. In fact, good statistics are needed to carry out a relevant policy. Do you think that we are witnessing a phenomenon that is growing to a certain extent? Are the centres for the prevention and management of sexual violence appropriate for the analysis and detection of these substances? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u36	Madam President, dear colleague, as you know, the fight against sexual violence is one of the priorities of this government. We are acting in four areas. The first is not a matter for justice because it is a matter of prevention. It is necessary to ensure that operators of horeca establishments no longer close their eyes. More and more initiatives are being taken, notably in Brussels City, Ghent and Malines. There is an Angela project, which encourages harassed people in a bar to ask to talk to Angela. In this way, the victim can subtly report that she needs help. Secondly, if the attack takes place despite everything, it is important that the facts be reported directly, as quickly as possible, in particular because traces of GHB disappear from the body in less than 24 hours. I therefore appeal to all the victims: do not waste a minute and report the facts to the police as soon as possible. This will take you to the sexual abuse centre in your province, where the evidence will be collected directly. Such a centre exists today in Brussels, Liège and Charleroi. It will also be opened in the province of Namur and Luxembourg. Thirdly, all complaints are systematically followed up by the Public Prosecutor's Office, be assured of them. I have made contact with the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, which you know very well. It has a separate pool of specialized magistrates for this purpose. For encoding, it is still traditional encoding, but we are working on it. Fourthly, you know that the new sexual criminal law explicitly provides for heavy sentences for spiking: up to 15 years' imprisonment. This also applies to the needle spicing. It is therefore a question of severe sanctions. I am convinced that all members in this House fully share your concerns. The government is working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, for us Liberals, as – I think – for all members of this House, security is the first freedom. Therefore, all girls and women must be able to enjoy themselves freely, without having to remain constantly on their guard or fear that they will be given a substance in a glass or by means of a sting. Similarly, it is important to raise awareness of this violence among all actors – including in detection, since this drug disappears from the blood after 24 hours. I wonder if the Interdepartmental Conference should not put more emphasis on this aspect. It must be a struggle of every moment and at every level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u38	Madam Minister, EUR 1.2 billion has been channelled from the Belgian ENGIE Electrabel to France. The money does not serve to invest or to do something about our high energy bills, it simply goes to the French parent company and its shareholders. This is happening at a time when our families are faced with towering invoices, il faut le faire. I see that after me many colleagues will also express their indignation about this. However, we should not be naive. That is the energy market in which we find ourselves today and which I have some fundamental reservations about. First of all, today one can sell cheap electricity as the most expensive. It doesn't matter how the power is made; one can sell it as if it came from a gas plant. However, the purpose of the model was to invest profits in new, affordable and renewable production. That's not gonna happen, because the money goes to the shareholders. That's my first objection. My second objection is that, at the same time in this free energy market, Member States such as our country must provide for subsidies to build new production sites. That is, of course, completely the reverse world. Thirdly, at a time when production is there and there is a great deal of profit, we cannot even pay the profits. Apparently, a very bad deal from the previous government, including the N-VA, has led us not to get to the profits of ENGIE. We fought it together. Today, however, we see the consequences. Madam Minister, let it be very clear: at a time when people are facing very high energy bills and energy companies are getting dormant, something must happen. You have already told me that you can do almost nothing about the mistake of the previous government. However, this cannot last, Madam Secretary. So my only question for you today is: what will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u39	Madam Secretary, you said in the newspaper today that no one should enrich themselves during this energy crisis. You said the same thing in April, March, February and January. You have been saying for five months that we should not enrich ourselves. In the meantime, however, the actions to strengthen your words are lacking. You're wandering. In January, you waited for the CREG report. Then you waited for Engie's financial statements. You then passed the ball on to the European Commission. Today, you will transfer the matter to the National Bank. Those who can no longer wait in the meantime, you know that very well, those are all the families who get the final bill and pay themselves blue. In the meantime, Engie Electrabel is not waiting.You know that very well too, because it does just what you don't think should be done, namely getting rich in sleep. Last year, EUR 1.9 billion were transferred and this year, 1.2 billion were transferred to the parent company in France. If one says here, as the previous speaker said, that one cannot intervene, that is a lie. This government knows that, too. In Italy an excess profit tax has recently been introduced. You yourself asked for legal advice on the possibility of introducing an additional special tax on excess profits. Turns out it's possible. The story that one cannot handle that money, that Green, Vooruit and Vivaldi have been telling for months, is simply not true. We do not need more months in which empty promises are made, but we need action, so that these excess profits are effectively dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u40	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 3.4 billion are making a profit at the moment when energy prices are falling apart and Belgians are struggling to pay their energy bill: it sounds very unreal. But if a further 1.2 billion of this is passed on to the French parent company, then that is hallucinating and then the indignation is clearly widely shared. It is true, Mr Verduyckt, that a lot of questions are being asked by various groups here today. Let's take a look at the facts. First, it is by a decision of the previous government that energy giant ENGIE Electrabel pays a ridiculously low amount to the Belgian State compared to the profit. A quick calculation of all taxes and corporate taxes, nuclear contributions and so on teaches us that Electrabel pays less than 10 % taxes on its total profits. Secondly, the previous government fell to its knees in working out the nuclear contribution and gained a mini-tax on a maxi-profit. Thirdly, the previous energy minister demonstrated this arrangement with all possible means, at the request of the company.. understood who can understand. It is clear to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that a fair tax on excess profits must be introduced. Not one with simple slogans, but a robust solution using every euro collected to lighten the Belgians' invoices. That is my question to you, Minister: what steps will you take to get a fair contribution to the mega gains of the energy giant?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u41	Madam Secretary, 1.2 billion is channeling Engie to his French shareholder. That's the result of a shady deal from a previous purple government. Mr Verduyckt can tell you all about this. That sounds very harsh at a time when people can no longer pay for their energy bill and call for more measures to do something about it. Madam Minister, you have said on several occasions that you want to tackle the excess profits of the energy sector. However, this is not going to be very concrete. We certainly don't know exactly what you want to do with those pennies. You've made it very difficult for yourself. You continued to postpone the decision on nuclear power stations under the impulse of green dogma. You continued to linger, so that the government now has to go to Paris and bring out all its charms to convince Engie of the much-needed lifetime extension of the nuclear power plants. At the same time, you're looking for a bat to get those same people to pay more taxes. The question is how serious you really are about these two matters. In other words, what can citizens and businesses expect you to do about the energy bill? Is your approach to the excess profits more than a stick that you want to keep behind the negotiations, where you have deliberately chosen the worst possible cards, to get the nuclear power stations close anyway? Madam Secretary, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u42	Madam Minister, I am looking at the many questions put here today by the majority of my fellow Members and their indignation at the EUR 1.2 billion dividends that have gone to French shareholders. You're all suffering from amnesia. Let me refresh your memory. It started with the Greens who decided on a key step in 2003 and therefore called into question the whole security of supply. The Liberals of Mr Verhofstadt, Mr Dewael and Mr Reynders then thought that it would not take long and sold our nuclear power stations to France, under the supervision of the Socialists, then with Minister Freya Van den Bossche, who had the energy bill exploded at all levels in this country. Those are the socialists who stand up for the working class. You're the culprits, you've gotten usury profits to be generated now. You are supposedly fighting the multinationals, but you have strengthened them. Today you are reducing this Parliament to a theatre association. People don't take this. The saddest thing is that the people who cannot pay their invoices today have to watch those shareholders in France with their fat cigars counting the bills. Madam Secretary, the mistakes continue to accumulate. With the core exit, the actuality and the sale we see where our energy dependence leads. You must even import shale gas, the most polluting gas in the world, because otherwise you will not be there. How will you fix this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u43	Madam Secretary, we are in an unseen energy crisis. Many families and companies look at towering energy bills. Millions of citizens are worried about their purchasing power and feel that it is under pressure. When one hears in the news that Electrabel is embezzling EUR 1.24 billion to the French parent company, that feels particularly harsh. While managers count their profits and dividends, a lot of families have to gather their money every month to make ends meet in order to pay their energy bills. It feels like a blow to the face of anyone who plows to make ends meet. Colleagues, companies can still make profits in crisis situations, but if we are talking about usury profits, we must not let them go unpunished. CD&V also believes that we need to tackle usury gains, to get rid of them, so that we can use these additional financial resources to take additional measures to strengthen the purchasing power of families. Madam Minister, you have already announced that something needs to be done about this. You have announced several measures. A study has already been requested from the National Bank and your colleague advocates the introduction of a crisis tax. Letters have been sent to the CREG. At European level, too, you will call for action. At present, however, there are no concrete actions and there are only announcements. Madam Secretary, what measures will you take in the short term to monitor and tackle these usury gains? What measures can we expect at European level to bring the energy crisis further under control?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, this week, the Belgians learned that in 2021, Electrabel had raised 1.2 billion euros in dividends to ENGIE, its parent company; 1.2 billion euros who leave the country and fly to Paris. It is a figure that hurts, Madam Minister, a figure that hurts all those people who, every day, in their mailbox, discover astronomical energy bills, energy bills of 1 000, 1 500, 2 000 euros for regularisation, supply bills that go from double to triple. I therefore sum up the situation. On the one hand, 1.2 billion euros go to Paris to pay ENGIE shareholders and, on the other hand, invoices that explode and make people's lives more and more difficult. Frankly, it's just inconceivable! When I say that, I'm not in the caricature. I am simply telling you the reality of the majority of the population. We know that you have received studies from the National Bank's regulator on how to recover overprofits. We also know that this issue is being debated within the government. However, for several weeks we have been waiting and seeing nothing coming. What are you waiting for to provide an answer to our fellow citizens? We can no longer accept such injustice, and we must therefore act as soon as possible. What about the studies ordered, minister? What about the discussions within the government? The Prime Minister spoke this week. Is he standing by your side in this fight? Are you considering taking the hand to increase the nuclear rent in this period of crisis? What are the new measures you are considering to support households in this country? Finally, what about the price cap on the European market already mentioned more than a month ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian Electrabel does indeed pay more than EUR 1.2 billion dividends to its French mother ENGIE. Mrs Buyst called that hallucinant. Mrs Dierick said that was a bitter thing to do. Mr. Ben Achour said, "It hurts, it's inconceivable." The sum of those three assessments is still an underestimate of the pain that people do feel when their energy bill falls into the bus every month. The company makes huge profits at a time when a record number of people have trouble paying the invoices. This is unacceptable not only to me or to all of you, but also to the entire government. It's not a Belgian situation. There are overprofits throughout Europe as a result of high prices. Today it has become known that Shell is making an exceptional profit. That's the biggest quarterly profit in its history: $7.1 billion. In Belgium today, a small proportion of the profits of nuclear power stations, 38%, are taxed, the so-called'repartition contribution'. If we apply that percentage to the large profits made because of the high energy prices, they are high amounts. A sum of between EUR 500 and 600 million will be collected in the coming years. The question is whether this is proportionate to the additional profits made by the producers as a result of the high prices. We have asked the CREG and the National Bank to objectify exactly that information. I understand your impatience. I would also like to thank you for your repeated demand for progress. However, I need more time than usual. I will tell you why I need a little more time; you know that as a minister I always give answers. I need more time than usual, because I am bound by previous agreements concluded by previous governments. According to the legal advice of the regulator, among other things, we expose ourselves to damages if we act quickly. We should take one hand and give it back with the other. Does that help our families? Our families, who receive high bills every month, have nothing to do with that. They benefit from robust and robust work. That is why we delivered the figures we received from the CREG to the National Bank. It will provide the government with objective criteria before the end of the month, which must allow us to tax the excess profits that are damaging our economy and our citizens. In this way, the government will also be able to effectively comply with the deadline it has imposed on itself. In fact, on 14 March, we clearly committed ourselves to examining how we can skim those profits through Europe and if we fail to do so through Europe, the government would then draw up its own initiative in June. I can tell you that I am obviously not the only one, because you have all advocated this here - that we will stick to that commitment, that we will go after the profits in the energy sector, over all technologies, and that, if we skim those profits, we will use them in full to reduce our citizens' and businesses' energy bills. No one should be enriched by the biggest energy crisis ever. I'm not the only one here today who says that. You say all this and I will take that support along with the advice I will receive for the parliamentary work that will follow, and for our discussions in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u46	Madam Secretary, I have heard your commitment and we are counting on you. I have indeed listened and heard that a lot of parties have said here that these superprofits must be made. Mr Mertens did not listen to me, because if I take the previous government's deal, I will do so because nuclear interest rates are indeed far too low today. So you don't have to put words in my mouth, Mr Mertens. If I look at all those parties who have been arguing for nuclear energy very passionately over the last few months, well, they have to find with us today that ENGIE is the only one who benefits from this profit. Two nuclear power plants will remain open, so let us do so in a fair way. For Forward, this means that the money goes to the people who cannot pay their invoices and not to French shareholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u47	What I do not want is for us to be back here in June and for nothing to be achieved effectively. Of course I am afraid of that, because I intervened here in September, October, November and December and this government said for four months that the problem of excess profits did not exist. Four months! In January, February, March, April and May over the next five months, you said you were going to do it and you had to gather all the technicalities. Well, there is a legislative proposal that allows us to use a different mechanism, in particular an additional contribution, in such a way that we can effectively tackle these excess profits. If all the parties of the majority here today are in favour of such a mechanism, I hope that it will also be translated into action and that the legislative proposal, for which there is legal advice, will also be adopted effectively, so that we will not be back here in June with any measure whatsoever.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I want to be able to say to my 70-year-old mom, who is worried about her energy bill, and to all those people who are afraid of the final bill that will fall into their mailbox, who will make a profit on the hood of a crisis, and make a profit on the hood of the people, before the Greens can't. So I am very happy to hear a minister here who, despite being made incredibly difficult by past decisions, and despite being tied to hands, will take everything out of the closet to get that honest contribution there. After all, every Belgian has been contributing to the accelerated depreciation of nuclear power plants for years, and now Electrabel also lets the Belgians contribute to the distribution of profits to Paris. It is therefore only fair that we make Electrabel pay a fair contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u49	Madam Minister, you have actually confirmed that you have nothing in your hands so far, that you only have today the intention that you had last week and last month, and that you may have had last year. We are no further away from that. We must take action now. I think it's a little special that some parties here say: it wasn't the deal of the previous government after all. We need to get back to the deal that's been closed on Tihange 1. How much does it pay a year? A million and a half! A million and a half makes that deal. Target 1 and Target 2 almost 20 times as much. So let us remain serious and at last take steps that are correct. Madam Secretary, you did not say anything about the extension of nuclear power stations. You have not said anything about the negotiations, and that is what I am beginning to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u50	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You're not credible. The nuclear power plants were sold to France, that is a fact. The core exit makes us dependent on other sources, such as shale gas. Recent events show every day that we stand with our backs against the wall. Only the Flemish Interest and the people today have the right to be outraged here. We have established what 23 years of liberalism leads to. We have determined what socialism means to the socialists. We've determined what being green means to the greens. If only you had listened to the Flemish interest! We considered the core exit in 2003 to be irresponsible. We found the sale of nuclear power stations to France irresponsible. You should have invested massively in new nuclear power plants in 2003. We'd be sitting on roses by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u51	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We understand, of course, that it is not obvious that agreements that have been made in the past should simply be placed next to you. We understand, on the other hand, that this should be done in a cautious manner. However, exceptional profits also require exceptional measures. We need to get rid of these usury gains, so that we can continue to support the purchasing power of families. We must also be very vigilant. Money being secreted abroad makes it feel a bit harsh. Moreover, we must ensure that sufficient money is still available in Belgium. Invoices are still expected, namely those for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and those for the management of nuclear waste. These invoices must not be passed on to families. We absolutely need to watch over that. I take note of your commitment and hope that concrete measures will be taken rather quickly. I also wish you every success in continuing negotiations with the Prime Minister with Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u52	Minister, I repeat that this situation is absolutely unfair because there is a double penalty. Not only do people pay a lot of money through their energy bills, but in addition, the profits made go away abroad! It's indecent! I had no doubt, Madam Minister, that you shared our indignation, but for our group, we will have to strike hard and go further by acting very quickly. Overprofits must be recovered and returned to households. We need to increase the nuclear rent. Prices must be set on the wholesale market. Maximum profit margins must be imposed. Finally, it is essential to set up a social tariff for the middle class. That is all we have to do at the same time. In exceptional situation, appropriate response!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u53	Minister, this is the umpteenth time since March 31st that we have been asking the government about tenants or landlords who live in condominiums and who are heating up with a gas or oil boiler. They do not receive any energy from the government, which is deeply unfair. Yet there are many: 1.5 million households, many of which are unable to tie the two ends. More than 3 million Belgians are involved. Some members of the government make big announcements on the radio saying that this is a small mistake that will be corrected quickly but they do nothing. Other members of the government spend their days sending out the hot potato from one side to the other. Minister Dermagne refers to Minister Van Peteghem, who refers to you or to Ms.Lalieux, who says it's not her. Today, I wanted to question the Prime Minister who decided not to answer and send you back the bullet. Madam Minister, it is therefore you who are not making any progress. I only have one question. When will those left behind by the government for energy aid finally be taken into account and helped?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u54	My answer is simple. These problems are taken into account and not only by me but by Mr. Van Peteghem, Mr Dermagne and Mrs Lalieux. And we don't turn the ball back! We're doing teamwork! Some people have great problems and I have often reminded them that we have taken steps to reduce energy bills for €3 billion. I would mention, for example, the reduction of VAT, the heating premium and the extended social tariff, which today helps 2 million Belgians. Last week, I answered questions from Mrs Marghem and Mr Dallemagne on the same subject! We are finding solutions to help these households. When it comes to apartment buildings that have a collective gas heating system, we are talking about a contract that is not residential but professional because there is only one access point. The action taken at the time by the government focused on residential contracts. These inhabitants therefore missed the advantage that had been decided. Today we are working on solutions within the government. I have already told you last week that there is additional funding of EUR 56 million from the Gas-Electricity Fund. These additional funds can be used to help these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u55	You examine, you examine, you examine... You examined your case so well when you made your decision at the end of March, with the government that, yes, three million Belgians went through the meshes of the net, three million Belgians! Wait, you're still in control of your case! Did you not realize that three million Belgians were not going to be able to receive energy aid, or did you just pretend to try to avoid paying for it? Madam Minister, frankly, your answer is not serious! It's been six weeks! I heard Mr. Dermine say on the radio that this was a small mistake that would be corrected very quickly, no problem. And weeks pass, and nothing moves! What are you waiting for? That we are in the middle of the summer so that citizens no longer need to heat up in order to benefit from 6% VAT? Is that what you're waiting for? Madam Minister, you have already blurred people at the end of March and today you are still blurring them! You know what? I will come back, whenever necessary, until a concrete solution is found and these people are finally helped!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u56	Madam Minister, EUR 52 billion! It is the astronomical and hallucinating sum that the countries of the European Union pay Russia in fossil fuels, only since the beginning of the war. This is beginning to be known: we are relatively little dependent on Russia in terms of gas: 6%. Last year, however, one third of our oil came from it. We must be able to say this: punishing Russia to help Ukraine is a necessary humanitarian and security act, but it has a price. In the event of an embargo on gas and oil coming from that country, we would have to find other suppliers, in our view, in the very short term. Yesterday, the President of the European Commission confirmed a gradual ban on all Russian oil, starting with deliveries of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year. This brings me to my main question: is the government planning to align itself with the European timetable for stopping Russian oil and gas imports or is it planning a faster embargo? If not, why can't we get ahead of the decision and the rate of stoppage of imports recommended by the Union? Secondly, even if we support the principle of this embargo, we obviously have to anticipate its consequences. And I'm sure you're already working on it. How does the government anticipate possible price implications? Furthermore, are you already looking for suppliers that can replace Russia in the event of the rapid implementation of this embargo or have you already found one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u57	Mr De Smet, it has been 71 days since the war in Ukraine began. For 71 days, Russia has bombed Ukrainian cities and destroyed schools, hospitals and houses. For 71 days, citizens and children have died in Ukraine. The European Union has already taken five sets of sanctions to stop the Russian war machine. Yesterday, the European Commission proposed a sixth set of sanctions. One of these is a gradual embargo on oil by the end of the year. In order to enter into force, the new package must be approved by the 27 Member States of the European Union. In any case, Belgium stands ready. We are currently importing 30% of oil from Russia. This is a considerable part, but we are prepared. Thanks to our ports, we have access to the global market. Thanks to our refineries at the port of Antwerp, we can refine crude oil of various origins. The Belgian market - I am not talking about the Belgian state - is capable of finding alternatives. However, he needs some time to adapt. That is why it is good that the proposed embargo is gradual, step by step. This progressive embargo is above all a way to hit Putin where it hurts while keeping control of our own security of supply and, as far as possible, price volatility. What do we do to control prices? I would remind you that we have a Russian task force which examines, in particular, the consequences for oil, gas and uranium. It is this task force that monitors and continuously monitors the effects on market prices so that we, the government, can anticipate and intervene when necessary. But the most effective solution in the longer term is to switch to renewable energy and increase our energy independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer, which contains some edifying and reassuring elements. Indeed, we cannot continue to send Mr Putin 800 million euros every day that contribute to fuelling his war forces. This sixth package is extremely important. I welcome the courage of the Member States, including Belgium, to do without Russian oil, gas and fuel, knowing that it is sometimes less easy for other countries than for us. I am pleased with European solidarity in this regard. I think the future is not only about oil and gas coming from Russia but, in the long run, about gas. I therefore join you in part: what we need is energy independence. In Europe, it must be built on two pillars, renewable and nuclear. I'm sure this is the path we'll eventually take.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u59	Madam President, Secretary of State Mahdi, ladies and gentlemen, everything is getting more expensive. People don't get their shopping cart filled anymore, the invoices can't be paid at the end of the month and mass migration has been causing huge problems in society for years. The President of the Socialists also rightly acknowledged that he no longer recognizes himself in our own capital. So we're facing huge problems. What is the solution, Mr Secretary of State, according to your friends from the European Commission? They are launching a new plan that says that for the digital and green transformation - let's call it the great reset, because honestly it always takes the longest - we need even more mass migration. Have any of you ever experienced a problem solved by making it bigger? That is precisely what the European Commission wants to do. She says we need more migrant workers. If we know - according to Professor Baert's figures - that 44% of foreigners in this country do not work at working age and are not looking for work, why, at the request of the European Commission, should we obtain new labour in Nigeria, Senegal and Bangladesh? Why not just get them here in Brussels? It is full of workers who can still be employed and activated. That's unbelievable. To make it absolutely absurd, the plan also states that we will give these countries additional development aid because we are bringing migrants from there to here. That is really an absurd situation when our people are having such a hard time getting by. I sincerely wonder, Mr Mahdi, whether you will follow these absurd, totally insane plans of the European Commission to organise even more mass migration, or will you finally use your common sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u60	Madam President, Mr Van Langenhove, you have actually said things I agree with, namely that everything is going to be more expensive, that is effective, and that there are people who can and should be activated. We must make sure that everyone who is here is effectively put to work. You refer to figures of the number of inactive persons in Belgium. We are indeed the worst student of the class compared to our neighbouring countries. This is not because someone else has better migrants or more motivated migrants, but because we need to activate people and have a better integration policy. The Flemish Government is taking steps in this area today. I am thinking, for example, of compulsory registration with the VDAB, one of the choices of this Flemish government and a right choice. So steps are being taken. The Commission has made a proposal. It's not a plan, it's a proposal that needs to be discussed. We must be careful and be sensible about this. We have seen each other recently, and your chairman indicated that even if everyone is activated, there will still be a need for labour migration. We have to deal with this in a sensible way. We need the right selective labour migration, based on the needs of our labour market. We need to work on that. Finally, we must ensure that the labour market and labour migration work properly. However, remember that a sensible labour migration policy is needed to ensure that everything does not become too expensive and that we can do something about purchasing power. The people who came to Belgium 70 years ago to work here in our mines, to build our railways here, have developed the model that you and I can enjoy. Does this mean that we must be blind to the problems of certain forms of migration? Definitely not. However, if you pretend that any form of labour migration is a problem, I am going to hear you talk very often about how expensive everything is, how problematic it is all. And then you'll be guilty of that because of your model.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u61	Mr Mahdi, Secretary of State, if there is one party responsible for the malaise in which we find ourselves today, that will surely be the CD&V, which has been in power since time immemorial and is responsible for the failed story of labour migration over the past few decades. That party is responsible for the social problems and the total 'alienation' in enclaves such as Molenbeek, Borgerhout, Vilvoorde and Machelen, not so far from here. It is the CD&V that is responsible for this. I note that you once again do not contradict the European Commission's plan and that you will soon have to explain to the people that they are no longer able to fill their shopping cart, can no longer pay their energy bill and no longer feel at home in their own villages and neighbourhoods. The fact that you and the current government want to implement the European Commission's plan, to bring even more mass migration here and to pay for that mass migration, is really absurd and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u62	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u63	I have received an amendment to the bill on various urgent health provisions, No. 2320/1. I have received an amendment to the draft law on various urgent health provisions, No. 2320/1. I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that the amendment be sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observations? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteurs, Mrs Hugon and Mr Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u65	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a rapid tendency to adopt legislation that transposes directives in the fight against organised crime and money laundering. It is also a very technical bundle which, for the largest piece, concerns a pure transposition of what has not yet been transposed into Belgian law. However, I would like to make a number of non-technical comments. Since 2020, the Data Protection Authority or GBA has made a general comment on the CAP and the opening up of information on the banking balances. There is a request to destroy that law pending before the Constitutional Court. Pending that ruling, the GBA will continue to refer to the opinion given by that law in 2020. There is a far too far-reaching centralisation of very much financial information from citizens and businesses through that law. In the context of the transposition of this Directive, another public authority will be added which will have unbridled access to all that information, namely the Central Commission for the Confiscation and the Declaration. I look forward with great attention to the ruling of the Constitutional Court on this matter, which remains a very important matter for us. As far as transposition is concerned, a number of additional information channels are being opened here. The COIV will exchange information with foreign homologs. There's Europol now. An indirect channel is also being opened. Parquets can now also exchange information with foreign parquets that they have obtained from their own CFI. Once that information is with the CFI, it can therefore actually be much easier than it is now to circulate, even abroad. I'd like to make a double thought of that. The first has to do with other legislation, from a helicopter point of view. There is a lot of legislation that opens the gateways to the CAP and also to the information available to other public authorities. You are in the process of drafting a bill on data retention in the Justice Commission that will allow judicial authorities to request metadata from Internet providers. My point is that there are no penalties for any other use of the data requested under this legislation. The exchange of data has gone a long way. I asked the committee how it would be possible to prevent the judicial authorities using this information from using it in other files, for example in another criminal file. The draft says that the CFI must be asked to be admitted again and again, but how will that be checked? How is it going to be checked when it comes to a foreign court? In committee, you referred to Article 138 of the Anti-Money Laundering Act in response to my question on this, but that article is not about sanctions when information is used for purposes other than those originally approved or when data is delivered from the CFI to other departments, organisations or authorities without prior consent. Moreover, even if such sanctions were possible, I do not believe that a court would prosecute another court because no authorisation was requested from the CFI for the use of the data for purposes other than those originally approved. My conclusion is that a great deal of information is going to circulate, including abroad, but that the necessary control tools are not provided. This concern explains why we will not approve the draft. We will abstain, although the draft contains a number of good elements, apart from these reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the transposition of a European directive, with a whole range of minor technical adaptations and improvements. It must be clear that the fight against major organised criminal fraud must be high on the agenda, but I would also like to make it clear that we must ensure that we do not make it so difficult for the 98% of companies operating to drop out at some point. We have plenty of examples of that. The administrative burden involved in all these measures is sometimes disproportionate to the search for these major frauds or criminal organisations. I believe that we should also be careful not to use that information wrongly. That is why I ask the Minister and his colleague in Finance to consider whether certain directives should not be re-evaluated at European level, in order to strike a reasonable balance between control measures, the administrative procedures imposed on banks, and the freedom of enterprise. It is necessary to check, but in an acceptable and responsible manner. My group is going to approve this bill, but I wanted to give this message.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u67	Madam President, this draft law deals with the fight against money laundering, terrorism and serious organised crime. In our country, two institutions are working out of the seam, the COIV and the CFI. I have to say that the political knowledge of these institutions is not great and that there is not much talk about them. I was just visiting the COIV this morning, which has been responsible for seizures and confiscations since 2003. Actually, it comes down to follow the money. Mr De Wit knows that very well and uses that phrase as well as every month in the Committee on Justice, and that is right. Go after the resources, the assets of the bad guys. Now, these two organisations have been appointed to help us in the fight against terrorism, money laundering and serious organised crime. They do that well, but they should get a little more publicity. This draft law should allow data to be shared with similar institutions abroad. This form of crime does not stop at borders. There must therefore be a proper exchange of information, and that is the scope of the directive. I'm noticing any sensitivity to privacy. As a liberal, I am, of course, sensitive to this. The question is whether this will be met. The CFI can consult the CAP today. From 2022 onwards, the balances will be included in the CAP, but they will not be exchangeable with abroad. So we didn't choose gold-plating. Access to such data for foreign institutions and vice versa is indeed proportional and explanatory. You ask who controls these institutions and how we can be sure that they do so correctly and do not abuse them. The specific legislation of 18 September 2017 is very clear. It also describes criminal sanctions, including for the abuse of confidential information. Moreover, the CFI and COIV are led by magistrates. Surely one can expect a correct attitude from those magistrates? If these institutions work badly, there are, of course, still bodies such as the Supreme Court of Justice, which can monitor this. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not go over the night ice when the directive was transposed. We adhere strictly to what Europe requires us to do. I therefore deeply regret the fact that an important party such as the N-VA wants to deny some of our two agencies instruments in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Once again, I share the concern about privacy, but this draft responds to this. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, Mr Donné in particular, I hope I have been able to convince you with my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u68	Minister, I appreciate the comprehensive answer. I merely expressed my reservations. The votes of the N-VA group of the opposition in any direction will not stop your text. The opposition has few advantages, but it can give its unsalted opinion and formulate an opinion against the current whenever necessary. That's the point. You are talking about the fight against terrorism. That's why everything has to go away. That's like the fight against tax fraud. Any nuance in the reply is often not permitted. The opposition must then join in thinking politically correctly and approve everything. We don't want to go along with that. Our vote today, which is an abstinence, allows you to continue with your text. We do not want to stop the text either. However, I hope that our voice will also reflect on the fact that sometimes the pendulum goes too far in a particular direction. This is not only the case in the present case. This is also reflected in other cases. That's why I made my comments. They should not therefore be seen as a criticism of our Belgian institutions, being COIV or CFI. Those are well-functioning institutions. However, I am talking about opening gates, including abroad. You can also not check what is happening abroad. You acknowledge that with your announcement that COIV will have access to the banking balances registered in the CAP, but that these data cannot be exchanged internationally. The fact that you do not allow international exchange of such data is precisely because you have much less control. Well, that control is also lacking in the exchange of other information. With this I would like to clarify our position. I hope you will also realise that our concerns are based on a justified critical mind when it comes to transposing European directives based on broad terms such as the fight against money laundering or fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u69	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u70	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2573/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2573/4) The title in French has been amended by the committee to read "Bill transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of certain criminal offences and repealing Council Decision 2000/642/JHA". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill transposing Directive (EU) 2019/1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 laying down rules facilitating the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of certain criminal offences and repealing Council Decision 2000/642/JHA". The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u72	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u73	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1376/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1376/6) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to establish a care path for people with early dementia at a moderate to advanced stage". The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a resolution to provide care for persons with early dementia at a moderate to advanced stage." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u74	Madam President, I will report briefly in view of the busy agenda. The report refers to two resolutions: the motion for a resolution on the request to the federal government to draw up a plan for Alzheimer's disease, dementia and related diseases by Mrs Fonck of Les Engagés, and the proposal for a resolution on the conclusion of an agreement on a programme to burden patients suffering from early dementia at a moderately advanced stage. The meetings took place on 15 June, 21 September and 5 October 2021 and 19 April 2022. At the meeting of 15 June 2021, Ms Fonck asked to add her proposal of resolution to the discussion of Mrs Van Hoof's proposal of resolution. At the meeting of 19 April 2022, the Committee decided to take Mrs Els Van Hoof's motion for a resolution as the basis for the discussion. At the meetings of 15 June and 21 September, it was decided to seek written opinions. I will not go over them, but at least they have contributed to a fruitful discussion in the Committee on Health. I shall not go into more detail about the introductory remarks, either on the general discussion or on the discussion. All this is reflected in the report of the recitals and in the requesting part or amendments. It is clear that some amendments have been tabled, discussed and voted. I would like to conclude this report by saying that the motion for a resolution, including all the amendments, of technical improvements by name vote was finally adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a motion for a resolution on the treatment and support of patients suffering from early dementia is, of course, something that the N-VA Group will support. After all, this is a very serious problem. Patients facing one of the many forms of dementia at a younger age often find themselves in a very difficult family situation, and in a very difficult care situation. This requires an interdisciplinary approach, which requires a lot of expertise. In addition, these patients often still have a family that they have to take care of and where they disappear. Especially when the diagnosis has already been made and those patients come to the crossroads between normal functioning and really getting sick, the panic strikes in the affected families. We must understand this as a society, and we must support them, both financially and in terms of concern. We must ensure that the signals from the care providers are received sufficiently quickly and that the patient is given the necessary care. There are several stages in this disease: the stage at which one still lives at home, the stage at which one goes to a day organization, and finally the stage at which one is absorbed. The N-VA Group has often pointed out that the full organisation of mental health care should receive support. We have also tabled an additional motion for a resolution in which we address the problems of mental health. We are putting forward a number of concrete proposals to better guide patients. We are also talking about patients with dementia, young dementia. We make it very clear that patients with young dementia very often fall out of the boat. Patients with young dementia are not included in patients with disabilities and therefore have a number of substantial disadvantages compared to other patients. We see very clearly that psychological care is inadequate. Certain psychological and psychiatric care is not covered by the scheme for insurance products. The costs for these families are therefore very high, and the burden of care for these families is also very high. A psychiatric withdrawal of more than a year is also not eligible for the maximum invoice. Our group has tabled amendments to this effect which I shall return to later. The resolution also refers a great deal to the Länder, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, however, to remind you once again that it would be much easier for the patient, the organizing authorities and the care providers if the Länder were to be competent for a homogeneous package of health care. That should definitely be the answer. It is remarkable that, according to one party, this is mentioned in the coalition agreement and not in the other party's opinion. Also, 2.5 years after the date, we are not yet able to identify this simplification of the organisation of health care. Why am I referring to the coalition agreement, ladies and gentlemen? Recital D is particularly important in this motion for a resolution. This refers to the coalition agreement in which research into a care pathway for persons with young dementia is included. Now I find it special that people who belong to the majority by means of a resolution should urge their own government to implement the coalition agreement. That can be done, of course, and we are a partner to think about it. Even weirder - I have added the 2020 policy paper - is that the word dementia, young dementia or Alzheimer's is not included at all. I therefore note that young dementia is a very important priority for a smaller partner within the government, but that this partner did not have enough persuasion to get the Minister of Health to work on what is in the government agreement and what is essential for a certain group of patients in their care process. We will support the motion for a resolution, as I have said, but I would like to mention two more amendments which the majority did not approve by the majority and for which I have not been able to find scientific, ethical or other arguments. One of our amendments came after the advice of the Alzheimer's League of Flanders and calls for better organisation of home care for patients with young dementia. I have raised this point in committee on many occasions. Psychiatric home nurses can play a very important role in the framing of patients with young dementia. However, there are only two nomenclatures which are in force for this purpose. I have repeatedly said to Minister Vandenbroucke that an extension of the nomenclatures and the care of psychiatric home nurses could be an essential difference for patients with young dementia. The longer those patients can be received in the home context, the better for society in many cases and the warmer for the family. It is a pity that such a well-founded proposal from the Alzheimer's League of Flanders, which has built up a great deal of expertise, was not approved. A second amendment tabled by my group and not adopted concerns the financial framework. All parties acknowledge that psychiatric recordings of more than one year are not covered by the maximum invoice. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that this is a well-founded debate, but we have held it in committee and you acknowledge the problem, so it is a pity that we do not do anything about it and that it was not taken into account. After all, we are talking about a motion for a resolution and you are perfectly capable of asking whether the costs for patients who are admitted to a psychiatric hospital for a long time can also be covered by the maximum bill. Secondly, insurance products are not included either. Hospitalisation insurance cannot be used in the context of a psychiatric or psychological problem. This means that many patients with very serious problems remain in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words to say that, as we have done in committee, we will support Mrs Van Hoof's text. We have also worked on drafting several amendments with other colleagues to improve the scope of this resolution, in particular on the basis of the opinions we have received. This resolution is important because it enables the management of patients with early dementia to be structured through, inter alia, the establishment of a care path, as provided for in the Government's agreement. Specific attention, in any case, will also have to be paid to the continuity of care between the hospital, the residential and the home so that the whole territory is covered efficiently in terms of the care offered. The involvement of the federated entities in the care of the accompaniment and support of these patients is obviously essential. This has been said and repeated in the committee. It is essential in view of the distribution of competences in this field, and it will therefore require very important cooperation and consultation with them. We know that. I have said so and this has been recalled in the context of the work in particular. Work has already been done or is in the process of being carried out, since the management of early dementia is, in particular, part of the Walloon regional policy declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be much longer and I thank colleagues once again for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u77	Colleagues, this proposal is a first step towards putting the problem of dementia and especially young dementia on the agenda, which is a pleasure to support the Flemish Interest. However, we hope that it will not only end with this resolution and that the government will work on it together with the Länder, of course, and in consultation with all those involved. We also hope that the Flemish Dementie Plan will continue to be rolled out, but that is of course something for the Flemish Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, there is yet another Community problem in this dossier. For this, I refer to the comments of the RIZIV, which give a picture of the situation after the sixth state reform. It appears, for example, that RIZIV pays the cost of the full care of patients who reside in institutions which are now entirely within the competence of the Länder. Only in Belgium, I'd say. The Court's legal service also refers here to the division of powers. It would be best, at least in our view, not only to transfer powers to the Länder, but also to link the necessary budgets to them. After all, Flanders has an updated dementia plan, only the funding for refunds, nomenclature and so on is still largely at federal level. This is not logical for the Flemish interest and certainly not efficient. Mrs Fonck's amendments put her finger on the wound once again. Flanders tackles the problem with a real dementia plan. In Wallonia, the first letter has yet to be put on paper. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a good starting point for putting the problem of young dementia on the agenda, which is more than necessary, but we hope that it will not go beyond this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by dedicating the resolution to a former Head of Service in Parliament, in the Chamber. The person in question was a librarian with whom young dementia was established when he was 59 years old. Unfortunately, he died two years ago at a much too young age. I met Paul in Leuven, at the De Wingerd residential care center. He was one of the sources of inspiration behind this resolution. People who get this diagnosis often have to deal with misunderstandings, misunderstandings and have to give up their jobs far too quickly. However, they also deserve a quality of life. However, it is important to realize that they can still do a lot of things, because through the beautiful VRT programme Restaurant Misunderstand we have established that. In Belgium, about 5,500 people are diagnosed for the age of 65. There are indeed serious difficulties in physical, cognitive, behavioural and psychiatric levels. These lead to memory loss and changes in personality and mood swings. This requires interdisciplinary care, both in home or day care, in hospitals and in residential care centres. In addition, the deterioration process in persons with young dementia is much faster than in people with dementia only at a later age. As a result, care questions are much larger than those of elderly people with dementia. The problem is that there are a great many questions of care that are not answered when reading the numerous opinions we have received. I think someone's world is falling apart at the time the diagnosis is diagnosed. I don't think we're providing enough support for the patients and their families. It is a patchwork that today consists of concessions that must be sought for patients with young dementia and especially for their relatives. Moreover, it is not only complex, but also insufficient. It is also spread across different policy levels. That has already been adequately referred to. Moreover, there is a big difference between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels in terms of supply and initiatives. There is indeed a Flemish dementia plan. At the time, Mr Vandeurzen provided specialised care in several residential care centres and also provided a refund of the invoice. That is a very important signal. However, many initiatives, including in Flanders, need to live on selling wine or pancakes to provide daily support to people with young dementia and their families. So they depend on benefits. This cannot be done in a prosperous country like Belgium. So we have to offer a bit of financial comfort for people who stay at home or in a day care centre or hospital, and not just in a residential care centre. There is also a need to share expertise. That's incredibly necessary. With this resolution, the CD&V aims to provide a strong basis for specialised care and financial support for patients, their families and caregivers and to better organise them. I drew up this resolution at the time, together with De Wingerd, and referred to Parliament's librarian. Woonzorgnet-Dijleland and the Expertise Centre Dementie Vlaanderen have also contributed to this. They are very pleased with this resolution. It is true that reference is made to the coalition agreement, but Parliament must send a double signal and work towards this concrete outcome. We can't put this on the long track. There's a lot in the coalition agreement to investigate. We have made it more concrete here. An interesting discussion was also held in the committee. The amendments were also interesting. There have also been written opinions. When conducting the investigation, we are not allowed to do pre-names, but we must take those elements with us and examine them. Then we need to find out what the best care course could be for people with young dementia. There are indeed references to this in the coalition agreement. The Flemish Dementie Plan also attached importance to what the federal level will do in this respect. It is important that we now instruct the Federal Knowledge Centre, the Public Health Office and the RIZIV to map out the best practices, which do exist, albeit scattered over Flanders, a little Brussels and Wallonia, in order to see how we deal with them best. We don't just do that. After all, I have already adopted many resolutions in Parliament. However, there is a deadline attached to this. This must be done within the year. By June 2023 at the latest, we need to have a look at the best practices, but also at the research on the best care path, which will be conducted. I have seen a lot of amendments, including those from Mrs Fonck but also from Mrs Depoorter. However, this needs to be addressed in the study. They also need to be taken into account, in order to determine whether they are good elements, which we can include in a care process. I can also give you some examples. However, let us wait for the investigation, on which there is a clear timing and deadline. It is also important that it is done in consultation with those who have experience, such as the stakeholders involved, the patients, the relatives and the carers. Of course, it is also important that we ensure that expertise is built up. I refer very specifically to a point which was important for the majority, namely the reference to the reference doctor. We have reference doctors for residential care centers, who share their knowledge. However, this does not happen at other levels. Flanders is now also looking at organising this at the level of the general practitioners and of home care. The federal level also has a responsibility to organise this at the level of hospitals and to ensure that young dementia, few doctors know about, are shared in certain regions and that an outreach is made to the health care institutions as well as that it connects with patients, their relatives and first-line care. This division of expertise is of particular importance. We want, of course, to involve all the target groups. The resolution also mentions the moderate to advanced stage. We mean that from home to the day care centre, the home-care centre and the hospital the patient must be grabbed together with his or her caregiver. That's also important. Reference has been made to the Länder, where there are a lot of powers. We wanted to give a number of signals which clearly show that the way we deal with it today is not really the right one. We actually only have the problem of residential care centers to solve. I think that when one is young, it is not pleasant to live in a form where most people are 40 years older and one has to operate permanently between them. It is important that we make people feel at home, in adapted living and care forms. We must also look at financial and psychological support in relation to the Länder, in addition to the accessibility and transparency of information and the automatic allocation of benefits. The development of a specific care pathway and the consultation with the Länder are aspects that are crucial in order to achieve the ultimate objective of "more specialised care' and to alleviate financial pressure on patients and the family. Young dementia indeed affects thousands of people in Belgium and it is very difficult, both psychologically and financially. At some point I took Paul back to Parliament, to pay a visit again, including to his office. Although he couldn't express himself, I saw very clearly that it made him happy. That is what we need to do: to add quality of life to the daily lives of these patients. Let us still see people with young dementies as longing beings, who also enjoy that quality of life. That is what we are trying to do with this proposal. Additional resources are needed. Expertise and cooperation between the various authorities and the healthcare institutions are therefore urgently needed to meet all care questions of young people. I thank everyone for their good cooperation, including in committee, and I hope for your support in the vote later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u79	Madam President, it is a good thing that attention is paid to the issue of youth. Those affected by young dementia are severely affected: the patient suffers from severe amnesia and sometimes from psychiatric disorders and is therefore unable to work at an early age; he or she becomes highly dependent, needs psychiatric care and sometimes needs to be admitted to a rest home. All this is accompanied by an important loss of income. It is not a joke when the young demented, who often worked for the diagnosis, falls back to 60% of the wage, while the house still has to be paid off or children are at university. Moreover, the disease is still irreversible and young people will not be able to return to work. So much for the shared determinations. Everyone agrees that an approach needs to be taken and that attention should be paid to the dossier. We shall therefore support the motion for a resolution. However, let me take a look at the progress of the work. Originally, in your proposal, which was very concrete, you asked for a convention similar to the convention for patients with Huntington's disease, also a neurological condition, which means that the government takes a greater share of the costs. Following the advice of the RIZIV that since the sixth state reform the Länder have been competent to solve most of the problems of people who develop high dependence and lose autonomy, think of staying in a residential care centre, the proposal was undermined to such an extent that a vague text remains, in which three of the six questions are ultimately addressed, inter alia, to the Flemish Government, in this case CD&V Minister Beke. It is a good thing that a motion for a resolution is being adopted here in Parliament, but the PVDA is ready to address the problem of young people in the Flemish Parliament too, and we hope that you will do the same. A first important problem is the price of residential care centres. Who can pay more than 2,000 euros a month to such a centre, while the partner who is often in good health still lives at home and studies children at the university. What is Minister Beke doing against the high prices of residential care centres? At least he's not doing much for the time being. The second problem is the long waiting lists, as many as 20,000 Flemings - for the Flemish personal budget for which people with loss of autonomy or people with disabilities, which may also be the case with people with young dementia, are entitled. People with young dementies can't be expected to end up at the bottom of that waiting list. The PVDA is against the personalised budget allocated to those concerned to spend on care of their choice. That is not a solution for us, because it brings with it a great deal of problems on the ground. In our view, the government must guarantee quality and accessible care in a collective way. We therefore believe that more concrete measures should be taken. We await what will be done in the Flemish Parliament and by the Flemish Government to help young dementing people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u80	Madam President, Vooruit will support this motion for a resolution, as in the committee, for the following reasons. I will pick up on what my colleagues have said here and there. Firstly, the proposal meets a clear commitment in the federal government agreement. It states that "a specific care path will be examined for people with early dementia." Mrs Depoorter, I have not read the policy paper anymore, as you have done, but I do know that this is a matter of care paths and that they are being taken to heart. I assume that, among other things, young dementia can find a place in it. Secondly, the proposal for a resolution is based on a pragmatic approach. Unlike Mrs Merckx, I think the text is very concrete. Attention will be paid to the different stages in young dementia, provisions introduced after amendment. In addition, the government is asked to give concrete shape to the process of care through good practices. I am convinced that these good practices exist and that we need to learn to look over that wall. Mrs Depoorter, I thought I heard you say that you dream of a Flemish health care. We are still convinced of a federal health care system, in which the various entities work very well together. I am convinced that an exchange of good practice, which undoubtedly exists at the level of the Länder and the federal level, can deliver concrete results and improve. Thirdly, the proposal for a resolution places the responsibility where it should be today and, at the same time, quite rightly focuses on cooperation. Cooperation is more necessary than ever in this complex care landscape. I think we can agree on that. As we have heard and read, it is important that those who are confronted with the disease at an early age and who are in a precarious situation know what their status is, what the benefits are and what financial support they are entitled to. This is still unclear today, and that needs to be remedied. Such concrete measures are reflected in the motion for a resolution. For example, it calls for the maximum automatic allocation of rights, which is absolutely welcome for all patients with young dementia. Somewhere else there is a call for adapted health standards. Indeed, those patients cannot be expected to end up in a residential care centre from the beginning to the end. In short, as far as we are concerned, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is, with respect for everyone's responsibility, a step forward for the estimated 5,500 young-demented victims, who face daily physical, physical, mental, cognitive problems and who must therefore seek their way into the complex care landscape. Mrs. Depoorter wonders about our plea. I can only regret that if we point out to our federal ministers their responsibility or make it clear that certain commitments need to be made, we will be put in a corner, just like if we did not. I believe it is our duty, as Members of Parliament, even though we are part of the majority, to return to certain commitments made and to insist that they be implemented. Hopefully, after the unanimous vote in committee and perhaps in plenary, the resolution will be put to work and not just federally. I hope that all parties will also raise the issue with the Länder, because ultimately it is a shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u81	Mr President, of course it is your job as a Member of Parliament to work with your ministers on the implementation of the coalition agreement. What is so special, however, is that confidence is so low that a date was included in the text, because before 2023 your Minister must have started an investigation into the path of care. If the policy paper does not mention young dementia and the colleague of CD&V insists on a study of the route in the first quarter of 2023, then I can only conclude that confidence in its operation is not optimal. You also referred to the 2022 policy paper. This is indeed about care pathways and I will read to you about them: diabetes, obesity, perinatal care pathway and pre- and post-abdominal organ transplantation. So that's not a young dementia, colleague. One doesn't need to be a doctor to interpret that. So it wasn't in there. That is why I understand that the colleague from CD&V, who takes this path to heart, would like to remind the government of it. Thirdly, you have made it very clear that you are the Front Group for federal health care. However, how do you interpret the coalition agreement? I have heard different interpretations from each party. We have read that there is going to be a uniform transfer of powers. I have already heard colleagues from the MR speak against this. You are now speaking out against it yourself. What will you do with it? You have two years left.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be noted that Belgium is seriously lagging behind in the management of patients with Alzheimer's disease. There are patients with Alzheimer's disease and dementia more comprehensively and all related diseases early but there are also all those you do not quote and who, however, are experiencing particularly difficult times with care not necessarily adapted and especially with relatives who are at their side for extremely long periods of time. If we are seriously lagging behind in Belgium, it is both in terms of care, the provision of adapted care at home or in institutions, the training of carers, the lack of support for close caregivers, the provision of sufficient diagnostic, early diagnosis and diagnostic advertising capabilities and all aspects of preventive and therapeutic research. This is all the more crucial since the projections unfortunately estimate that the number of people suffering in Belgium from Alzheimer's disease, dementia or related diseases will be around 260,000 in 2030 and, in 2050, about 390,000. That is why I had tabled a proposal and I continue to advocate for an Alzheimer's, dementia and related disease plan. Of course, there are responsibilities at different levels of power. However, it is clear, in the field of public health, that, if there is not at a given time of steering with a given course and a clear obligation for the different levels of power to work together on an approach not only ambitious but also perfectly coordinated, all these people and their loved ones will again and again, tomorrow and the day after, be in extremely difficult and difficult situations to live without care and without a suitable approach. It is enough to compare what is being done in this area with what is happening in other countries of the European Union. You did not want to have a broader vision and you preferred to focus on patients with early dementia. Through my motion for a resolution, I, for my part, continue to have a broader vision. That is why, Madam President, I agree with Mrs Van Hoof's motion for a resolution. I come to the content of the resolution under consideration, which deals specifically with people with early dementia. This approach is absolutely essential for these patients. A national care agreement for them is a positive element. I do, however, put two flats in it. First of all, these should not be just vague intentions. So I'm waiting to see what the government's next move will be. Secondly, it is absolutely essential that we also provide for a route of care for those you leave behind in the context of this motion for a resolution. I am thinking here of people who are suffering from early dementia, but who will not be affected by this route of care, given the very restrictive target groups envisaged within the framework of the latter. If the motion for a resolution before us responds correctly to the situation, with the structures that have been put in place on the Dutch-speaking side – which is why I will vote for it – I regret that, in view of the hyper-restrictive target groups, very many patients who live in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region, but also in the territory of Wallonia, will not be able to benefit from a route of care as provided for in the motion for a resolution. I can assure you that, for my part, I will do everything to ensure that the minister changes the categories that you have set out in this resolution, otherwise the francophones will be clearly left out. I regret the words of Minister Morreale, who was questioned on 10 February 2022 about the content of this text. Does that make you laugh at the Socialist Party? I encourage you to contact the patient associations, which have alerted me and which highlight this problem – rightly. On February 10, 2022, then, Minister Morreale, in the Walloon Parliament, made it clear that there would be no additional deployment on the Walloon side, that there would be no financial impact, signing there his total lack of willingness to provide adequate support for people suffering from early dementia. It's extremely challenging. I will continue, together with the patient associations, to try to move the lines so that this journey of care, if set up, can also benefit people living in the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region and Wallonia. It is also for this reason that, in connection with the patient associations concerned, I have tabled the amendments which are again submitted to you here in plenary. Madam President, as far as I am concerned, I will continue to advocate for a much more ambitious approach, for the care of all patients and for the support of their loved ones, regardless of the age at which dementia is diagnosed and regardless of the age of the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u84	• 20 years old Catherine Fonck (1376/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u85	• 22 – Catherine Fonck (1376/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u86	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Steven Matheï, Nathalie Muylle, Jef Van den Bergh, Servais Verherstraeten, Jan Briers, Nahima Lanjri, Anja Vanrobaeys, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u88	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2365/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2365/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Ms Cécile Cornet, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already demonstrated that the fate of border workers is close to our hearts in the discussion of the draft various provisions on Finance of December 2021. We will also support this proposal. A policy promoting teleworking for border workers is important. It has advantages for both employees and employers. It reduces the number of travel movements, improves the balance between work and private life, increases the attractiveness of job vacancies and so on. In committee, we have already said that we consider the size of the resolution to be too limited. I refer to the Benelux proposal, which applies not only to domestic frontier workers but also to the possibility of working in remote offices. In addition, the Benelux proposal also concerns self-employed entrepreneurs, professionals, managers and seconded officials. They must not be forgotten in a policy of teleworking. The resolution focuses on a structural solution for home-working border workers, inspired by the scheme already in force in Luxembourg and France. As a solution, it is proposed to bring the number of days of work outside the state of work to 48 for frontier workers, which amounts to about one day per week. We call on the study to be carried out to ensure that the outcome provides for a sufficiently flexible regime to take account of the various cases of homework, work via remote offices, an employee who visits customers one day a week in addition to teleworking in his home country, a worker who works in more than one country, a part-time worker, situations of temporary unemployment, transitional rights for workers who are now consciously opting for a tax split scheme, etc. The resolution is drawing up a study of the economic and budgetary impact on the tax and social security systems. It is equally important to us that the impact of teleworking on applicable labour law is also taken into account. First, an answer must be given to the question of which labour law applies. Labour law evolves in our neighbouring countries into a right to telework for two days a week. In this context, the question arises as to whether an employer may impose on frontier workers a different or more limited homework scheme than workers residing in the country of the employer. The Benelux Treaty explicitly provides for equal treatment of Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg nationals in terms of working conditions. Finally, it does not seem superfluous to take account of the consequences for the employer. What are the consequences if a frontier worker works more or less telework one day? Is there, in his view, a permanent staff establishment or a Belgian establishment created by telework? Should he or should he or should he not conduct a double payroll administration and withhold corporate tax? Does the employee's social insurance change? And what are the consequences of building up a supplementary pension? In conclusion, we fully support the call for cross-border workers to be able to work longer days than workers. What is particularly important is to provide for a sufficiently flexible regime, so that changing labour law and working conditions do not in turn change the tax and social security status of workers and employers. We hope that those who will do the study work that this resolution calls for will also read this report and take into account the points I have just raised. This also explains why I have given a rather boring, technical explanation here: it is less intended for the stage, but rather for the report and the people who will read the report. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u90	Madam President, first of all, I would like to welcome the fact that this proposal has been put on the agenda and I congratulate my colleagues on their work in this area. The health crisis has made compulsory what was previously unthinkable: the increase in the number of days of telework for frontier workers, through the establishment of temporary agreements between border countries. The principle was that I perform my telework function and remain taxed in my employer's country. If, of course, there are limits to telework, it is not a question of generalizing it to 100% for border workers. However, teleworking has many major advantages for cross-border regions. These include the reduction of traffic congestion - I am thinking of those who pass through the E411 every morning to go to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg - but also of a better reconciliation between private and professional life or a gesture for the climate, a gesture for the planet. It is not easy to provide a suitable framework for the teleworking of border workers, as we know. It is worth noting, for example, the work initiated by the Benelux Parliament, which adopted a resolution calling on the various governments to develop a solution to improve the situation of frontier workers at home, or the initiative that has been set up, the Fund for Belgian Border Municipalities, so essential to our municipalities in the south of the province of Luxembourg, which enables us to carry out policies adapted to our citizens in cross-border rural areas. The 48-day proposal as a number of days of teleworking is a gesture, a step that this Belgian Parliament is taking in this long debate on cross-border teleworking. That's a number. We will see if this government keeps it in the negotiations, but it is, in any case, a further step in the right direction. Beyond the figure, it is a structural solution which is necessary in the field of cross-border teleworking and this is what is proposed and requested in this text. Every worker, whether cross-border or local, must be treated equally. This government will therefore have to pay attention to the pitfalls that possible abuses could entail. Labour law, social security and fair taxation remain our priorities. However, today it is an important debate for the thousands of workers concerned that is opened at the initiative of this Parliament. Bravo for the work done! We now give our confidence to our Minister of Finance to negotiate in line with this parliamentary text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u91	Madam President, I myself live at about ten minutes from the French-Flemish border in the south of West Flanders, and I have followed with particular interest the motion for a resolution before us, also because nowhere else in the country is the labour market shortage as acute as in the province of West Flanders, especially in the south of it. Cross-border work is therefore absolutely important there. The Members who tabled the motion for a resolution have quite rightly pointed out the need to facilitate homework for frontier workers, without creating problems for them, for example in the area of double taxation, both in the country of employment and in the country of origin. There may also be problems in the areas of social insurance or social security. We therefore understand that colleagues fear the negative effects on the country's income from all this telework, including cross-border work, but at the same time they also see the positive importance of a dynamic labour market, which benefits the general economy. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I told you I live in West Flanders ten minutes' drive from the French-Flemish border, but I also live five minutes from an important monument. If you cross the E17 from Lille towards Kortrijk, you will see on the right a gigantic concrete monument with four points that represent the directions of the wind. One of these points points points to France. That monument is called De Sjouwer and was founded as a thank you for the many French Flemings, the northern French who cross the border daily and who, unlike the labour migration of Secretary of State Mahdi, also return daily to their country of origin, as it should be. It was also mentioned by Mr Anseeeuw during the oral questions just now, because the situation in Belgium is very unique. Even internationally, the province of West Flanders is interested, because it has the lowest unemployment rate in the country. The Belgian province with the highest unemployment is Hainaut. The provinces with the least and most unemployment are bordering on each other. It could be argued that Hainauts do not work in West Flanders because of the language barrier. However, there is nothing less true, because the statistics show that there is twice as much commuting between Nord-Pas-de-Calais in northern France and the province of West Flanders, than commuting between Hainaut and West Flanders. The language barrier is identical for Northern French and Walloons. However, the difference can be explained by the unbridled hammock of unemployment, in which many walls remain. Unemployment is passed on from generation to generation in some Walloon families. We must dare to name that problem. It completely exposes the labour challenge of this country. In addition to the activation of large groups of unemployed immigrants in this country, we must also make the activation of large groups of unemployed people in Wallonia an absolute priority. Our West Flemish companies and entrepreneurs have to resort to the labour reserve of Northern France instead of that of Hainaut. That is why we support initiatives relating to frontier work. That's important. However, it is much more important that we finally resolve the problem between Hainaut and West Flanders. I repeat, the language barrier is identical for northern France. Apparently, we are not able to attract Hainaut for the West Flemish companies that still need labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u92	Madam Chair, I'm sorry, but with what I just heard, we can pervert all the files. For my part, I am going to tell you more about the Belgian borderers, who are well-trained in Wallonia and who are going to work in the Grand Duchy, because they bring the science and training that are excellent in Wallonia. This file has been moving for a long time because it has an old claim. I therefore thank my colleague Mathéi for taking the initiative on this motion for a resolution, which I have co-signed. Of course, a number is a number. Some dynamism may be hampered. We realize that, for a wide range of Belgian company managers who work abroad, the excess of 24 days is due to their travel around the world because of their function. Then, the Belgian tax collects them on the ground that they have exceeded the number of days and it taxes them. It's obviously very unpleasant and it's anti-economic. Moreover, the governments of neighbouring countries are tired of responding to requests for intelligence from the Belgian tax authorities and of having problems with the workers who are caught up by them. This is an old claim about which an agreement in principle had been reached under the previous legislature between Ministers Gramegna and Van Overtveldt, between Prime Ministers Charles Michel and Xavier Bettel, around a figure of 48 days. The tax authorities had been responsible for preparing amendments to the preventive double taxation convention - this concerned the Luxembourg component. Finally, the case did not move forward, because of resistance from the administration, which believes that this amounts to a loss of sovereignty, which prevents the return of tax revenues. This is not exactly the case, of course. Indeed, the fact that a frontier worker works for a few more days in the State does not change his situation in any way. As a result, there are no more or less taxes; they are simply offered a little more flexibility. So why 48 days? Firstly, because a resolution by the Benelux Parliament - unanimously voted - calls for this number of days. Then we try to target one day a week. This allows a little more comfort in managing your privacy, in travelling, with consequences for the production of CO2 in traffic jams. That is why Luxembourg's environmental minister is so attracted to this extension, which would reduce traffic in the Grand-Ducal capital. But the problem is the same, as colleagues have mentioned, with France, Germany and the Netherlands, hence the resolution that was taken. Everyone agrees on this extension. Now there is the tax problem and the social security problem. It is known that there is a European limitation on 25 % of non-state benefits. This must therefore be harmonized. The recommendation which was initiated by my colleague Mathei calls for work to be done on these two aspects and for an evaluation to be carried out. It is said that, in concluding this type of agreement, Belgium's fiscal sovereignty is achieved, it must be demonstrated that this is not the case. It is a factor of dynamism. It is a factor of economic development. It is therefore important that we work on it. We'll relay the message to the Minister of Finance, even if he's heard it before. He had managed, notably with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, to increase from 24 to 34 days. An additional effort is required and the system is called for to be harmonized at the international level. Belgian workers must be able to move around in the OECD with this possibility of teleworking as well. This is a motion for a resolution, but we will follow the minister's interest in the resolution and we will try to weigh our weight to move towards the realization of this proposal. I saw that there was a bill to increase the number of days. It's a work that takes place step by step: we did 24, then 34. When we're at 48, maybe we'll ask a little more, but for now, we're aiming for a day a week. That is why the MR Group will enthusiastically support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is a small, open economy in the centre of Europe, with a well-functioning cross-border labour market. This results in many border workers, a total of 90,000 in Belgium. The previous speakers mentioned a number of regions. In Limburg there are 15,000 people who work every day in the Netherlands, for example. That in itself is good and very important. This contributes to economic growth and is also very positive for the level of effectiveness. Of course, this has not become the case from today to tomorrow, it has grown historically, as has the rules governing all of this. If we want to be active in an international context, agreements must be made. For frontier workers there must be concrete tax arrangements in the double taxation conventions and also social security agreements. This is a European arrangement. Then there was corona. Corona, of course, also brought homework. In the meantime, we can say that this will be a real keeper. In the corona period, homework was mandatory or highly recommended at certain times. Of course, that had an effect. So those border workers also went to work at home. Then a problem arose, because the historically grown rules around double taxation treaties and around the RSZ were not designed to work at home. In concrete terms, this meant that if a frontier worker worked one day at home, he or she would be taxed for that day in Belgium and not in the other country. Of course, falling into two tax systems involves a great deal of red tape. The same applies to social security. There was also a limit there. Moreover, for some of those border workers, this resulted in the potential loss of certain benefits. So there were a lot of disadvantages associated with homework. Fortunately, Belgium and our neighbouring countries have provided a temporary solution during the corona period. There have been systematic agreements with our neighbouring countries to ensure that homework, which was mandatory or highly recommended, was settled. In concrete terms, this meant that the days worked at home were actually seen as days that would have worked at the workshop. Therefore, there were no adverse tax consequences and no adverse effects on the RSZ. Those temporary agreements are of course coming to an end. Specifically, they will stop on 30 June of this year. The call is therefore strong to strive for and work towards a definitive solution for homework. That is the reason for this resolution. Even in the future, frontier workers will have to be able to work at home without red tape, tax disadvantages or other problems. A solution is not easy with the current rules, but it is important that this step is taken. That is why the resolution makes a number of very specific points. In the long term, we should evolve towards a new, international definition of homework. This must be achieved at OECD and European level and will take some time. In addition, arrangements can be made in the shorter term, with the current rules, to enable frontier workers to work at home at least one day a week. This is also reflected in a recommendation from the Benelux Parliament, as has already been mentioned. Mr Piedboeuf has also fought for this. In concrete terms, this resolution calls for long-term work and, in the shorter term, for at least one day of homework per week for frontier workers. In addition, this resolution calls for an impact study to assess the economic, financial and budgetary consequences of such a home-work scheme. This resolution is therefore a first but very important step in an evolution, so that border workers are not punished as well as they, like other workers, work at home. Homework has a positive impact on both the employee, who can create a better balance between family and work, and on the employer. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this resolution in committee and in this House, including the advisory organisations. I hope that we will be able to count on your support for this resolution to be adopted on a massive scale when it comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this resolution has so much support here today. For me, border workers, like Belgian workers, need to be able to continue to work telework without being punished in terms of their taxes. After all, the double tax treaties concluded still contain rules from the time when almost every employee still went to the office every day. Meanwhile, the world has changed. We had corona, and then everyone was forced to work at home. We have therefore noticed that many more functions than we ever thought would be eligible for telework. At that time, all the rules already in place were neutralized in order not to have any negative tax or social security consequences. However, these neutralizations expire at the end of June. Time is running out for the border workers. Many of them are thrilled to see what will happen. Meanwhile, even though Corona is over, more than half of the employees here in Belgium indicate that they want to continue to telework, perhaps not full-time, but still a few days a week. This wish is no different for border workers. The benefits are widely known: better reconciliation of work and family life, avoiding congestion or gaining time by not taking public transport. These advantages are again no different for border workers. However, if nothing happens by the end of June, the border workers who continue to work telework will have to pay taxes twice or lose some of the benefits of their mortgage deduction. I do not think that young families who are developing their family life here in Belgium should be affected. That is why teleworking at border workers has been a focus for me for longer than today. More than a year ago, I myself drew up a resolution to improve the framework for structural teleworking, in which I also tabled amendments to deal with this situation properly. I thank Mr Matheï for his initiative. We have asked the Minister several times about this in the Finance Committee because we were concerned about the border workers who continued to telework. That is why I immediately joined Mr Matheï's initiative so that we can clarify this situation and, above all, offer a solution to all those people who now do not know what will happen after June. In addition to advantages, however, there are also disadvantages associated with teleworking. There is less social contact with colleagues, but the workload is also increasing. During the corona crisis, a lot of employees said that they kept answering e-mails and kept working and that the border between work and family faded. I think it is important that, in addition to the system for teleworking cross-border workers, there should also be a good collective framework for structural teleworking, so that workers should not continue to pay the bills they have been paying for more than two years, and that there should also be attention to working conditions at home. This is a little in line with the resolution I tabled in the Committee on Social Affairs, in which I asked for the right to deconnection. This is now being included in the employment deal by the government, but I still insist on a well-framed labour law and on a good telework fee for the people working at home. In that sense, I agree with the question that has already been asked here. The resolution calls for an impact study to be carried out on the fiscal, economic and budgetary implications, but I think it is important that it also includes the right to home and a good agency and that attention should be paid to the well-being of teleworkers and their higher invoices. This is no different for frontier workers than for Belgian workers. In the area of social security, it is also important to harmonise. Under its Presidency, France has placed the revision and updating of the Regulation on the European agenda. I hope that there will be rapid progress there, because if cross-border workers work telework they will not lose their guaranteed wages, social protection and pension rights. Ladies and gentlemen, at least I will monitor very closely the government's implementation of the resolution, because border workers expect a solution and are anxiously waiting for it. In any case, I hope that a first step can be taken by the end of June. For our group, this resolution is therefore a first step forward, which is 48 days, closely in line with what has been decided unanimously by the Benelux apartment. Cross-border workers who are very mobile and flexible should be able to enter the 21st century digital age, just like Belgian workers, but with the necessary guarantees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u95	Madam President, I am very pleased to have this debate in plenary today. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the committee meeting, since I had an intervention in another committee at the same time. Fortunately, I would say that this is just a motion for a resolution. I am the mayor of a commune in which 60% of the working population works in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In most municipalities, it is more than 40% or 50%. This means that virtually every home is affected by this problem. I therefore call this dossier important. But let me briefly review the history of this case because we must not forget the history. On 16 March 2015, Johan Van Overtveldt, then Minister of Finance, announced that border residents living in Belgium and working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg will now be able to work outside Luxembourg 24 days a year while remaining taxed in Luxembourg. This friendly agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2015. In order for it to be approved by Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we had to wait 2,044 days. This agreement was in force when it was not even approved by the government. I was told by the administration. In my first remarks following my return to the federal Parliament, I was more than surprised that the 24 days were not approved by Parliament and had never been presented to Parliament. So we had this approval a few months ago and at that time I was able to have a debate with Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmès. On 5 December 2017, this agreement was the subject of an amendment to the Belgian-Luxembourg tax convention aimed at avoiding double taxation. It is signed by the Belgian and Luxembourg governments but is still not submitted to Parliament, as I have already said. May 18, 2019 is a very important date for me in this evolution. On May 18, 2019, two prime ministers – not one! – Charles Michel, Belgian Prime Minister, and Xavier Bettel, Grand-Ducal Prime Minister, communicate together saying that a new amicable agreement has just been established between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Cross-border workers will now have the right to work 48 days a year outside the employer country while remaining taxed. I did not count the number of e-mails I received from all trades that legitimately requested further information on the dates of entry into force. But I did not have this information, simply because the announcement was made only by two ministers who had addressed the press. In order for them to speak before Parliament, it will probably take another 2,044 days! However, this large-scale announcement has come up against an important reality: how can we get 48 days approved when the 24 days previously announced have not yet been approved by Parliament? The motion for a resolution before the House today seeks to ask the government to consider the possibility. Where are we? It is a question of studying the possibility, Mr Mathei! I was certain, however, that you were going to ask for immediate implementation. What a step backwards from what had been concluded with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg! How is it possible to get to such a situation? As members of this Parliament, we are devaluing ourselves. This is unacceptable! Of course, I am looking at the colleagues who live on the other borders of this country who – it is true – are not involved in this agreement, but who could rely on it to claim the same solution. I would like to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, but in doing so, I would agree to consider the possibility when we have already reached an agreement. The text before us today is therefore not a step forward, but a real step backwards. It is, in any case, the feeling of the frontier workers who let me know on a daily basis. You can react with your head, Mr. Piedboeuf, that is the reality of the terrain! But it is true that on May 18, 2019, we were in the midst of an election campaign! It was therefore necessary to overbid to win the elections. In 2019, Mr. Piedboeuf, two prime ministers considered it possible because they had announced it. If they thought it was possible, it was because they had the necessary studies. Who would dare to pretend otherwise? To the contrary would mean that these ministers were not really competent, let us be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u96	I didn't want to interfere or upset my friend, Josy Arens. But he didn't listen to what I said. We had meetings in the office of the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, his collaborator, Pierre Gramegna, his collaborator, myself and my collaborator, Thierry Joie, and we had agreed to raise the figure from 24 to 48 in relation to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The tax authorities on both sides of the border were charged with preparing the amendment of the preventive double taxation convention to increase the number from 24 to 48. As I have said, tax administrations are extremely reluctant, particularly the Belgian tax administration, which, as I have explained, considers this to be a loss of sovereignty. This is why the administration has not made much progress in drafting an amendment to the preventive double taxation convention. So we put the pressure back on. And indeed, Charles Michel and Xavier Bettel confirmed the agreement reached by Pierre Gramegna, Johan Van Overtveldt and me when I was present. The will was to succeed. Of course, this has not yet been achieved, but Steven Mathei's proposal goes much further than that, since it concerns all the surrounding countries and therefore all the frontier workers. The current minister, Van Peteghem, has been able to move from 24 to 34 days, although we have recommended that he move to 48 days, but there are still obstacles to his administration. You can ask him. He'll tell you himself. So we haven't arrived at 48 days yet. What I told you, too, is that we're going step by step and we'll eventually get to that figure as you propose that it be even more. For us, the only thing that's sure is that we're moving forward. We went from 24 to 34 days. We hope to spend 48 days with colleagues and with the Benelux recommendation which I tabled with Yves Evrard and which was voted unanimously. We are moving forward step by step and we want to solve the problem for all the surrounding countries because there is an interest for all the surrounding countries and for our frontier workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u97	I am really disappointed, Mr Piedboeuf, because you confirm that the weight of the ministers is zero in relation to the weight of the administration. However, as far as I am concerned, I have always believed that the policy was decided and that the administrative was carried out. Especially when it makes public announcements as strong as the one of May 18, 2019. On May 18, 2019, dear colleague Piedboeuf, two Liberal prime ministers, Charles Michel and Xavier Bettel, announced the 48 days between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and, x years later, we realize that you are asking us to study the possibility. Do you realize what you're proposing? But it is extraordinary for this Parliament! How is it possible to get there? We, Les Engagés, are asking the government to act and to live up to the promises made by Charles Michel, then Prime Minister, and Xavier Bettel, then Prime Minister and Prime Minister still today! The Engaged also ask the government to go further. One day a week, it's not enough, you have to be clear. The Belgian trade unions tell us that we are moving towards two days a week. Should cross-border workers still be discriminated against in relation to Belgian workers working in Belgium? I can't find myself there anymore! What is happening today is no longer the reality of the ground since the end of the health crisis. This no longer corresponds to the reality of the workers, as the unions interviewed on the text point out. Depending on the current pattern of work organization, it is usually two days of telework per week that are allowed. I know that the social security rules do not allow a worker to pay more than 25% of his time from his place of residence. However, in the meantime, let us take advantage of what is possible! Up to 25% is possible, hence my amendment to reach 25% now, since this is possible. It is enough to continue the negotiations and not to study! Studying is for those who want to either study or commission, and this will never happen on the ground! We ask – we demand – that all this be implemented immediately. Until this rule is renegotiated at European level, the government must now, as I said, allow frontier workers to telework 25% of their working time over a year, i.e. 55 days instead of 48 days. I have therefore tabled an amendment which is very important for all frontier workers. They are all very attentive to the development of this problem. This motion for a resolution worries the frontier workers because, for them, the 48 days were acquired. They trusted the two prime ministers. This text is nothing but powder in the eyes of the workers to calm them down, to sleep them waiting for new statements in 2024, since the election campaign is slowly beginning to arrive. The current motion for a resolution is only a significant step backwards from the agreement of 18 May 2019. Mr Piedboeuf, let us not forget that it takes 2 044 days between the agreement for the 48 days and the approval by this Parliament. I did not think it was possible that the 24 days were not yet approved by this Parliament. But that was the reality. When will the 48 days finally be a reality? I maintain my amendment and I really count on friends who really want to defend the borderers to support it because it is vital for the future of border work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u98	I would just like to say that I do not agree that this resolution is a step backwards. It is indeed 90,000 frontier workers, 35,000 of them in the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg, but the rest, 55,000 elsewhere in Belgium. When's it gonna be a step back? When nothing happens. This resolution is the starting point for a final solution, in the long term, for which international discussions must be held. We must be realistic, not from today to tomorrow. But, in the short term, we can conclude an agreement within certain rules to go up to at least one day a week. Even for this realistic slope, the neighbouring countries' agreement is still necessary, for clarity. It takes two to tango. The same goes for that agreement. So I do not agree that this is a step backwards. On the contrary, if we do nothing now, we are completely stuck. This is an important step forward, a first step, after which the international debate, at European level, at OECD level, can follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u99	I confirm what I have already said: this is a very important step backwards since we had the agreement negotiated by two prime ministers, the Belgian Prime Minister and the Luxembourg Prime Minister. Mr Mathéï, you friends of the CD&V, you should have clinged to this agreement to advance the various conventions between the other countries. That's where you made a monumental mistake. It was all there! Two prime ministers made a formal announcement. This is also reflected in the Benelux Parliament's report. It is clear that an agreement in principle to increase the number of days of professional activity in the country of residence from 24 to 48 was reached between the Belgian and Luxembourg governments on 18 May 2019. This is an important date in all these conventions. It is true that at some point we were - I recognize it; I have already said it - in the midst of an electoral campaign but I don't care! A statement made by two prime ministers still has some weight! If the prime ministers are not even respectable, I don't know what we're going to in politics!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u100	Madam President, I do not want to prolong the debate, but I must say something important. As Mr Arens pointed out, in the Benelux proposal, which is also a motion for a resolution, there is a good reference to agreements in principle, but like all agreements in principle, they must be implemented by coroners and the coroners have not done their job. That's right! But it was not the Luxembourg Prime Minister or the Belgian Prime Minister who did not do their job, it was the coroners. Irrespective of this aspect - because here we are playing politics - Mr Mathéi made an important point about the self-employed. It is true that in the Benelux resolution we referred to them. This is not yet the case here, in particular because self-employed workers generally have a permanent establishment and from that moment on they are less concerned with this type of question. On the other hand, what is happening now? In the covid period, as there was a ban on going to the neighbouring State since the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg had closed its borders, some independents, in particular lawyers who work in Luxembourg, did not cross the border since it was not possible but worked at home and now they are collecting a tax adjustment from the Belgian tax authorities! It's still amazing! Lawyers, who are independents and who must lend to the Grand Duchy, have not been able to go there because the border was closed because of the covid... and the Belgian tax authorities come to tax them! You say that it is politics that holds power, while the administration must obey. But proof is given that this is not the case! And I regret it as much as you do, dear Mr. Arens. The tax administration had to develop a method of amending the preventive double taxation convention. She didn't. We now see that the Belgian tax authorities are catching up with independents who have not been able to cross the border. In which country do we live? We're working on it. As Steven Mathéi said, we have expanded the field, as we are targeting all neighbouring countries. This is therefore a major step forward which follows, moreover, the resolution of the Benelux Parliament. I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u101	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor again. I only wanted to speak about this "back-up" and "regression" story. I am not here to judge the record of my elders in previous legislatures, but I just want to highlight the work outside the electoral campaign periods that this Parliament is doing to move forward in the right direction. We cannot speak of "regression" from the moment we suggest a higher number of days than the current regime. In order to move forward in terms of teleworking and in favour of frontier workers, Parliament is carrying out a decisive act which has not been undertaken for several years. It can be said that in the province of Luxembourg we have "an arduous advance". It can also be said that Parliament is now trying to make progress on this issue - and that is to be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u102	This is a step backwards from what was guaranteed to us by two prime ministers. Whether we are in the election campaign or not, the two prime ministers had clearly announced to us the agreement between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. I am pleased to see that Mr Piedboeuf has joined me on this aspect: the policies decide and the administrations implement. But we are in a situation where it is the administrative authorities who decide and the policies that can no longer even react or execute. On the ground, it is the catastrophe for a series of frontier workers. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u103	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u104	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u105	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Thémont, Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot, Mélissa Hanus, Daniel Senesael, Malik Ben Accour, Philippe Tison, Melissa Depraetere, Kris Verduyckt, Leslie Leoni.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Lommel and Mrs Van Bossuyt, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u107	Minister, what is now before us, namely the omnibus directive, provides, among other things, for greater transparency on price reductions. After all, we all too often see false discounts being granted in a solder period. There is then a 30% discount on a price... Can you hear me better now? (Sound problem.) I was just saying that one of the elements in the omnibus directive is that price reductions must be real price reductions. There must therefore be more transparency about it. In other words, when a trader or shopkeeper announces a price reduction of, for example, 30% on the basic price, that basic price must also be the price of the product that applied thirty days before. Sometimes we notice that there are false price reductions. In the solder period, for example, the price at which a 30% discount applies, i.e. the basic price, is set at 30% higher. As a result, the customer actually pays the same as before. It is therefore certainly a good element that the design stipulates that the basic price should be used effectively as the reference price. But there is another element that is compromised by this. It is something that we know in many cities, namely traditional bakeries. These are events that are often looked out for by a lot of people. They are an opportunity for a family trip and also offer cities the opportunity to attract tourists and others. A bridle is an event where shops sell certain products at very low prices, such as surplus stock or a very old collection. Often these bridles take place in June. However, the proposal before us threatens to disappear because, during the sale period, the price of 30 days has to be taken as a reference for the basic price. However, let that be just the bridle price. As a result, the solders would be, so to speak, false solders, if what is before us is strictly applied. The problem is that the directive which is transposed into the draft law aims at maximum harmonisation. In other words, the Member States cannot therefore provide for exceptions. Not every Member State, for example, has such bridles. So we are stuck in this area unless we use a different interpretation, because the purpose of the directive is to avoid consumer deception. Consumers are of course sufficiently aware that bridle prices are not normal but already reduced prices. If during the solders one would not refer to the bridle prices but to the other basic prices, then this is not a deception. On the basis of this lecture, the bakeries could stay out of sight. I have asked you about this before, not only during the discussion but also before. You then referred to the maximum harmonisation which would not allow for an exception. However, you have also made a promise between quotes, insofar as politicians can be asked to make promises in order to turn a blind eye to the Economic Inspectorate, so that the bridle prices are not regarded as basic prices and the bridle prices can still continue. We hope that it will be effective in practice. That is why my group will abstain from voting on the draft law, just as we did in committee. We want to build in some caution, because we hope that we will turn a blind eye to the bridles so that they will not be compromised. We can certainly support the general objective of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u108	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I welcome this bill, which contains important provisions to increase consumer protection. I am thinking in particular of the regulation of price reductions and the indication of the reference price. This issue is regularly highlighted, especially on the occasion of the Black Friday. Too often we see unscrupulous professionals fooling the consumer about the amount of the reductions. The aim of this measure is therefore to combat these practices better. This bill also aims to extend the scope of consumer protection to digital services that exchange not for money, but against the provision of personal data. This development is therefore in the right direction. In addition, I would like to mention the measures aimed at better monitoring websites of internet opinions, combating false opinions, prohibiting companies from manipulating consumers by removing negative opinions. Consumers have the right to correct and unbiased information. Colleagues, this bill will better protect consumers, which is essential to us. But I would also like to highlight a very important measure for my group, namely the empowerment measure to better regulate door-to-door sales in areas where abuses are found. This is, as I said, very important. In fact, we had tabled a bill on this specific aspect. We see, in particular, the sale of door-to-door gas and electricity contracts for which abuses have been denounced, for years, by the energy mediator. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS wants measures to be taken to prevent unscrupulous walkers from taking advantage of the increase in the price of energy and the fear that it creates to rip people off. We know that the door-to-door sale of energy is a critical sector. Reports of the energy mediator describe the well-educated techniques of the gaiters and who profile the target audience, i.e. the elderly or vulnerable. We must therefore act. The Omnibus directive that we are transposing today gives us a wide range of possible actions to strictly regulate this sector where too many abuses are listed. I know, minister, that you're watching over it and that it's a case you're working on. I hope that you will soon be able to announce very concrete measures in this regard. Colleagues, I will not be longer in my speech. As you will understand, it is a project that is in the right direction for the consumer and we will support it with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Minister, this draft law naturally ensures the enforcement and modernisation of consumer protection rules. Consumer protection is a very important thing. We often find the questions that are being asked to you as Minister and to your colleague De Bleeker when it comes to consumer protection that there are still too many malpractices. It's a two-pronged bill. Firstly, it concerns not only an information obligation, but also contracts concluded outside premises and the fact that, where there are price reductions, a reference price must also be indicated. It has already been pointed out that they often use the 'beyond and off' principle, where people feel that they get a discount but in practice simply pay as much as usual. The second part is that this bill also provides that there is a stick to be struck when an infringement or infringement is detected. I think that is certainly a good thing. Minister, we also expressed a number of reservations during the committee. First of all, it is a good thing that this draft law is of a cross-border nature. That is a good thing when we talk about infringements that ultimately occur outside Belgium or damage that would occur outside Belgium, or if the undertaking that commits the infringement is also located outside Belgium, etc. We are, however, asking ourselves questions about the controllability of this. We have also mentioned this in committee, and you have not really been able to reassure us in this respect. What we have also mentioned and are still standing are a number of actions that are excluded from the scope. It has been referred to a moment ago: the bridles which are recurring in many cities and municipalities every year, where there are a number of problems with this draft law. Those bridles are a Flemish or Belgian phenomenon that does not just occur in other European Member States, it is something that is really settled in us and often takes place before the solders. I am convinced that these bridles are not only positive for traders but also for consumers, who can at that time make a number of bargains. This European directive gives us very limited room for manoeuvre to deviate from, and we find that extremely regrettable. You said in committee that, if the reference price is finally mentioned, you would allow that to happen in the eyes of the Economic Inspectorate. I understand that, but that's not a legal basis. This does not create the necessary legal certainty. I think that legal certainty is important for our traders. We have now talked about the bridles, but there are other categories that used to exist in the old law on market practices and that are affected by them. I am thinking, for example, of the price reductions that depend on the way in which a transaction is made, for example, a collection against a home delivery or price reduction in the event of a change in the composition, the state or the content of the product. I am thinking, among other things, of slightly damaged products. A great deal has already been said about market practices in energy contracts. My colleague also referred to house-to-house sales. The aim is to tackle abuses as effectively as possible. I think there's a lot of work to be done on that. We will not be able to solve that with this bill alone. I think that many other measures are needed to put an end to this, because house-to-house sales are an important problem. There are even companies that go door-to-door on behalf of energy brands and even employ people who have a false self-employment. They're taking a team of four or five people on the track to ring the bell. I don't think this is a good practice because it surprises people. The people who don't know much of it then roll. In committee, however, I also referred to energy contracts which are not only sold from door to door, because legislation is specifically about distance contracts outside sales premises. However, how often does it happen that when you enter a supermarket or an electric store, people are standing there to sell an energy contract? I find that even worse than selling a door-to-door energy contract, because people who go shopping have no information at all, do not have a reference invoice of their contract and such and do not even have the opportunity to include those documents. It is easy to sign when you are pressed on like this, but before you come home, you are already sorry that you have signed it or you are aware that you have rolled it. Such practices must certainly be stopped. This cannot be done with the present draft law, but you will certainly have to include it in the code of conduct that exists between the government and the energy providers in the coming period, if necessary. We have put all the pros and cons of the draft law side by side. I have just said that we are questioning this, for example the fact that you say that the Economic Inspectorate will turn a blind eye in the case of the bakeries. I always find that dangerous. There is, of course, the ratio legis and the way in which laws are applied, but it must never go to legal uncertainty. However, there are also a lot of useful elements in the design and that is why we will be supporting it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u110	Madam President, it is a very comprehensive bill, and I would like to highlight one point. This bill gives the opportunity to finally do something about door-to-door or door-to-door sales of energy contracts. Especially with the energy crisis in which we find ourselves, we see that many consumers are once again confronted with it. This is also apparent from the number of complaints made by the Ombudsdienst voor Energie. When prices are uncertain, there are always people who take advantage of it and use it to get people who don't know where to get the best contract faster with a door-to-door talk. It is an essential problem. It is also a problem that has been said for a long time that European legislation has allowed us to do little or nothing. With this draft law we will still have the opportunity to intervene in this matter and to provide for stricter regulation for that purpose. Therefore, Minister, I expect you to use the draft law to regulate and enforce a number of matters by Royal Decree. It's more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u111	Madam Chair, I thank Members for their overall support for this bill and its philosophy. I think that's an important element. It is the transposition of a European directive, as has been said, with very little or no room for manoeuvre in some respects. Mrs Van Bossuyt has given a good summary of the legal context and of what is possible with the bridle directive. In fact, I am in favour of a pragmatic approach from the Economic Inspectorate in terms of bridles. That is indeed part of our commercial culture. It's important to promote that. We will have meetings with the Economic Inspectorate on how to approach this element of our commercial heritage, which is the joy of our cities and villages. As regards the question of door-to-door energy contracts and their prohibition, a reflection has been launched following the large number of complaints lodged with the Ombudsman for Energy. We are working, on the basis of several advisory opinions, to regulate this phenomenon. Mr Van Lommel has also cited other circumstances and examples. We need to develop a clear approach to this issue. That will happen in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u112	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u113	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2473/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2473/7) The bill has 38 articles. The draft law has 38 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur, Mrs Houtmeyers, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u116	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2389/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2389/6) The bill has 23 articles. The draft law has 23 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u118	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Thémont, Florence Reuter, Cécile Cornet, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u120	I refer to the written report, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we can be brief on the content of this legislative proposal: it concerns the extension of certain measures taken a long time ago in connection with the covid crisis, measures which have been repeatedly extended. I must say that the text is rather an exponent of government policy on our labour market. A year and a half after the government took office, there was no extension of ad hoc measures over and over again without a single debate on the substance. This is particularly regrettable, because there are many needs in our labour market that need to be addressed in a structural way. But that doesn't actually happen. Any crisis, whether it is the war in Ukraine or the corona crisis, is apparently good to hide behind and avoid fundamental debates. I find that extremely regrettable and regrettable. I can only conclude that the majority is apparently unable to reach agreements on structural reforms in our labour market. This afternoon I asked pertinent questions to the Minister of Work, Minister Dermagne. His answer was quite laconical and basically that there would be no problem, that everything was going well, that everything was going better. However, more and more people have to ask themselves at the end of the month whether and how they will be able to pay their invoices, almost 200,000 vacancies are not filled and 1.4 million people could work in this country, but they do not. Almost two years after the government took office, not one activating measure has yet been taken and we should put it in this text with the quarterly extension of ad hoc measures, some of which could even be structurally anchored. I will highlight one, the temporary posting of workers to another employer or in another sector. That's actually an incredibly good way to get people to taste something else, instead of getting them bogged down in a bore-out or a burn-out or whatever. It is the perfect way to stimulate personal development in the labour market, as well as to give workers the chance to remain in employment where they would otherwise be much faster, either in unemployment or in incapacity for work. But there is not even a debate on this. In this context, the N-VA has submitted legislative proposals, including for the temporary posting of workers to other employers and other sectors. It seems that the majority of people do not succeed in opening the debate, let alone reaching agreements on it. We cannot ignore the fact that the social costs, which we will all ultimately pay together, can only rise. Who does not need a good and stable income in our society? The best leap forward in terms of purchasing power is one from the inactivity towards labour income. But the government has not yet succeeded in taking one activating measure. She doesn't get any further in her work deal than modernising some of the rules of our labour law. There is nothing wrong with that, but that is far too little. That is really not enough and not enough. We are now almost two years later, and I can only conclude that this legislature will be lost for labour market policy and employment policy. That can't just be solved by trying to do better next time. It will take much more time to overcome the backlog than it took to catch up. I'm very sorry about that. That brings me to the essence of the text before us. The content can be discussed and this has often been done, but the fact is that we need to renew ad hoc measures once again instead of having one structural labour market debate in Parliament and in committee, and that is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this bill responds to the need to ensure the continuity of services in the care and education sectors, since these sectors still face problems of absenteeism due to covid-19. It was therefore necessary here to extend measures already implemented in the Act of 14 February but which expired on 31 March 2022. At the request of the NTC, the care sector was consulted directly both on the provisions adopted in the Act of 14 February 2022 and on the extension of today. It is at their request that a specific provision on social consultation has been added: the obligation to examine first internally, in consultation with trade unions, whether there are alternatives to measures. Measures will only be taken if there is no internal alternative. In addition, the implementation of the measures will be reviewed on a monthly basis within the consultation body concerned. The measures will end on 30 June 2022. Students will, however, at that time have the full quota of 475 hours of work per year, since the hours worked during the first and, now, the second quarter of 2022 will be neutralized and therefore do not form part of the annual hours quota. Thus, during the summer holidays, which are obviously a significant period of leave, students will have the flexibility to provide the necessary replacements for the rest of the health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u123	Mrs Thémont, thank you for the succinctness of your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u124	Madam President, today is 5 May, and once again we must vote retroactively on legislation. That's a bad habit of this government. Certainly in this respect, because we have been working for two years, it is a question of extending measures over the last two years. It is regrettable that we cannot even vote on legislation on time. Measures of this kind which are based on labour law should, in fact, be prohibited. We should impose on ourselves that we do not. After all, it is not a definitive solution. By always working retroactively, we must also provide certain information with retroactive effect and we must promise those who are covered by the system that it will be okay, within five or six weeks, by then it will be possible to settle it. That's not proper communication from the government. The staff shortages that we are talking about in the first place and with which we are still being beaten are not new staff shortages. The problems with hands too short on the beds in care or for the blackboard already existed before the corona crisis. If we are debating yet another extension of the existing measures today, I would prefer us to debate whether our time and work are putting into a structural solution for those hands that are too short of care or those hands that are too short for the blackboard. Then I come to really activating measures, it was also in Question Time this afternoon. There is a large group of inactive people in our country, mainly in the Walloon Region and in the Brussels Region. And then there are the fake measures proposed by this government, namely to fly in some of the migrant workers from the Middle East. First of all, we need to look at the other side of the language border, which is a little easier. It would also solve something more than another plane full of migrant workers. The re-admission of successive fixed-term contracts is something we oppose for our party. With regard to people in temporary unemployment, the way in which it is resolved today, we do not support it. Temporary unemployment has certainly taken a big shock in recent years, but that shock has been done today, the economy is living up like never before, the search for willing workers in Flanders is very large, because there are tens of thousands of jobs that are not filled. So I think we should finally close this period. If there are still certain very specific cases, we need to take specific measures. We cannot therefore continue to extend the general measures. Summer is also in the country, let us finally close this period and look to the future. So we can conclude the corona crisis and the bad measures that followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u125	Madam President, here we are facing an extension of work flexibilization measures that dates back to the very beginning of the pandemic. In our view, we are no longer in the same situation at all. It is true that the pandemic is not yet completely behind us, but these measures were initially due to the fact that there were many sick people because of the covid and many quarantines. This has decreased sharply today. What are these extensions? I will mention a few of them. The aim is to give the possibility to conclude successive fixed-term employment contracts for workers who are temporarily unemployed or to make workers available to users in these two sectors, health care and education. This means that a worker could be transferred to another school or hospital. This also gives the possibility of suspending work interruptions to return to work. The same applies to pre-pensioners. This also helps to neutralize the hours of students in these two sectors. It goes without saying that, for us, it is not possible to continue with this extension of flexibility for a long time to come. It is true that there was support for the few safeguards and demands made by the social partners, such as the measure that the employer cannot use the temporary unemployment period to replace the notice period. There are also other countries that go much further, such as Spain, which has outlawed dismissals when a company uses temporary unemployment for co-vid or the effects of the crisis in Ukraine. We believe that we could also draw inspiration from this policy in Spain on this subject. For the rest, we believe that there are indeed structural problems in these two sectors that really deserve long-term structural responses, that we are still waiting and that we are not seeing, like the attractiveness of the trades but also the hours that need to be more correct and decent pay in order to be able to reduce the workload and avoid the number of burn outs. It should be recalled that this morning teachers were still demonstrating in Liège to demand structural measures to enable them to carry out their profession properly. For all these reasons, apart from a few articles, we will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u126	Madam President, to hear my Socialist colleague explain that the extension of the possibility of hiring students in the second quarter would guarantee the continuity of care in health care services, frankly, ladies and gentlemen, it is really the pomp! I'm telling you, it's a hit for the health care staff. Do you know that there are today 6,000 vacancies for nurses? Six thousand! There are up to 30% hospital beds that are closed for lack of nurses, and you come here to explain that a few students will ensure continuity of care. Do you measure how clashing your speech is? And it is even more so when, in the same week, you have a bill passed in committee that dismisses unvaccinated caregivers, which prohibits them from exercising in a totally disproportionate and unwarranted manner, as the Supreme Council of Health and the Vaccination Task Force have clearly stated. Let me tell you that the way you present things is obviously totally unacceptable. With this system as it exists, in practice, you want to compensate for layoffs of unvaccinated caregivers by hiring untrained and unvaccinated students. Recognize, however, that you are struggling to ensure a minimum of credibility and consistency with the comments you have just made here. We are still waiting for an ambitious and robust plan of attractiveness for nurses in this area, including their working conditions, reconciliation with their family life, their remuneration, recognition of pension hardship. These are all themes on which the government does not move from an iota. However, I repeat, the number of students will not be able to compensate for the shortage of nurses and the closure of hospital beds that we know today. We have always supported, in addition to an attractive plan for the nursing profession, the provisions for student engagement. If you are planning to do so in the second quarter, I cannot help - as I did in committee - arguing through an amendment to take the third quarter into account. Indeed, it includes the period of July-August, during which hospital staff and nursing homes recorded a decline. In addition, it is at this moment that summer holidays are organized in hospitals and nursing homes. It is not June 1 or June 15 that they are planned. Moreover, this is already the case in several establishments. Therefore, explaining that it will be necessary to wait for the last minute for the third quarter is tantamount to completely ignoring the organisation within these institutions and the need for anticipation for the summer period, particularly as regards the commitment of students in logistical terms. I am therefore submitting this amendment relating to the third quarter. We have also been told in committee that the social partners have not yet expressed their views. In substance, we still do not know it, since - despite our requests - you have not transmitted it to us. Colleagues, if you really are paying attention to the reality of health care institutions and their organization, it should not be planned for the second quarter, but it should be planned for the second and third quarters now. That is the subject of the amendment. We will then see whether you are attentive to reality or only in the speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u127	I would like to give some answers. There was consultation with the social partners. Moreover, in its opinion of 7 December 2021, the National Labour Council asked the government to consult directly with the sector on these measures. A meeting was held on 13 December 2021 between the political unit of the Minister of Labour and representatives of both public and private health workers and employers. It concerned the measures to be taken for the first quarter of 2022 in the Act of 14 February. Following this consultation, a provision on social consultation was introduced in the texts. This provision did not exist for previous periods, i.e. consultation on the use of measures within participation bodies. It was also agreed at that meeting to carry out an evaluation and to consult again on a possible extension. This consultation took place on 11 March 2022. It is true that there is no formal consultation body and therefore no formal opinion or text. But I imagine that the sector can no doubt confirm that the consultation has taken place. Again, there has been a request from trade unions for a provision that has been added, namely the obligation to examine internally, in consultation with trade unions, whether alternative solutions exist before resorting to support measures. As for the extension of the measures for students for the summer you are proposing, the social partners have not requested an extension after 30 June. With regard to the work of the students, since you raised in committee that this could be a problem for hospital staff during the school holidays, I said that the 475 hours of the students were neutralized. This means that for the months of July and August, students will still have the 475 hours available. That's why we thought there would be no problem during the summer holidays. You said in committee that it would be a problem to replace and for nurses to take their days off.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u128	I take note, Madam President of the Committee on Social Affairs, that from now on it is enough to say that there has been an opinion of the social partners with whom we have spoken one day so that it is taken into account for all the texts examined in the Committee on Social Affairs. Of which act! Because, to my knowledge, on 11 March 2022, the social partners did not say that an extension should not be considered in the third quarter. When we do not give an opinion when we make it mandatory for all the other texts, let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that this raises a number of questions. I hope you have the intellectual honesty to recognize it. In the third quarter, therefore, there was no consultation and I do not see why you are justifying the refusal of the extension to the third quarter, i.e. July, August and September, because allegedly the social partners would not have said so. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but this is not a reflection of reality. Finally, as far as holidays are concerned, in committee you explained to us that students should be able to take leave. I think that in June, the students are under blockade and generally, it is rather during the holidays that they have some time. So yes, if we are planning an extension of what had been done for the first quarter, which was extended here in the second quarter, it is of course logical to do so also for the third quarter so that arrangements can be made for an organization sufficiently anticipated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u129	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u130	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2610/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2610/4) The title has been amended by the Committee on the "Proposition of a law extending the various labour law measures for the benefit of the care and education sectors in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19, concerning the suspension of the notice period given by the employer during a period of temporary unemployment due to force majeure resulting from the war situation in Ukraine and concerning the ecolage clause". The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law extending various employment-related measures for the care and education sector in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, concerning the suspension of the notice period given by the employer during a period of temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to the war situation in Ukraine and to the training clause." The bill has 18 articles. The bill counts 18 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u131	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u132	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Joris Vandenbroucke, Laurence Zanchetta, Marianne Verhaert, Jef Van den Bergh, Kim Buyst, Nicolas Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Raskin and Mr Roggeman, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, e-steps, monowheels and other motorized propulsion equipment used to be more toys. Today they are increasingly appearing in the street as an effective means of transport. There is also a new niche for partial steps, especially in larger cities. We cannot go around this new reality, especially since these aircraft are also in traffic. This does not always happen flawlessly, partly because of a lack of regulation. Colleagues, experts have often referred to this lack of regulation. Doctors, who see significant increases in injuries, sometimes even with serious injuries, are also hitting us with figures. Unfortunately, we cannot say that fatal accidents have never occurred with such devices. I can therefore say that the demand for minimum rules has been widely borne. Minimum rules are the right word for reading Mr Vandenbroucke's bill. That proposal is not overly regulatory, it is not too restrictive. It meets an existing demand and need, without being too restrictive. It is generally a question of introducing an age limit for heavy-duty equipment which determines speed. It is about the fact that we only allow one person per aircraft. It is also about the principle of banning its use on the footpath, subject to a number of exceptions. Madam President, I had the feeling that the text tabled by Mr Vandenbroucke was welcomed by almost all the political groups. As a result, we were able to get to work immediately in committee, by requesting a number of opinions. Mr Vandenbroucke, you remember that these opinions were generally positive. I am now going down a bit, but in fact everyone who was questioned, both Centrex and policemen as well as Vias institute, broadly agreed with what Mr Vandenbroucke proposed. Madam President, that feeling was almost shared by the House, were it not that there was one negative opinion after all. However, we fell off our seats when we saw who was the author of the negative opinion. That was none other than the Minister for Mobility, Mr Gilkinet. He proposed that Mr Vandenbroucke rewrite the text and make it a motion for a resolution. In this Parliament, many of the motions for resolutions are adopted on a weekly basis. I do not want to take any part in this, but it is only proposals of resolution, recommendations to the government to set certain things in motion. However, this text is a legislative proposal that would have concrete impact. Minister Gilkinet suggested that Mr Vandenbroucke abandon his plan. Perhaps the Minister has the ambition to achieve something from the coalition agreement, for example the revision of the road code, and wanted to put that plume on his hat himself. We'll never know what's good about it, but his advice was there. The conclusion was that almost everyone was in favour, except for the Minister, who apparently did not give that success to his esteemed colleague in Parliament. I will not quote Mr Vandenbroucke, but he probably thought: 'Mr Gilkinet, that is not what you are going to decide'. It commends Mr Vandenbroucke for sticking his foot down, so his text has not at all reworked into a motion for a resolution. He knew that he was supported by many experts and MEPs across the political groups. We then continued to work on this text against the will of the Minister. Mr Vandenbroucke also rightly wanted to work on it. After all, what are we going to do if we let the government determine our work? Then we'd all better stay home. That's not the way we're supposed to work. The text before us, through amendments from the committee and with contributions from outsiders, is still somewhat refined with regard to a number of technical regulations, parking rules and the exceptions already mentioned to the age limit. That refinement was also possible thanks to the legislative note from the Legal Service of the Chamber, which I would once again like to thank for the work that has been done. That too has made the final text even more thorough. That is how we arrived at the text which was adopted in committee and which is before us today. This text was initially by Mr Vandenbroucke and was fine tuned by the committee members against the will of the government. That can also be mentioned here. The text before us was initially not wanted by the government and was edited, discussed and improved. Mr Vandenbroucke, like two weeks ago in committee, we will support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u135	Madam President, I thank the author of the text, Mr Vandenbroucke, for allowing the debate on the legislative framework for micro-mobility to be organised. As already mentioned in committee, this debate allowed us to recall, in the opinions received, the stakes involved in this regulation. On the one hand, there is road safety with the explosion of scooter accidents. At Belgian level, Vias counts a thousand such accidents and about 400 in the Brussels Region alone for the year 2021. And it is only the visible face of the iceberg, that is, the accidents listed. On the other hand, there is the cohabitation of modes of travel with conflicts with other active modes, the risk of collision with pedestrians, the anarchic parking that hinders them and the PMRs. The text proposed today will make it possible to enhance the safety of users of micro-mobility devices through age limitation, the ban on travelling several times on a scooter, the imposition of visibility equipment. It will also allow for the protection of other users through the ban on traffic on sidewalks and the possibility of establishing well-identified areas without parking and reserved parking. As we mentioned, one of the challenges of our work was to be consistent with the inter-federal work at the government level and initiated at the same time. The Minister of Mobility cannot be blamed for being concerned about mobility. It would have been incomprehensible to adopt measures to have already had to adapt them a few weeks later according to their agreement. There were also readability issues for observers and the general public. That is why we have indeed timed, the time that the work of the inter-federal group has been completed, between the federal and the federated entities. The opinion of the Regions was also important in this matter. Regional cooperation is important when addressing road safety issues. I am surprised that the N-VA wanted the federal government to settle as early as February without waiting for the opinion of Flanders which we received only in mid-March, after the agreement of the Federal and the Regions. If it's a plea for the hierarchy of norms, we can start the debate, Mr. Raskin. I'm open. Nevertheless, after years of legislative vacuum that has allowed chaos on the ground, we move forward by linking two constructive dynamics for our country: that of federalism of cooperation, since we respect the framework of the inter-federal agreement on the subject, and that of a majority that is moving forward constructively and quickly by leaving it to Parliament to conclude, at least in this committee. I can understand the bitterness – and their leash – of these people opposed to these positive dynamics. Micro-mobility can help combat car congestion in the city centre. However, there was a need for a clear framework to ensure greater safety for all users and coexistence between modes of travel. With this text, it will be done. Thank you again to the author!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, six days ago a press article said: "The electric scooter is not a game. An accident can leave physical, functional, aesthetic and psychic sequelae." Subsequently, two studies remind us that scooter safety remains a random phenomenon and is still sensitive to many different parameters. One of these studies carried out in a Brussels hospital shows that 80% of the patients involved in a scooter fall achieved their fall alone, but still in a hostile context. Colleagues, the city is not a flat track. It remains filled with obstacles faced by scooter users. The purpose of this bill is to regulate and not to prohibit. If there is an increase in scooter accidents, they must be put in perspective. Indeed, these accidents are much less serious than motorcycle or scooter accidents. With this text, and given the growing use of scooters, we are redefining our mobility, which is increasingly opposed to the monopoly of the individual car. Light and small, scooters have taken their place in public space because they meet an alternative need for mobility. Whether it is parking or cohesion and respect for other means of mobility, this text enables us, ladies and gentlemen, to make progress in this area. It was indeed time to provide a framework by, in particular, allowing road managers to restore order with, for example, adequate and dedicated parking areas. This text allows us to move forward and adjust the place of the scooter on our roads. Of course, we are aware that the issues relating to the place of scooters in a sustainable economy, in terms of their lifespan, production, import and recycling, are all challenges that we still have to tackle. I thank the author for his initiative and my group for their quick support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislative proposal on the regulation of the use of the e-step. It is undeniable that this proposal was necessary. In recent years, the e-step has become a very popular means of transport that can no longer be imagined out of the street. The more popular a means of transport becomes, the more it is used and the more accidents it involves. Unfortunately, the e-step is no exception. In 2020, more than 200 e-step accidents occurred in Flanders alone, unfortunately even two deaths were to be regretted. We've all seen e-step users of all ages tearing at high speed across the footpath. We were also confronted in the media with doctors and surgeons who told us what serious jaw, face or other injuries they had to treat as a result of accidents with such steps. For this reason alone, it was high time that this was defined in terms of regulation. In this sense, the Flemish Interest is also pleased with the changes made by this bill. For example, propulsion devices that drive faster than step-foot are treated as cyclists, with the exception provided for wheelchair users. There is also a ban on transporting passengers. The content has already been outlined by the previous speakers, and I shall therefore abstain from doing so. Apart from the content, as discussed in our committee, we, the Flemish Interest, were surprised to find that one of the majority parties, during the discussion in committee, came to a halt. The previous speaker, Mr Raskin, also referred to it. At a time when, as an opposition party, we were enthusiastically ready to approve the draft bill before us, the Ecolo-Green Group suddenly did not want to do so and in this way gave room to their minister, Georges Gilkinet, who himself wanted to create this by means of an interministerial consultation. So he effectively asked for the bill to be converted into a resolution. Fortunately, that was not admitted. A legislative initiative by a majority party which was able to count on the support of the opposition, but which is not supported by a majority party, actually says a lot about internal communication and cooperation within this government. I therefore find it strange to hear one of the majority here calling for federalism to be co-operative when they are not yet able to work together within the government. However, let that not stink at the final result that is being put to the vote today. Despite this turn of events and some minor reservations that the Flemish interest still has, we will certainly support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, mobility is changing, and legislation has to adapt to new practices. For several years, the use of electric scooters has become common in large cities, where they are self-service, while causing problems of wild parking and road safety for users as well as for people travelling around these scooters. More and more individuals also own these scooters and use them as a means of locomotion, sometimes in addition to another means of transport. The establishment of a clear legal framework was an emergency in order to clarify the conditions for the use of electric scooters and other related soft mobility vehicles, in order to fill the legislative vacuum around these means of locomotion. The government agreement refers to the desire to stimulate other sustainable mobility solutions, but also states that smooth and sustainable mobility is essential for our economy as well as for the freedom and quality of life of citizens. As part of its expertise and in collaboration with the Regions, the government will therefore focus on soft, collective and multimodal mobility. We fit perfectly into the government agreement. The MR has therefore supported various elements of the bill tabled by Joris Vandenbroucke, whom I thank, in order to maximize safety and clarify the conditions of use. On the one hand, the minimum age for the use of such a device will be 16 years, depending on the power, and the latter can only be used on the carriageway and only by one person at a time. However, exceptions will be made for those under 16 years of age using these vehicles. Traffic in the streets reserved for games, the dyke, the RAVeL, could be allowed for these users, as long as they respect the solitary use of the machine. Similarly, it is planned to put in place a specific sign in the near future, in order to clarify the authorized places of storage, without hindering the passage, and the places where the parking of these devices on the road will be prohibited. The safety of users is also a priority, of course, by putting in place elements such as various retro-reflectors and other reflectors in order to improve the visibility of users. Various penalties are provided for non-compliance with the rules of use and parking for these users, in order to encourage them to adopt a responsible practice on the public highway. The issue of helmets will also have to be addressed in the future on the basis of experiments and studies carried out, in particular by the Vias Institute, in order to ensure the safety of users during accidents. Of course, in the future, there will be changes for this type of mobility, because of course developments will be brought about and popularized. The safety of users of this type of moving equipment, but also of drivers on the road, remains a priority for everyone, so that the public space can be used by all without risk. Together with my colleague Vincent Scourneau and all the colleagues in the majority, we are pleased to arrive at this bill quickly. We thank all colleagues for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, when I took note of Mr Vandenbroucke's proposal, I was not entirely enthusiastic. We sometimes tend to try to give all possible forms of mobility their own box in our Road Code and in our public space, while we should especially strive to ensure that all road users live together in public space. Trying to regulate everything in detail often doesn't add up. So I was a little skeptical. Many new forms of mobility have also appeared in the street over the last 20 to 25 years. If one had to give them all a separate place in our Road Code and on our public road, that would lead a long way. The challenge of bringing all this together is greater than to settle all this separately. That is why I had some hesitation and asked for opinions, which were largely positive. There have been some comments, and we have therefore taken a constructive approach with a number of amendments to improve the text. Meanwhile, the Minister had asked to wait for the interministerial consultation. This has led to the adaptation and improvement of the text, with aspects relating to parking of the sub-steps, which is an important point to be dealt with by the Regions. I think that a nice package has now been put together, which will make an arrangement, including on the footpaths. We had questions about this at first, because there is a big difference between a footpath along a busy regional road or in a busy city and a footpath on the farm outside, making one place more suitable for driving on the scooter than the other place. It is then sometimes binary to pour that into legal texts, while it may depend on one place and on the other less. In the end, we thought it best to take steps in this respect, given the figures of the accidents and the serious injuries that occur with those steps. That is why we will adopt the legislative proposal in its entirety. I would like to thank Joris Vandenbroucke for the initiative and all the colleagues who contributed to it. I think we have come up with a good text which deserves our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u140	Colleagues, it is a good thing that e-steps are being regulated. It concerns road safety, mobility and access to public space. It is important that citizens, especially young people, are protected from the dangers of the e-steps. E-steps actually occupy part of the public space. The companies they rent shoot out of the ground like mushrooms and compete to take the market. This provides an oversupply and therefore the PVDA advocates that we regulate not only the use of e-steps, but also its providers, because before we realize it, they will fall into severe competition and we will see practices such as PostNL. Therefore, the PVDA wants the public players, such as De Lijn, the TEC, STIB and SNCB, to offer technically compliant sections. We are already taking a good step, but we can take a step further if the public players also offer partial steps. For us, it would be the ideal solution for the public transport companies to offer sub-steps at each station, at stops, at bus and tram stops. I would like to make two further comments on the proposal. First of all, the use of e-steps does not always take away a car. Sometimes one takes an e-step instead of going by bike or on foot. We must also bear in mind this ecological aspect so that there are not too many e-steps circulating, as they have an ecological impact due to the not so long life of the devices. Secondly, what are we going to do with the young people who already have an e-step, but who will not be allowed to use the e-step until 16 years old? In any case, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u141	Madam President, I would like to thank the members of the majority and the opposition for their positive speeches. If I have listened carefully, my bill can now be signed. The majority parties will soon count on unanimity. I am pleased that we can reach a unanimous consensus in Parliament on a number of issues. That is a good thing, in this case for road safety. The reasons for this bill have been discussed in great detail. The e-step is an incredibly handy thing. It is compact, light, fast, durable and highly available, but the increasing success also increases the number of accidents. Then there are two cases to be dealt with. One can then discourage or even prohibit use, because it is a little too dangerous. However, one can also choose to look for a way to improve road safety with clear rules, thus integrating the e-step, yet a recent phenomenon, safely into mobility. I believe that this text, which has been supplemented by several amendments, has succeeded in doing so with opinions and ideas from colleagues, Mr Gilkinet and the regional governments. The age limit, the ban on driving on the footpath, the ban on taking passengers, the parking rules and some technical requirements remove a number of annoyances. With regard to the course of the text, there are two remarkable things, Mr Raskin. I believe that the text can be voted on quickly compared to many initiatives in Parliament. There are barely five months between the publication of the bill and the final vote. There has indeed been a very parallel course with Minister Gilkinet, who has taken the initiative, together with the regional ministers, and who has also thought about it. I would like to thank colleagues from all the political groups for their parliamentary reflexes, which have allowed us to bring everything together in a legislative proposal that we will be able to adopt unanimously here. I am very pleased with that. I look forward to the following proposals that we can deal with in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u142	Madam President, I too would like to thank Mr Vandenbroucke for the introduction of this bill. It is a bill and you know that I appreciate the bills more than the motions for resolutions, the latter being often intended to go on a shelf in any cabinet of ministers to gather dust. Colleagues, the bills are moving things, and that's good. This proposal is a good development in terms of security. Finally, it fills a legal gap by introducing rules for the use of motorised machinery which is no longer as new as this. Vias was able to compile accident statistics for 2021. Electric scooters are involved in a good thousand accidents a year, sometimes with important consequences, especially in the head and jaws; in some cases, they are fatal accidents, as colleagues have said. It was therefore time to legislate without waiting for the famous reform of the road code promised by the government. Now, Mr. Vandenbroucke, you were right to lead your fight. It is time for us, too, to assess the possibility of going further. It is true that we have thought about wearing the helmet, for example, since the doctors tell us that the sequelae are the same as in the case of a bike fall, sometimes even more serious. I didn't want us to punish our party president, Maxime Prévot, who often leaves his car in the streets of Brussels, when there are traffic jams, to jump on a scooter while he doesn't wear helmets, all to be with us in time. This is the next step. We must first raise his awareness and then we will be able to go further. Our group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u143	Dangerous behaviour must be avoided. You will tell that to your president. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that a few years ago we saw the scooters rush through our streets. We saw them break into our lives, especially in our cities. I don't even count the times when these scooters left me alone. They allowed me to move from point A to point B quickly, but rarely in a secure way. Today, the statistics of Vias have objected to it. They report an increasing number of injuries involving the users of these scooters, but also an increasingly difficult sharing of public space, particularly with weak users such as pedestrians and people with reduced mobility. However, we do not have to choose between ease and security. Both must go hand in hand. It was therefore necessary to ensure that this new mode of transport could take its right place in our daily lives, in our urban landscape, in harmony with other modes of transport. This harmony is particularly crucial when, as in the case of my party, it has always been argued for intelligent multimodal mobility. It was therefore appropriate, as this bill does – and I, like my colleagues, would like to thank Mr Vandenbroucke – to finally set legal beacons for the use of this scooter: the minimum age of its user, the ban on scooter rides on sidewalks, precisely in order to protect weak users, or the exclusive use of scooters by a single person. All these details will help reduce the risk of accidents, sometimes serious, very serious, but will also help to ensure a better balance between the various transport units in the public space. However, I must draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Arens has just done, to the importance of including the obligation to wear helmets in future discussions on micro-mobility. My group has long supported the obligation to wear helmets for a wide range of users, for obvious reasons of safety and a reduction in the number of injuries, sometimes serious. Pending this debate, the issue of the provision of helmets by scooter owners should also be discussed. Despite this pitfall, my group will enthusiastically support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Just as the e-steps are numerous in the streets, there are also numerous interventions about the text. I will be brief, but I would like to say a few things about this bill. I would like to start with what Mrs Vindevoghel says to support. The e-step is a means of transport that can help to achieve the modal shift we are all striving for. The e-step is mainly used for short journeys. This can also be seen when you walk from the Central Station to Parliament, then you sometimes have to take hellish tours to avoid the e-steps on the sidewalks. Despite the fact that they certainly have added value to the modal shift, it is important that a number of rules and regulations were drawn up. This bill, which was originally tabled by Mr Vandenbroucke, was intended to make it possible for him to emphasise this himself in order to improve road safety. That is a priority in our committee. For those of you who do not attend our committee very often, I would like to invite you to come and see how constructive we work there when it comes to improving road safety. Road safety is something that we all attach great importance to and for which we are really trying to work together in a constructive way. In addition to working together between the political groups, it is also important to cooperate with the regions. That is why, in my view, it is normal that we should also look at the work that regional ministers are doing together with the federal minister. Cooperation federalism is incredibly important if we want to increase road safety, and that is something we wanted to achieve with this bill. It has already been repeated by several colleagues: there are now rules that make it clearer where the e-steps on the lane are located, what is the minimum age and whether or not you can bring a passenger. I agree with Mr Van den Bergh when he says that it is really important to think about the whole road code. That, I think, is something the Federal Minister is working on and we expect results from it after the summer. I think we're all waiting for that, too. But it's good that we didn't wait to introduce some rules for the e-steps. Steps strengthen the alternatives to the car in urban centres and it was therefore necessary to strictly regulate its use, both for the users of the e-steps and for the other active road users on the track. It is therefore with great pleasure and in a very constructive way that we have cooperated in the drafting of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u146	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u147	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2354/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2354/8) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads with regard to the regulation of travelling equipment". The title was changed by the Committee to 'draft legislation amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules for the police of road traffic and the use of public roads as regards the regulation of propulsion equipment'. The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u148	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u149	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kim Buyst, Nicolas Parent, Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy, Kristof Calvo, Cécile Cornet, Guillaume Defossé, Stefaan Van Hecke, Albert Vicaire, Samuel Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u150	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u151	I refer to the written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u152	Smoking must be discouraged. Smoking kills. Every government therefore has a duty to discourage this wherever possible and to invest in prevention, in campaigns and in public awareness. The smoking ban is also evident in public buildings, in the hospitality industry. At locations where people come together in closed spaces, we must ban smoking and prevent passive smoking as much as possible. That doesn't change the fact that the bill does deserve a few nuances. In committee, that was not so obvious. Some colleagues were rather keen to interpret critical reservations about this bill as a plea for smoking, let alone smoke prevention, which is of course by no means the case. We can only hope that the debate in plenary will be more fair. In any case, a legal ban on smoking in the open is a big step. Whether smoking should be banned in the open is a fundamental question. In some situations, the answer is yes, if it presents a danger to safety, for example in a forest or in a heathland, where there is a fire hazard. The answer is also yes in areas where many people are close to each other, without being able to move, outside the reach of cigarette smoke, for example in the gallery at a stage. However, this is about open-air train platforms, where there is no safety risk, where people are not stuck to a chair, where passers-by have the opportunity to move freely outside the impact or environment of cigarette smoke that would hinder them. A smoking ban on the open-air platforms is therefore far from useful. The vast majority of the open-air train platforms in this country are located in rural areas where boarding is relatively low. I would like to point out to a colleague that at some national stops the guards are more quickly placed next to a cow than next to a fellow traveller. This strengthens me in my conclusion that a general smoking ban on the open-air platforms at any station is not on the agenda at any time of the day. Such a ban is like shooting a cannon at a mosquito and in practice contributes little or nothing to public health. A ban on smoking in the open air, where the smoke fades, where there is no nuisance for other travellers and where there is no risk of passive smoking, makes no sense and above all serves to make it more difficult for the smoker. I am not a smoker myself, I have never smoked and I do not intend to; I am against tobacco, but I am in favour of free choice. If, despite all prevention campaigns, people choose to smoke, fully aware of the health risks, who are we to beat that cigarette out of their hands? Let us discourage, raise awareness and point out the risks, but ban them in places where there is no obstacle to third parties makes no sense. Dissuade yes, prohibit no, all the more so because practice deviates from theory. If a smoking ban on open air platforms becomes a reality, the result will be that you will oblige smokers to smoke just outside the stations. The result will not only be greater concentrations of smokers, but also of cigarette smoke at the entrances of stations, which can only lead to more nuisance for travellers and a greater risk of passive smoke. I do not think that this is desirable for the image of SNCB either. In stations without smoking areas - and that is the vast majority - railway workers will be obliged to smoke in uniform at the entrances to the stations. Do we want SNCB to carry that image out? I do not think that is desirable. Shall we discourage smokers by letting them smoke in more visible places? My fear is that this proposal will achieve the opposite. The author was quite right to say in committee that watching smoking makes smoking happen. She is right, but the proposal makes that even worse by centralising smokers at the entrance to the stations, where everyone has to pass and where they are well in sight. The nuisance will increase, the bad example will increase. The objective behind the proposal is noble, but it is tackled by the practical implications of the legislative proposal on the ground itself. I'm concluding. We are talking about a smoking ban tout court and not a smoking ban to prevent or discourage smoking, because this is threatening to increase the nuisance. Those who today, after all campaigns from among others Kom op tegen Kanker and Generation Smoke-free, still choose to smoke, will not convince you with an obligation to move 100 m. The chance that someone will stop smoking is low to non-existent. You don't solve a problem, you just shift it. You make it more visible, thus achieving exactly the opposite of what you intend to do with the bill. We shall therefore abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u153	Chairman: Séverine de Laveleye. Vice-President
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised that I do not agree with the previous speaker at all. I'd like to argue that, too. For the Ecolo-Green Group, this bill fits primarily in creating a healthy living environment. After all, an important dimension of health policy is, in addition to combating disease, also preventing it. It is a comprehensive and powerful anti-tobacco policy for us, aiming at a smoke-free generation, and that is the main objective of this proposal. Fourteen thousand people die every year from tobacco. That's almost 40 a day. Worldwide, it is the most important avoidable cause of chronic illness and death. The consequences of passive smoking are also often underestimated. Most smoke ends up in the ambient air, with more harmful substances due to incomplete combustion. Indeed, Mr Roggeman, I said it at the committee meeting and I shall now say it again: see smoking, do smoking. I also said at the committee meeting that I am an ex-smoker myself. Ten years ago, I quit. The moments when I had the hardest time holding on were the moments when I saw other people smoking. By making the platforms smoke-free through a general smoking ban, we contribute to the ambition that is incredibly important to our group, that smoke-free generation. This was also included in the government agreement of the Vivaldi government. We also see the same reasoning in large football clubs such as Club Bruges and Anderlecht, which made their stadiums completely non-smoking. And also with various municipalities that set up non-smoking playgrounds and sports grounds, precisely to set an example for society, for our young people. By setting up smoke-free such places, we denormalize the cigarette. That's a first argument. Besides the health problem, smoking also contributes enormously to the plastic soup. Cigarette butts are the second most commonly found single-use plastic product on the beaches of the Union. A smoking ban on the platforms thus also contributes to tracks and platforms with fewer cigarette butts. That, too, is a very important argument for our group. Smoking-free platforms also make waiting for the non-smoker more pleasant. Another important argument is that the ban removes confusion. After all, I do not know if you know, but today you can smoke where there are no covered platforms and not where the platforms are half or completely covered. At the moment, therefore, it is not always clear for travellers where smoking is and is not allowed. A general smoking ban provides more clarity in the regulation. As with the existing smoking ban in the stations, the ban applies not only to traditional tobacco products, such as cigarettes, but also to new forms, such as vaupen and heated tobacco. Why I am particularly proud today that the bill is before the vote here, is because it has also shown a good cooperation with a local government. It was on 25 November 2021 that all platforms in Mechelen station were made smoke-free. That measure came up against Ms Rabau, city council member, and was part of a project of Generation Smoke-Free. Mechelen started the pilot project in this way, but at that time we, the federal level, were already being looked at before the general introduction. We had to take care of the legal framework. That is why our group has tabled the legislative proposal and why we have indeed obtained various opinions after an initial explanation. There are a number of elements to be noted from these opinions. SNCB's opinion shows that 69 percent of passengers support the principle of non-smoking platforms. A survey by the Foundation against Cancer shows that 62% of Belgians are in favour of a smoking ban on platforms. I hear the opposition's arguments. I also hear the argument that the problem is being moved to the entrance to the stations. I have already replied to that in committee. I would like to repeat that answer here today. I would like to refer to examples from abroad. In the Netherlands, for example, the Association of Dutch Municipalities has drawn up a useful checklist for municipalities wishing to introduce or introduce the ban, because they have a station to help them prepare for the smoking ban. SNCB also indicated that it would place the necessary ashtrays at smoke facilities far enough from the entrance, so that passengers would not necessarily have to pass. We also see in the pilot project in Mechelen that it can be done that way. In its opinion, the Foundation Against Cancer also points out that the European Union's single use plastics directive allows tobacco companies to bear the costs of collecting cigarette butts. This scheme could be developed at regional level, hopefully the Regions will be listening. In committee, we were still adapting the original text, because we felt it was important that we clarified that it was no longer the intention to allow exemptions from the general regime on smoke-free places. This means that, under the strict conditions laid down in this law, smoking rooms for workers and smoking rooms in the hospitality sector are also included in this scheme. There is therefore no special regulation for these areas in the stations. They can thus evolve with general legislation. The scheme will start on 1 January 2023, as several opinions have indicated the importance of providing sufficient time to inform passengers and staff about the adjustments. Generation Tobacco-free indicated in its opinion that it is important to raise awareness of travellers in advance, via numerous communication channels such as media, website, social media, speakers in stations and so on. She advises to opt for a positive communication: SNCB makes all its platforms smoke-free. Moreover, the period before entry into force on 1 January 2023 also gives SNCB the opportunity to take any transitional measures for staff. As SNCB supports the bill, we are confident that it will support its staff in the transition to smoke-free platforms and a smoke-stop for its staff. I am delighted that we can vote on this text in Parliament today. I would like to thank colleagues for the constructive debates in committee. For me, this is an important step forward towards a society that is becoming increasingly smoke-free.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it may not surprise you that I am a little less enthusiastic. The Flemish Interest recognises the importance of everyone's health and the damage that active or passive smoking can cause. However, as far as this bill is concerned, I am still hungry about the argumentation. Despite the fact that the previous speaker has done her best to provide arguments for the bill, I am still not convinced. I'm quoting three arguments. The creation of a healthy living environment is not achieved by this bill. I'm sorry, but I don't understand how this bill would do that. By introducing a smoking ban on the platforms in open air, a smoker will move to another location where smoking is allowed. Persons who passively smoke more on those platforms will be replaced by persons who smoke more at the alternative location that smokers will seek out. I sense a displacement of the problem here. However this is organized, there will always be people who smoke and people who will have to smoke passively. So I don't see any profit in that. Progress will only be made if people are persuaded to quit smoking, but this proposal does not contribute to this. The smoking ban on the platforms in the present legislative proposal amounts to an additional ban. That brings me to your third argument, that of clarity, so that people know where it is allowed or not. However, it remains an additional ban. What was first allowed is now prohibited. This implies that some people will be surprised, will not agree and will violate this ban or will enter into discussion with the enforcers. In this case, the staff of SNCB will have to maintain the ban. That ban will therefore lead to discussions. The same thing happened after forcing the wearing of mouth masks. This also sometimes led to discussions and aggression. The same thing will happen here, it's written in the stars. It is also written in the opinions of the trade unions of those workers, but these opinions seem to be ignored and ignored. I note that SNCB staff are increasingly being subjected to verbal or physical violence, that there is a shortage of operational staff and that there is an outstanding balance of 90,000 compensation days. We risk making that even worse with this ban. One last argument I just heard was the plastic soup. For this there is an easy solution, namely ashtrays and garbage bins. There is also enforcement and punishment. That, in my view, is also a non-argument. We certainly recognise the importance of health and the fact that smoking is harmful, we do not question that at all. However, I still do not hear a good argument. For me, this is yet another rule, yet another ban that is being introduced, something that this government actually characterizes. A truly valid and rational argument I still haven't heard. We are in favour of sensitisation and good campaigns. So we do not disagree on that. Convince people to make the free choice to quit smoking, because that would be the best result. So we share the concern for a healthier society, but we will abstain from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u156	Colleagues, I will be very brief. Mr Buyst has already made many arguments. I must say that, as with the previous bill we discussed here, I asked myself at first whether we should do this. After that, however, I have put everything together. I also read the book by Marc Michils, the general director of Kom op tegen Kanker, in which he writes about his organization and the fight against cancer and for a smoke-free generation. He talked about the efforts that have been made and the reasons for this. All that really surprised me. Maybe I should have known that for a while, but 14,000 people die every year from smoking and its consequences, such as cancer. I believe that such a figure speaks for itself and that it makes it a no-brainer that we need to evolve towards a smoke-free society. For example, we also evolve in football stadiums towards a smoke-free environment. Not only at Club Bruges and Anderlecht, which Mrs Buyst cited, but also at KV Mechelen there is a smoking ban in the stadium. At first I thought it would never work with the supporters. Still, it works. It doesn't work for 100 % yet, but it evolves in that direction. The same applies, for example, to sports fields and playgrounds. The steps forward towards a smoke-free environment where people come together, where people don't see other people smoking and where they shouldn't necessarily smoke more. The consequences of smoking, including the waste in the environment, provide sufficient arguments to fully support this and thus lay an additional stone in the path to smoke-free society. So you will have all the support for this bill, Mr Buyst. Congratulations on your initiative, and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u157	Colleagues, smoking-free public spaces such as platforms is an important social debate. We must therefore ensure that all points of view are taken into account. Smoking is and remains a persistent addiction faced by passengers and train crews. That's a reality. We believe that the primary objective should be to relieve people of this addiction. However, we have a lot of comments to make on this bill. Firstly, it is about enforcement. At first sight, what seems to be a good idea is not so obvious in practice. Who will have to check, appeal to the smokers and issue fines? Will that be the station manager, who has already been abolished in many places? Is that supposed to be the clerk who's disappeared in a lot of places? Should we call Securail? We all know how long it can take them to get there. Shall we entrust the local police with these duties? What are we gonna do, go for facial recognition cameras? In short, there is no staff available to enforce this ban. Today there are already a lot of problems with aggression in and around the stations. The staff of SNCB are therefore not in a position to play policeman. This could be a trigger for further cases of aggression against staff. So we need to be very careful about this case. That is why it is also important to draw attention to the advice of the trade union, which raises the problem of the number of employees in particular. In April, 3.882 trains were abolished because there was insufficient staff. That's hallucinating. That is the main concern of SNCB at the moment. We also find the attitude of SNCB to this issue to be a problem. There are still many shops in the stations where tobacco is sold. Perhaps an example should be taken of the Netherlands, where the sale of tobacco in those shops is prohibited. SNCB could therefore ensure that there is no supply of tobacco and cigarettes. That would be a step in the right direction. From the workers' point of view, we think that the timing of this proposal is poor, because there are so many problems with the workforce. That is now the main concern of the staff. By the way, how will SNCB deal with this problem with the staff? When staff has to wait, sometimes it still smokes a cigarette quickly. Will SNCB also carry out effective campaigns, as happens in more companies, to discourage smoking among the staff? SNCB must now, in the first instance, make serious efforts to supplement the staffing framework, so that there are enough people, including those in the window, to carry out the job properly. Taking into account the interests of travellers and staff, the PVDA-PTB will therefore abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u158	Madam President, I would like to thank the authors of the legislative proposal, which, as far as I am concerned, is a matter of common sense and, above all, the consequence of a health policy on smoking, which many in Parliament only pay lip service. When it comes to putting it into practice, they come up with all kinds of arguments which, in my opinion, have little interest in reality. I refer, for example, to the caricature that Mr Roggeman makes of smokers who join forces in front of the entrance to our stations, where non-smoking fellow travellers will have to venture through a wall of smoke to go to the platform. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. I have been paying more attention to the proposal because I happen to live in the city with Flanders' main passenger station and there are not so many people smoking on the platform, for the simple reason that there are usually only a few moments, at worst only a few minutes, unless one lives in the Kempen, where one has to wait a little longer for a train. In any case, I think it is only natural that a platform, which, as far as I am concerned, is extending the inside of the public space that is the station, does not raise a cigarette, right next to fellow travellers, who have not chosen to breathe that smoke. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore supports the proposal. I would like to mention an important point, in particular the enforcement of the smoking ban. I understand the demand of SNCB's staff to make very good agreements on this, because a rule stands or falls, of course, with its enforcement. We must be careful not to push certain staff into a role that they do not actually have. Others are better suited for this, but I have every confidence that that can work out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u159	Madam President, I just wanted to react to some of the comments I heard about this measure. The bill at stake is a balance of interests between two legitimate objectives: to de-sanize smoking, but also to preserve the rights of individuals in public space. As I mentioned in committee, my group made the necessary contacts with the railwaymen to ensure that sufficient guarantees for a thoughtful application of the law had been obtained. That's the case. Our major concern with the proposed legislation that is before us today is the implementation of the measures it provides for. To this end, further monitoring will allow us to verify the effectiveness of such a device for individuals present at a station, whether commuters or staff members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u160	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Buyst for the tabling of this important text which deserves the discussion we have at the moment. I welcome the fact that this is a bill and not a motion for a resolution. It will not be a text that will be in a cabinet somewhere but a text that will come into force and make things move. Of course, I am committed to supporting this bill. It is true that when we know the cost of tobacco on public health - some have specified the number of victims per year - we cannot be insensitive to all this. This is a fine proposal that I will support with my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank our colleague for the tabling of this important text on smoking, which is a real public health issue. Every year, nearly 8 million people around the world die of tobacco causes. In Belgium, every year almost 20 00 deaths are directly caused by tobacco. It's a staggering figure when we know that 2 million of our fellow citizens are smokers. To reduce these figures, it is essential to adopt measures that are ever more ambitious, diversified and complementary. Active and passive smoking must be combated in all sectors, wherever it occurs, wherever tobacco impoverishes, makes it dependent, makes it sick or even kills. I would like to thank the colleagues of Ecolo-Groen who introduced this bill. A public undertaking such as SNCB must set an example by accepting that from 1 January 2023 all its docks will be added to the list of places where smoking is prohibited, whether or not these docks are covered. I hear that the N-VA colleagues are offended, stating that the ban on smoking would be justified where many people are concentrated in the same place, which would not be the case with the docks, in their humble opinion. Thus, there would be a distinction between wharfs in the city and wharfs in the countryside, for which this ban on smoking would not be justified. Like my colleagues, I'm not following you. In the countryside, there are fewer trains, one every hour, where in the cities there is one every 5 or 10 minutes. When there are fewer trains, there must be a greater flow. In the countryside, there are also fewer docks. In my commune of Rhode-Saint-Genèse, there are two docks, one to go to Brussels and the other to go to Nivelles. Here too, I hope that this will change thanks to the voluntarism of our Minister of Mobility and that we will soon know this famous RER that we are talking about so much. When there are fewer wharfs, there must be a greater concentration of travellers waiting on the same wharf. There are those who go to Brussels-Central then, those who take the train that arrives five minutes later to go to Antwerp and those who take the train that arrives five minutes later to go to Brussels-Luxembourg. All these people are focused on the same platform to take different trains. The difference that would apply to wharfs both in the city and in the countryside does not, in my opinion, hold the road. This measure that my party supports should not, in our view, be seen as a punitive measure. On the contrary, it must be seen as a preventive and even an incentive measure, that is, a measure that would contribute to our common objective – I think, I hope at least – to encourage our fellow citizens to take the train ever more and in conditions that are acceptable to all. It is also a measure that will protect young people from early exposure to tobacco in public spaces such as these train stations. This measure, the health sector has been asking for it for a long time, too long. I'm thinking mainly of the Cancer Foundation or Tobacco Free Generations. The citizens also support this measure. It is not negligible since it is ultimately this support that will guarantee its applicability and ultimately its effectiveness. In fact, a survey conducted by the Cancer Foundation shows that 62% of those interviewed are in favour of a ban on smoking on docks, particularly because it would make waiting much more enjoyable for travellers who do not smoke. This measure, too, is supported by SNCB. She said: "There are many advantages in this regard. Among other things, there are benefits to the health of all travellers and SNCB staff." This has been recalled by my Socialist colleague at the moment. "The ban on smoking on the docks will also reduce the number of butts on the docks and in the lanes, which will also improve the cleanliness of the station and the comfort of travellers." My group agrees with these findings because they highlight all the benefits that are associated with this ban in terms of public health, prevention and the environment. I would also like to point out that in the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, this ban on smoking on docks has already entered into force. We have every hope that this measure will be a real added value in our fight against tobacco use, but this ban must be effectively controlled. However, according to the Union des Villes et Communes, it would be difficult for the railway police, but also for the local police to carry out this check, particularly because of a lack of resources. It will therefore be necessary for the vote on this text to be accompanied by a genuine budgetary effort for our communes so that they can prepare, by the date of entry into force of this text, therefore by 1 January next, for the introduction of this ban both as regards the controls and the potential increases in attacks on staff which could result, and as regards other aspects such as the displacement of the problem of butts at the entrance to the stations. It will also be necessary to rely on the correct information of commuters via different information channels so that they can learn about this new ban. We will ensure that the federal government can support federated entities in this important process. In conclusion, my group will enthusiastically support this ban on smoking on the station docks, a measure that will have to be part of a comprehensive and structural tobacco control policy that will have to be driven by a true inter-federal plan. It is, in the end, a necessity for our health for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u162	Madam President, I must inform you that, to everyone's surprise, I will probably not approve this bill. I won't approve the bill, but not because I want to defend the smoker. Like all of you I find smoking Russian roulette playing with health, it stinks, it's annoying and it shortens life. Nor will I defend it from the point of view of smokers. Like Mr Van den Bergh, I have read quite a few books on this because I was confronted very closely with the consequences of smoking in my private life. My father died of lung cancer. He had more tar in his lungs than he had in his driveway. When he told me he had lung cancer, I asked him what he would do and he replied that he would change doctors. So that rebellion is probably in the genes because I like freedom. A book I've read, and perhaps you could all read, is the book by Robert N. Proctor, The Nazi War on Cancer. Nazi Germany was the first country to carry out anti-smoking campaigns under the motto Your body is the Nazi and the Führer. Not that I suspect you of that, absolutely not. I've been through enough exaggerations in my long career. In 1999, there was even a green minister here - l'histoire se répète - Magda Aelvoet, who wanted to ban chocolate cigarettes, because that led to obesity. I haven't eaten enough of it, but I do suffer from obesity. But I never smoked. Why do I say that? In your bill, Mrs Buyst, you are talking about the percentage that approves the smoking ban on platforms, which means that 38% of people do not approve of it. For the Greens, a party that does not yet represent 10% of the company, 38 % is not much. How can we take account of that 38 %? That is to say that those 38 % do not all have a clear picture. Among those 38% there are many weak people, people who are addicted, people who do not go to the stage of Anderlecht or Club Bruges, but who do have to take the train. This is a necessity, for example, to go to work. If one leaves the train and needs a nicotine shot, I have respect for that. The smoker has become a bit of a leper in our society. It always has a reason. There are indeed 16,000 dead. The smoker, however, is a leper in society. We started to ban the smoker from his cafe. He was an asylum seeker in his own cafe: he was allowed to smoke outside. If he leaves the train now, he can't smoke anymore. I live by the sea, with the healthiest air in the country. In Ostend, Mr De Vriendt, they may have the best croquettes, but we have the healthiest air. I'll come back to the second part of your bill relating to second-hand smoke. A huge number of scientific studies have been published by the Flemish Institute of Healthy Life on this subject, which says how dangerous smoke is. However, I like the Flemish Institute of Healthy Understanding. The World Health Organisation did not yet find any negative effects of the lake smoking in a 1998 study that was now out of date. However, I admit that there are negative effects. Then a study has been published by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which are the richest insurers in the world. If they say anything, it's always in their favor. According to them, smokers live less than four years on average, i.e. 1,460 days. Not only they, but also the well-known British Coventry Laboratory states that a person who is constantly exposed to passive smoking at home and at work receives only one thousandth of the dose of smoke from a smoker. Thus, passive smoking reduces life expectancy by one and a half days. My wife smokes too, and that's no reason to divorce. We can be a little laughing about it, but for me it is mainly about solidarity with the weak, the addicts. There is much more solidarity with cannabis smokers who are 30% more likely to have schizophrenia than with smokers. Smokers are being banned from our society. We are gradually evolving into a society of health abuse, a repressive health state. I know there's no rational reason to smoke. I've never done it in my life, ever! I've done too much sports for that. But denying another the right to smoke a cigarette in the open air, or even a cigar for the rich, I know that's not in the left-wing church I'll always oppose it. Anyway, I still think it's a right to smoke outside a cigarette. I'm gonna ignore that patronizing and repressive society. I am perhaps still an old May '68'er. I see Mr Mertens laughing and I should put forward a bill 'banning'. We are really going to a ban company in which everything brings pleasure and solace... You are right, ma'am: seeing smoking does smoke, watching eating does eat. I am an example of drinking and drinking does drink, but if one stops drinking and eating one dies, so one has to be careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u163	Madam President, "everything that is excessive is insignificant" and I am not going to dwell on some of the points that have just been made. Obviously, the plenary session is sometimes confused with the drink! I'm a part of a tobacco generation, I grew up with tobacco in football bars, in the hairdresser, in the car, in the train, in the cafes... all without being a smoker. Recent years have seen the progress of legislation that has made these shared environments more enjoyable for all, despite initial concerns. Today, where are we? Mr Van den Bergh has made a number of observations, and they should be repeated. In Belgium, tobacco kills 14,000 people every year, almost 40 people a day. It's a figure you can't get used to, and there's not a day to lose from that. We know our strategy. There have been laws: the price on tobacco, places, messages... But it's quite ineffective, we have to admit that we can do better. And it is the government's commitment, the majority's commitment: by 2028, a reduction in overall tobacco consumption, especially among the younger ones. It is also on this basis that the "Tobacco-Free Generations" movement was initiated, with - in particular - the Foundation against Cancer. "Tobacco-free generation" aims to ensure that children born after 2019 are no longer exposed to tobacco. We talked a lot about smokers, we talked less about new generations. It is also for them that this text is intended, with the aim of effectively limiting passive smoking, but also, as a preventive measure, to avoid the repetition of behaviour between generations and to get out of the loop. The call for "Tobacco Free Generations" is wide. He turned to individuals, but also to the public authorities and the communities, with the football stadiums of the Pro League - which had adopted a general ban on smoking since the 2021-2022 season - or the communes, which had followed suit by making the playgrounds smoke-free, for example in Verviers. This is also the case in Flanders, in some N-VA municipalities. Mr Roggeman, you told me in committee - and I thank you for your arguments, which were constructive in relation to others - that the prohibitions in these communes are primarily aimed at preventing fires. As a good historian, like you, I went to check Beveren's regulations to see what is the reason for the ban on smoking on outdoor playgrounds and sports. Here is the argument: "Beveren is committed to ensuring that as many places as possible frequented by children are non-smoking. This reduces the risk that children will light a cigarette later, and they are also protected from harmful substances contained in tobacco smoke. Of course, smokers are not obliged to quit smoking. In addition, research shows that the vast majority of smokers indicate that they do not want their own children to start smoking. There is therefore a broad basis of support for this initiative. Municipality of Beveren". You can go to the site of the commune. I share this analysis and strategy supported by the N-VA at the local level. To these arguments for a smoke-free environment, including in open - air public environments, Suzanne Gabriels, a tobacco prevention expert at the Cancer Foundation, adds: "Tobacco is an addiction. It's not a free choice. In this sense, measures that prohibit smoking in places are effective in coping with envy." Like the Dutch Railways as a public company carrying 900,000 commuters of different generations each day, SNCB can play a particularly strong role in this new prevention policy. After banning smoking on trains in 2004 - I did not listen to the debates of the time but it could have been interesting - having extended this ban to its stations and buildings accessible to the public in 2009, SNCB wants to make all its docks non-smokers. This proposal aims to achieve this ambition and SNCB is preparing for it with the pilot experiment in Malines, which will give us an opinion in a few months' time. This opinion coupled with the amendment by placing the effective ban on the measure on 1 January 2023 must make it possible to organise a positive communication campaign so that everyone can be made aware, personal and commuters. This will also make it possible to reinforce the support for the public health message that it conveys beyond the clichés that some are already relaying. Clarity and the power of communication are key issues in limiting a marginal dimension, incomprehensions and, ultimately, fines. But we can be confident. According to a survey conducted by SNCB among its customers, seven out of ten travellers reported that they were in favour of a ban on smoking on all docks. This is not the only positive opinion received: SPF, Minister of Health, Minister of Mobility, Dutch Railways, Foundation against Cancer, it is therefore a broad coalition and not only the will of a political party. Questions were raised about the text. As far as trade unions are concerned, positive and constructive contacts have taken place not only on health but also on tensions between staff and commuters. The amendment is intended to establish a transitional period for SNCB to have sufficient time to inform travellers of the new rules. This transition period must also allow us to take full advantage of the pilot experience of Malines and Charleroi to adapt the devices and messages to commuters and staff. This transition period will also allow for the continuation of the dialogue between the voluntary SNCB and its staff. Aside from this, there is a broader debate on train safety. It was also initiated by our group in committee to strengthen staff in railway stations and on risk lines. This debate is also ongoing within the government, with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. As far as moving behaviors to station entrances is concerned, I don't have a crystal ball. But in what proportion and where? The pilot experiments will undoubtedly allow us to adapt the implementation of the system in the field. You see potential negative impacts. I also see solutions, not only to reduce the consumption of smokers, but also to prevent some from starting, according to the argument that "seeing smokes". Smoke-free wharves are also an important environmental decision. The ban on smoking on the docks will reduce the number of butts on the ground on the docks, and thus on the tracks, which will improve the cleanliness of the station and make the shared space more enjoyable. There is also a social dimension, of course. Poverty makes people sick; illness makes them poor. Socio-economic indices have a strong impact on life expectancy, the proportion of chronic diseases, and the need for care. Therefore, we need a strong prevention policy. Of course, this debate on tobacco prevention policy goes beyond the station docks. For this reason, municipalities have followed suit and have also banned tobacco on children's playgrounds. This is in addition to other measures such as improving weaning assistance to reduce the number of smokers and help smokers. In this regard, the Respiratory Illness Fund launched the "Together Towards a New Breath" campaign, which focuses on well-being activities. The Foundation against Cancer has also launched the "Buddy Deal" which proposes to stop as a duo, starting this May. So this is the right time. This is the momentum to enable SNCB to contribute to this prevention policy, so that tomorrow we can actually give a chance to a tobacco-free generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u164	Madam President, I have listened carefully to the various speeches and, despite the differences of opinion, I have found an astonishing consensus on the principle behind the proposal. I have heard from every speaker, across all party boundaries, that we should discourage people from smoking. I agree with Mr Van den Bergh that too many people smoke and too many people are victims of smoking. But the key question is, of course, how do we get people off the cigarette? My answer is then that we should focus on smoking prevention. Mrs Buyst has quite rightly referred to many cities and municipalities in Flanders that rely on non-smoking generations. Mr Parent made it even more concrete by referring to municipalities and cities with which the N-VA participates in local government, which carry out distress campaigns, including Beaver. I will even give you a more striking example, Mr Couple. I, as a ship of Health in Dendermonde, set up self-defense campaigns, place signs on the playgrounds to discourage people from smoking and whether or not they stop smoking because of smoke-free generations. Mrs. Dierick is sitting there making gestures. She's a part of it. What a wonderful example of cross-party consensus. Raising people's awareness, convincing people, that's the guiding principle. But your proposal goes a lot further, of course. Your proposal isn't aimed at derailment. You don't want to convince me. You want to ban it. You can't smoke. And why isn't that allowed? Because it's in the law! Point on the line. One can go a long way further; there it can be. That is what the proposal says. Be honest, of course, that doesn't convince you. In the meantime, Mr Vandenbroucke has left the Half-Round. He called it a caricature that smokers would collect at the entrance of the stations, but that is of course only the logical consequence. Mrs Buyst herself said that SNCB wants to place ashtrays near the entrances to the stations. Of course, the fact that smokers would use these ashtrays is not a caricature. That is simply the reality. They were invented for it. If watching smoking, does smoking, what I fear along with you, is the last thing you should do is collect the smokers at a location near the entrances to the stations, in sight of any passerby. That doesn't take smoking out of normality. On the contrary, you perpetuate it. The proposal is therefore counterproductive. You will therefore not be surprised that we stick to our position and that we will abstain in the vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u165	Mrs Buyst, you have the floor, but we will collectively ensure that we do not repeat all the debates, which were rich at committee meetings. In any case, as a co-author of the bill, you can conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u166	Madam President, I will be very brief. I have said that SNCB will place ashtrays in the smoking areas provided or where it wants to give smokers the chance to smoke a cigarette. I didn't say that would be at the entrance. In Mechelen, for example, this is rather further from the entrance. The argument put forward by Mr Vandenbroucke also applies here, namely that it is not intended that someone who wants to take the train stays in the station for a long time. Normally, you're only gonna be there for a minute. I understand people would need that nicotine shot. It's not obvious for addicts. When you get off the train, however, it is not the first thing you should do to light a cigarette. You can walk a little further and put that nicotine shot on there. The most important argument for this law is the next generation, which we grow up in a society where it is normal to have smoke-free spaces. That's how we're gonna dissuade those next generations. It doesn't mean we make people quit smoking. It will be easier to leave the cigarette, but it is especially important for the next, smoke-free generation. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u167	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u168	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2082/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2082/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u169	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u170	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Koen Metsu, Yngvild Ingels, Sigrid Goethals, Frieda Gijbels, Kathleen Depoorter. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2498/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2498/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u171	The rapporteurs, Mr Vandenput and Mrs Chanson, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u172	I appeal to Rule 88 to draw attention to the proposal for a resolution on ambulances. That was voted away by the majority a few weeks ago without any justification. I have not heard anyone speak against it, quite the contrary. Apparently, in the corridors he could count on some support. Nevertheless, the motion for a resolution was defeated. We are simply asking that the status of the paramedics and non-firefighters be reviewed. No more, no less. We put that question in a very open proposal for a resolution to our Minister for the Interior, but she did her best to look for nails on low tide in order to criticise the proposal. I'll give you two points. Firstly, the Minister stated that the ambulances-non-firefighters do not deserve a specific end-of-life system, because their function would involve fewer physical risks than that of a firefighter. Is that really true? I'm afraid to say that. We have written our proposal together with a number of paramedics. One of them is Michael Dalschaert. GDPR-wise, I was allowed to say his name here. I advise you to contact him. After an aggression incident during work, he suffered a severe back injury, which means that he will never be able to perform his job as an ambulanceman again. The claim that the function of ambulance-non-firefighters is less risky is highly questionable. Secondly, the question was asked as to what budgetary impact the measure would have. It's not about a huge group, but it's about first responders. These are aid workers who jump into the breach 24 hours at 24 hours and 7 days at 7 days. We had asked for a calculation of that budgetary impact. According to the Minister, that was not necessary, as the budget is not available at the Home Office. That, of course, is not an answer to our question. Apparently, at the moment, no budget is available at the FOD State Department. When it comes to the Navap scheme or the FGP, which we are finally able to hear soon after a long time, it is not wrong that we should put those objectives first. I put our motion for a resolution back on the agenda, not from the naive idea that everyone would suddenly have seen the light and changed their voting behaviour, but by asking for the text to be adopted and, if necessary, adapted. Delete our name and put your name underneath it, because by serving the proposal without any justification, and I think you are well aware of all this, you are not touching the N-VA, but you are touching the limited group of aid workers who serve everyone every day. That is why I felt it necessary to draw attention to this once again, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u173	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u174	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 May 2022, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the draft law (Ms Barbara Pas and Mr Tom Van Grieken) amending the Royal Decree of 18 April 1974 laying down general rules for the implementation of the Law of 4 January 1974 on public holidays, as regards the replacement of 21 July as a statutory holiday by the public holidays of the communities, No. 1466/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 May 2022, I propose to send the following legislative proposal to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions: - the bill (Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Tom Van Grieken) amending the Royal Decree of 18 April 1974 laying down the general rules for the implementation of the Law of 4 January 1974 on Public Holidays, as regards the replacement of 21 July as a public holiday by the public holidays, No. 1466/1. This bill had previously been referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters. This bill was previously sent to the Committee for Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u175	By letter of 22 April 2022, the President of the Constitutional Court stated that, following the retirement of Mr. Jean-Paul Moerman on 14 August 2022, a vacancy for a French-speaking judge would be published in the Belgian Monitor on 16 May 2022. By letter dated 22 April 2022, the President of the Constitutional Court announced that a vacancy for the office of French-speaking judge will be published in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 May 2022 as a result of the resignation of Mr Jean-Paul Moerman on 14 August 2022. This vacancy will be filled on the basis of Article 34 § 1, 2° of the Special Law on the Constitutional Court. The vacancy will be filled on the basis of Article 34, § 1, 2°, of the Special Law on the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 May 2022, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 May 2022, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u176	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, No. 2656/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, No. 2656/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u177	Madam President, there is a regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which will enter into force on 26 May 2022. The draft for which we are calling for urgency is urgently needed in order to be able to implement and implement that regulation and to guarantee the fulfilment of our country's obligations towards the European Union. In particular, it concerns the designation of the FAGG as a competent national body for a number of cases. The entry into force of the draft law to be adopted after 26 May 2022 implies that all current legal provisions contrary to the Regulation would be automatically repealed, while the provisions of the Regulation requiring the intervention of the national legislator could not be enforced or implemented, in particular the applications for authorisations for the initiation of clinical trials could not be examined, since, inter alia, the College of Clinical Tests would not yet have the power to designate an ethics committee for this purpose. The same applies to a number of other provisions relating to incidents, their reporting, the detection of infringements of the Regulation, etc. It is also important for legal certainty that the draft law is adopted and for all these reasons it is essential that the urgency be allowed by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u178	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u179	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u180	Mrs De Block, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 2672/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u181	Madam President, this is a resolution by Mrs Verhaert and Mrs Liekens on sexual violence in the armed conflict in Ukraine. This is urgent because the Mukwege Foundation has already found over 400 testimonies of sexual violence and rape. Not everything is recorded. It is therefore necessary to collect evidence on these war crimes. We also want to join other countries such as the UK. That's why I'm asking for the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u182	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u183	It has come to our attention that colleagues Jadin and Marghem cannot be present for a good reason. Colleagues Buysrogge and Wollants will change their voting behaviour accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u184	Thank you very much, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u185	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 27 April 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 27 April 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 268/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Gitta Vanpeborgh. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 268/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Gitta Vanpeborgh. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u186	Madam Chair, this motion concerns the "benefits" of the victim's bombing card. For years, this map had to guarantee certain benefits to the victims of attacks, but in terms of content, it is still far from what the victims expect. Victims' associations are constantly calling the government on this issue, and they have not been able to respond to their expectations. I am therefore making an attempt to address this gap. I have tabled a motion of recommendation to fill this gap. I hope that there will be unanimous support as this is a matter of human dignity for the victims of the attacks that our country has experienced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u187	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u188	Yes 75 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u189	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions of 27 April 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 27 April 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 273/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 273/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u190	Madam President, when the internal frontiers of the European Community were abolished in 1993, customs officers were included in the establishment plans of the motor brigades. However, level 2 and 2+ staff included in those motorcycle brigades do not receive the same advantageous tantième for the pension calculation as their colleagues included in level 3. At the beginning of 2019, the Constitutional Court gave its opinion on this situation. The Conditions of Employment of Levels 2 and 2+ shall be considered unconstitutional. The principle of equality and non-discrimination is violated because the level 2 and 2+ stakeholders carry out the same work as level 3 staff. Both levels perform identical benefits and therefore have the same obligations, but are treated differently at the end of the journey when calculating their pension. In the committee, I interplayed with Minister Lalieux about this injustice. She announced that a draft law would soon be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs in order to rectify this problem. My party welcomes the fact that the problem will finally be addressed, but it is regrettable that the customs officers concerned have had to wait so long for that correction, namely since 1993. Let us not forget the importance of the Customs and Excise Service. Almost every week we hear in hooray reports that Customs and Excise have again intercepted a large shipment of drugs. Those people literally risk their lives every day. They face criminal gangs and serious crime and fight with unequal weapons. It may also be said that this service has been treated stepmotherly for years. The service is not only undermanned but also lacks proper equipment such as scanners and protective equipment such as bulletproof vests. There are still many examples. This means that those involved have to carry out their work under very precarious conditions, although they carry out a necessary task in this country to protect trade. Moreover, they also generate a lot of revenue for the Belgian treasury. As there is still no draft law on the table, I would urge my motion to introduce a more favourable tantième as soon as possible for the calculation of the pensions of the customs staff of levels 2 and 2+. It is only logical and just that this failure should be rectified. I am therefore counting on the unanimous support of this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u191	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u192	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u193	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 27 April 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 27 April 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 275/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 275/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of specialist investigators, the federal judicial police in Brussels have decided over the last six months not to investigate 53 cases further. In September 2021, Attorney General Delmulle warned us that the Brussels court would be forced to make choices in the fight against financial fraud. In 2014, 103 detectives worked there, while on 1 September 2021 they were still 87. The Court of Appeal has also lost sight of the delay in criminal matters. Since 12 October, the Brussels court has spent every month trialing all the files on economic and financial crime. There are three scores. Score 1 is priority, score 2 routine and score 3 files that are no longer under investigation. In the last 6 months, 290 pending files have been reported and at least half of them have been scored 3. That's insane. I am talking here about tax fraud, social fraud, bankruptcy fraud, payment card fraud, investigations into the hidden assets of convicted criminals and any European investigation warrant or international legal aid request that is no longer being carried out automatically. We are talking about a huge amount of money, money that would be very useful for the justice system and for which people are simply not looking anymore. Moreover, the Attorney General fears that even triage score 2 files will not be dealt with or will be dealt with far too late. Hence the urgent motion to take the necessary measures in the short term so that the federal judicial police have sufficient resources to conduct all necessary criminal investigations, so that Justice can pursue a policy with the right priorities and so that Minister Van Quickenborne finally applies the follow-up to the money principle in his policy paper, tackles impunity and restores confidence in justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u195	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u196	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u197	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 27 April 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 27 April 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 277/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 277/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u198	Madam President, the non-execution of prison sentences of less than three years has been a major problem for many years and has been indicted on several occasions. For more than two years, the Minister has also announced with a great deal of poeha that the non-implementation of these sanctions will be stopped. In practice, however, we have to note that it is always a policy of announcements and that there are rarely actual actions. Just on the day that I held my interview in committee, 27 April, a draft bill from Minister Van Quickenborne was announced, a draft that was dealt with as a matter of urgency in committee and will be discussed in plenary next week, and that will once again show that the government remains in charge of announcement policy and words are not translated into action. I shall confine myself to that brief statement, as we will have the opportunity to discuss it in detail next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u199	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u200	Yes 82 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u201	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u202	Yes 90 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u203	Vote on amendment No. 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert a recital F(n). (1376/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert a recital F (n). (1376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u204	Yes 31 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 2/1(n). (1376/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 2/1(n). (1376/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u205	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck introducing an application 7(n). (1376/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 7(n). (1376/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u206	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u208	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u209	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Josy Arens on request 3. (2365/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 from Josy Arens on request 3. (2365/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u210	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u212	Yes 128 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u213	Madam President, I would like to give you the reasons for our abstention. Of course, we would have liked to have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. However, our amendment, which improved on what has been presented to us, has been rejected and we see a real setback in this motion for a resolution. Indeed, we are talking about "studying" a solution while the Belgian-Luxembourg borderers were very happy since the agreement of 18 May 2019 made it clear to them that they now had the possibility of teleworking for 48 days. Therefore, inevitably, although we are very much in solidarity with other borders, from the north, etc., we cannot agree on such a phenomenal step backwards as this when there has been a declaration and agreement negotiated by two prime ministers. Two prime ministers!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u214	Thank you for your explanation, Mr. Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u216	Yes [[109]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u218	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u219	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to Article 13.(2610/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck on article 13.(2610/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u220	Yes 4 Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u221	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to Article 14.(2610/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck on Article 14.(2610/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u222	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to Article 16.(2610/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck on article 16.(2610/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u223	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on the title.(2610/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on the inscription.(2610/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u224	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u225	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u226	Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u228	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u230	Yes 81 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? (Non) Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u232	Yes 76 Yes Non 53 No. Abstensions 2 Abstentions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2498/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2498/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-05-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip177x.u233	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Minister Van Quickenborne indicated that he was not present in our country on Wednesday. He'll be here on Thursdays. Therefore, Bill No. 2645 will be considered on Thursday instead of Wednesday. This is agenda item 2, which therefore slips on Thursday's agenda. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Wednesday 11 May 2022 at 4 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, May 11, 2022 at 4 p.m.
