ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u1	Mr President, Secretary of State, since your last visit to the Economic Committee, Russia has violated international law by declaring war on Ukraine. The return of an armed conflict on the European continent has revived military spending in various countries, including Germany, which has significantly increased its military budget. But this is also the case for Belgium, which decided to increase military spending by one billion euros after having already allocated ten billion euros to defence. The military budget will thus increase to 1.54% of GDP by 2030. Mr Secretary of State, do you not fear that these investments will run counter to those destined for the ecological transition, especially since we know that the armaments sector is among the most polluting? In addition, following the Versailles Summit, what additional resources have been allocated to achieve the European Union's energy sovereignty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. D'Amico, your question is based on various elements relating to the competence of the Defence. So we organized with the Defense Office to provide you with some answers today. We are indeed living in troubled times when we have to act on several fronts, the first being that of the climate transition by ensuring social cohesion and the following, of course, being the security issues with the war in Ukraine and the consequences that this entails in particular in terms of energy supply. As you mentioned, the government has chosen to strengthen its Defence efforts to respond to the call of its NATO allies and to address this new security environment. Recent events force us to strengthen our military capabilities. I fully endorse this objective despite myself, but the context requires it. In addition, my colleague, Ludivine Dedonder, has been carrying out, since the beginning of the legislature, a remarkable work of reconstruction of the Department of Defense, which must be welcomed and whose first beneficiaries are the Defence workers, particularly in terms of new commitments and salary upgrading. I think these are key elements of his policy. With respect to the impact of Defence's activities on the ecological transition, it should be recalled that sustainability is a very important principle within Defence, particularly on Principle 7 of the STAR Plan, recently approved by the Council of Ministers, which states that Defence is committed to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its operations and facilities, without compromising the safety of its personnel or operational efficiency. For example, this STAR plan provides a path towards carbon-neutral and sustainable real estate assets by 2040. In addition, as you also mentioned, following the Versailles Summit, the European Commission has taken the initiative REPowerEU, which aims to accelerate investments to limit energy dependence on Russian gas and oil. I find it interesting. This contributes in some way to the same objective, that is, the nature of projects to accelerate the environmental transition is relatively similar to the projects of REPowerEU to increase energy independence from Russian gas. It is interesting to see that our human societies respond faster to an incarnate and imminent threat – a war – than to an abstract and more distant threat of global warming. The two initiatives are in the same direction. In REPowerEU it is a question of taking measures to better regulate energy prices, to relax the rules on state aid, to speed up the development of hydrogen. There is indeed a debate which we are following very closely in the run-up to the next European Summit at the end of May on the precise action plans and, where appropriate, the budgetary resources which will be made available to finance these objectives beyond the recovery plans and the resources already allocated. You are aware that European Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni, Socialist and former Italian Prime Minister, has taken open positions to say that the type of financial mechanisms we have put in place for the post-covid recovery plans (NextGenerationEU) should be replicated to finance a plan such as REPowerEU. It is a bit the nerve of the battle war on the European stage in the coming weeks. I hope that, despite the heaviness of the context of the crisis in Ukraine, this will serve as an accelerator for investment policy and the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, without wanting to minimize the important role of Defence and that of investment in personnel, we would have liked more ambition in terms of energy recovery and a little less expenditure on armaments. But that is our political vision of things, which differs from yours. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, the relay plan was drawn up last year. We are now, of course, in a new situation with the war, but I would like to know how this plan will be implemented. I asked this question last year, but I have not yet heard a single solution. On the contrary, it gets worse every day. Perhaps it will not even be necessary by September because of the crisis. Maybe we won't even need people anymore. I sound a little bitter, but that's the reality. I understand that you are very interested in the European story and that we certainly have to take account of the war, Mr Secretary of State, but I wonder whether the re-launch plans will be revised in substance? Are we ensuring more independence in energy supply with the re-launch plans? What is your further role as Secretary of State in the implementation of the Relance Plan? How will you monitor this further, including in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u5	It has indeed been a year since we officially submitted our National Plan for Recovery and Resilience to the committee. According to the information in the last half-yearly report, we have achieved 22 milestones and targets out of the 79 milestones and targets covered in the report. That's 28 percent. With 45 milestones, that's 57 %, we're on the schedule. For 15% of the milestones, which are 12 milestones, we are behind schedule. We will follow that closely. Secondly, another important point is that since 28 April 2022 any interested citizen or public representative can get a look at all projects, all milestones and progress in the various projects via the nextgenbelgium.be website. It was one of our promises, in particular to give full transparency to everyone about the various projects of the plan. Regarding the impact of the Ukrainian war, which has indeed led to a general increase in the prices of energy, other raw materials and building materials. 60% of our projects are infrastructure projects, with an additional demand for our construction sector. So the war will certainly have an impact. In fact, we are now working with the Länder and the European Commission to see whether we can or will submit appropriate plans in order to reflect two points. The first is higher prices in the construction sector and inflation. Secondly, as you know, we will receive a smaller envelope of about 20%, because Belgium's growth rates were better than initially expected. In March 2022, the Federal Government also decided to set up a complementary investment programme for the energy transition. This decision embraces EUR 1 billion for additional energy projects. So we have added additional investment projects to our plan. All these projects, i.e. projects financed by Europe, but also projects financed by own federal funds, have been followed in the same methodology. There are thus EUR 319 million in additional investments in projects, including charging infrastructure of EUR 7 million, offshore photovoltaic energy of EUR 11 million, strengthening the hydrogen network of EUR 300 million and offshore wind energy of EUR 1.2 million. As far as my agenda is concerned, my task as Secretary of State for Relance and Investment is mainly to ensure that all projects in the recovery and investment plan, in the broadest sense, are actually carried out in accordance with the planned procedure. Indeed, we have an ongoing dialogue with the various ministers in the federal government, but also with the Länder, to ensure that all projects financed by Europe and also the additional projects of the federal government are carried out. We are also actively working to strengthen the internal capacities of the federal government in the areas of investment project management, internal control and impact assessment. Various training courses will be organised in the coming months. The aim is to use the experience of the Recovery and Resilience Plan to start building a real expertise in public investment at federal level. Our work is much broader than the exact follow-up of European projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u6	Thank you for your answers. Of the 79 milestones, therefore, there seems to be quite a lot going on. Of course there are movements, one can only respond to the market, the war and so on. You are now looking at how to deal with these price increases with the Länder and Europe. I have one last question. Very many investments concern infrastructure works. There are price increases and there is a shortage of people. So I'm just a little hungry. How many percent of those milestones is that? After all, there are a lot of infrastructure. Will these take place? Are these being rolled out lately? Is there anything about labour mobility being done to man this relay? That is, after all, the greatest concern, especially when I hear that, in addition to the energy transition, you too are putting investment in infrastructure at the forefront to a large extent. There I remain a little hungry, that this has not yet been solved, and the problem of the price of land.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u7	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u8	It's not hard, there's a lot of people looking for work and there's a lot of vacancies. It's an open goal, you can score directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u9	Colleagues Loones and De Smet are not present. They didn't say anything. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55027491 by Mr Loones (H-5027492) Mr de Smet's 55027671C therefore lapses. Unfortunately, but that is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u10	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, they are economists, computer scientists, experts, scientists. 170 of them have, under the title "It is urgent to separate the right grain from the tare in the crypto-active market", published in the daily L'Echo, dated February 10th, a forum whose aim is to warn about the risks associated with the anarchic development of crypto-actives. The current 16,000 crypto-actives would represent a $2 trillion market. A recent French study also indicated that, among our neighbours, 8% of the population had already invested in this type of product. The authors believe that the authorities have so far failed to take the appropriate measure of the adverse consequences that this constant growth could generate. The finding is that some of these products pose problems in terms of security and consumer protection as they promote tax evasion, the financing of criminal activities and, within the scope of your powers, ransom demands and various forms of scams for users. Monero, Dash or Zcash are particularly pointed because it is impossible to track their operations. This is one of the reasons why, among the proposals, the ban on the use of exchange platforms which do not have the authorisation of the supervisory authority and the introduction of a mandatory visa for any crypto-active entering the market are among the reasons. Madam Secretary of State, have you read this rostrum? What is your analysis of its content, particularly with regard to the idea of a compulsory visa? Are any measures taken to prohibit platforms which do not have the approval of the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) or more?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Bonaventure, I have indeed taken note with interest of the forum to which you refer concerning the dangers associated with the development of crypto-actives. This awareness of the risks posed by these crypto-actives is, moreover, perfectly in line with the attitude taken by the supervisory authorities, both national and European and international, which regularly publish on this subject and closely monitor developments in this field. This focus on risks justifies the many initiatives that have already been taken in this regard. FSMA receives and addresses many consumer questions about cryptocurrency by always recalling the risks associated with investing in cryptocurrency. In addition, FSMA regularly publishes warnings regarding fraudulent offers of crypto-assets or fraudulent actors in markets. In recent years, FSMA has also launched various social media campaigns to raise public awareness of investment fraud such as cryptocurrency fraud. Finally, in 2014, FSMA banned the marketing to retail customers of financial products whose return depends directly or indirectly on a virtual currency. More specifically, with regard to the issue of the idea of a compulsory visa, a number of elements need to be taken into account in this regard. The great diversity of crypto-actives of sometimes very different nature makes it difficult to apply a generalised visa principle. Nor should we lose sight of the risk of legitimising products which are only marginally related to financial products. They are very often speculative products that are more like betting or gambling products for which it does not seem appropriate to apply conventional financial rules. It may also be noted that France has put in place an optional visa which has not been very successful. In Belgium, the choice has been made to adopt fairly strict measures with regard to certain categories of crypto-actives which will have an impact on their marketing. Belgium has thus chosen to prohibit natural or legal persons governed by the law of a third country from offering or providing in Belgian territory, as a usual business activity even complementary or ancillary, exchange services between virtual currencies and legal currencies or preservation portfolio services. Furthermore, providers of such services must register with the FSMA, even if they are established in another European Member State, as soon as they have a permanent establishment in Belgium. In addition, the government will shortly propose to extend to virtual currencies the scope of the legal basis already giving FSMA the possibility to adopt regulations on the marketing of financial products or certain categories of financial products to retail customers. The practical effect of this proposal will be to enable the FSMA to adopt regulations which restrict marketing or certain forms of marketing, to retail customers, to virtual currencies or to certain categories of currencies. At European level, the aim of the draft European regulation MiCA will also be to regulate, inter alia, the issuance and marketing of certain major categories of crypto-actives. With regard to your last question, a new Royal Order, which entered into force on 1 May 2022, imposes an obligation on providers of exchange services between virtual currencies and legal currencies or preservation portfolio services to register with the FSMA. This obligation to register will be punished both criminally and administratively. Adopted pursuant to recent amendments to the Law on Combating Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, this Royal Decree requires compliance with that law, and therefore with the obligation to identify and verify the identity of clients, with the verification of the origin of the funds, when the situation makes it necessary and when detecting atypical transactions. Furthermore, as mentioned in the previous question, the Act on the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as amended, prohibits, under penalty of both criminal and administrative sanctions, third-country providers outside the European Economic Area from offering such services in Belgium. Finally, the proposed MiCA Regulations will eventually also impose licensing requirements for certain crypto-active service providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this answer a little too long, but it is no big deal this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, for obvious reasons, I have focused here on the questions raised by this development in the field of consumer protection. Thank you for your very comprehensive answers. The challenges naturally go far beyond and question the fullness of our economic and financial system to such an extent that the FSB (the Financial Stability Council) has been able to describe the registered boom as a "threat to global financial stability" because of its magnitude, the structural vulnerability of its products and their increasing interconnection with the traditional financial system. We must therefore keep an eye on this development, especially where it has its first effects, i.e. consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u15	The amended tariffs for imports of goods of a value not exceeding EUR 22 entered into force on 1 July 2021. The official statistics of the FPS Economy on e-commerce for the year 2021 cannot yet provide any insight into this change. Indeed, the surveys were conducted from January 2021 to June 2021, just before the new legislation came into force. The 2022 e-commerce surveys are still ongoing and the results will be available in October. These will most likely reflect a change in consumer behaviour in Belgium. For a possible analysis based on the VAT data, please refer to my colleague, Vincent Van Peteghem, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u16	Madam Secretary of State, I understand that there is an ongoing investigation and that the results will be available in October. We'll definitely check it out. A negative impact was found in the Netherlands. We will monitor the situation closely and then determine the outcome in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u17	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u18	Mr President, every year reports of misleading and/or ambiguous price indications in supermarkets. The problem of scanning is therefore known and monitored both on the basis of reports and through proactive studies by scanning the products on the shelves and comparing their price with what is charged to the cash register. The FPS Economy hotline has received 124 notifications over the past five years concerning ambiguous and misleading price indications in supermarkets. This gives 39 notifications per year in 2021, 15 in 2020, 13 in 2019, 15 in 2018 and 42 in 2017. Any notification containing sufficient evidence of problematic price indication shall be examined. In addition, the Economic Inspectorate has for some time been carrying out an annual general survey of basic legislation, including the examination of price indication in a large number of companies in specific sectors. It can be noted that the number of price differences determined at the cash register in favour of the customer is almost as high as the number of price differences to the detriment of the customer. This year, too, basic legislation in general research is devoted to the problem of scanning for a number of traders. Depending on the results of this study, I will of course, together with the Economic Inspectorate, examine the extent to which further studies should be planned in the next annual action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u19	I've noted 124 reports of wrong pricing over the past five years. You say that there are about as many in favour of the consumer as there are against the consumer. It could be said that they cancel each other out, but one will only be the consumer whose disadvantage is the difference. We certainly need to be careful about that. The cart has already become much more expensive due to inflation and the problems with the supply of certain products. Due to the digital cash-satickets that many stores already use.. which in itself is a positive evolution.. people check their tickets less often. I also hear that further research will be carried out. We follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u20	Mrs Van Bossuyt, as regards your question about the Ryanair flight from Rijeka to Charleroi, which would have been cancelled due to extreme weather conditions, my administration does not have the details of this particular flight, as the problem outlined concerns the application of the European Passenger Rights Regulation. I refer to my colleague Georges Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility. Without going into the content of this dossier, I can say that it is not the air carrier but the air traffic control that determines whether or not a passenger flight is allowed to take off or land, given the weather conditions. Whether or not a cancellation due to such weather conditions can be considered force majeure will depend in particular on the time when the airline knew or should have known that the flight could not continue as foreseen. As regards your question and that of Mrs Vindevoghel on the Ryanair flights cancelled as a result of the cabin crew strike, I can tell you that my administration does not have information on the number of passengers who could not fly as a result of the strike. To date, the Economic Inspection received notifications through its reporting point 165 regarding the cancelled flights due to the strike at Ryanair. In fact, if Ryanair sold tickets for flights that were established to be no longer able to continue, it would be a misleading commercial practice. In view of the fact that the strike was announced, which could possibly still be avoided, it cannot, of course, be said with certainty that there was in all cases a misleading commercial practice. Further research should prove that. I therefore recommend that all affected travellers report their experiences to the reporting point of the Economic Inspectorate so that they can be examined. If Ryanair were to knowingly complicate the exercise of a legal or contractual right, there would be an unfair commercial practice for which the Code provides for penal sanctions. As you know, I have asked the Economic Inspectorate to investigate this and forward their findings to colleagues in Ireland. The Economic Inspectorate itself cannot act against companies established in another Member State of the European Union in the event of an infringement of European law. The Economic Inspectorate confirms to me that in the meantime it has sent a request for enforcement to the Irish consumer authority within the European Consumer Protection Cooperation Network. The Irish authorities have accepted this request. So I'm waiting for the results. In view of the ongoing investigation by the enforcement authority, it is not appropriate that I should contact the air carrier concerned directly. In addition to the Economic Inspection, the FPS Mobility also receives consumer complaints about the aviation sector as a competent authority under the European Passenger Rights Regulation. This concerns the competence of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, with regard to my first question about the flight to Croatia, the problem was that other flights did leave at that time and that the one Ryanair flight could not, so to speak, leave because of the weather conditions. So that is a special situation. I can imagine that this is vengeful for an aircraft passenger, especially if it is not possible to call upon the rights to which they are actually entitled afterwards, because the airline is hiding behind the bad weather. That certainly needs to be further investigated. On the weekend from 22 to 24 April flights were cancelled due to an announced strike. It is a good thing that you have called on consumers to assert their rights, because many people are still unaware of their rights. You are talking about 165 notifications for the cancelled flights. That is a very high number, because not everyone mentions it. If flights were sold even though they knew they could not continue, that would be a misleading commercial practice, as you rightly say. If, for those flights that could not continue, consumers could not rely on legal rights, such as compensation, then that would indeed be an unfair commercial practice. I understand that the necessary steps have been taken in the meantime, including by contacting the ECC of Ireland. The ECC is doing a very good job. We will have to wait for the result. In the light of the current investigation, you have not yet contacted yourself, but I hope that you will contact your colleague directly in Ireland if it appears that Ryanair continues to stubbornly refuse to comply with these obligations. What I would have liked to know in addition is whether you have any idea of the timing. I can understand that it is not always clear to consumers themselves. I can also understand that you cannot put a date on it, but I would have liked to have known roughly when they might have a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u22	Usually such an investigation takes a few months, but I'm going to be behind it, of course, as far as I can. Of course, I will contact my colleague. I hope to have results before the summer. I don't have any influence on that, but I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u23	Fine. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u24	Mrs. Dierick is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u25	I refer to the written version of my question. For the average follower of a content creator, it is not always easy to find out whether a message is preaching its own opinion or whether the message is inspired by a commercial collaboration. The distinction must always be clear, otherwise it is a question of deception. If the influencer receives an advantage, the post can be regarded as advertising and must be clearly marked. An influencer who regularly advertises can be considered as a company and must register with the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises and display some data of that registration (company number and (e-mail) address) on the social media pages and websites. 1.How often does an influencer have to advertise to be considered a company? 2.How will these rules be monitored? The Jury voor Ethische Praktijken on advertising (JEP) does not investigate on its own initiative, but only at the request of associations or after a complaint. 3.The mere 'tagging' of a message would suffice as an indication that it is advertising. This is just a modest warning. Isn't a screen-sized announcement, prior to the message, clearer, certainly for the protection of children?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u26	Mr Gilissen, according to the application of Book VI. Market practices and consumer protection of the Economic Law Code are considered to be enterprises as soon as an economic objective is pursued in a sustainable way, or if there is a sustainable economic activity. This should be considered on a case-by-case basis. No figure can be attached to this in advance. These rules shall be checked by the Economic Inspectorate. It acts both on the basis of complaints and on its own initiative. All files on influencer marketing have so far been opened on their own initiative. The JEP is the self-discipline body of the advertising sector and therefore not a public authority, nor an enforcement authority. The best practices recently published by the FPS Economy clarify how an advertising message on social media should be made known, namely by using an unambiguous word that is recognizable to everyone, such as 'advertising', 'advertising' or 'publicity'. This entry must be placed at the beginning of the message or in front of the photo or video, so that it is immediately visible to the followers of the influencer. It should also be ensured that the entry stands out in terms of font color, font and font size so that it does not disappear in the background and the same language as in the message should be used. If an influencer mainly has children or young people as followers, which is clearly a particularly vulnerable target group, then the indication will have to be even clearer. The prohibition of unfair commercial practices explicitly stipulates that the target group to be targeted must be taken into account for the assessment of a particular commercial practice. In particular, advertising should be assessed from the point of view of the average member of the group to which advertising is addressed, taking into account the age or gullibility which makes it particularly susceptible to commercial practice and, where appropriate, the underlying products. I now answer Mrs Dierick's question. The Economic Inspectorate has already drawn up several minutes for influencers who did not express the commercial nature of their messages. The Economic Inspectorate has also already drawn up several minutes for influencers who used statements that were not considered sufficiently clear to convey the commercial character of their message, such as 'hashtag partner', 'hashtag @' or 'hashtag collab'. The best practices regarding influencer marketing are only available in Dutch and French. In het Frans wordt dat due Claim, Advertising, Sponsored ad. The best practices apply only if the influencer receives an advantage from the brand or the company in exchange for the advertisement. If the influencer has bought the product itself, the best practices do not apply. Any company advertising a service or a product on social media in exchange for an advantage, a free product, a discount, a payment in cash must make clear the commercial character of this message. This also applies to public personalities. The best practices were shared both by myself and by the FPS Economy through our own website, social media channels and press releases. The best practices were also picked up by the press. In my policy paper, there is specific focus on influencer marketing. Given that influencers have a major impact on young people's decisions on social media, the main focus is on raising consumer awareness so that they know when there is a commercial message. This topic is mentioned in my school tour, where I teach students between 16 and 18 years of age every month, to make them aware of online purchases as young consumers and everything that comes with them. This target group is heavily involved in social media and shop online on platforms and at web stores recommended by influencers. If the influencers themselves have questions about the best practices of the FPS Economy, they can contact the contact centre of the FPS Economy which will forward their demand for the right service. The Economic Inspectorate has been carrying out proactive checks for over a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, you say that it should be considered on a case-by-case basis whether an influencer should be regarded as an enterprise. In my view, some sort of framework should be set up to provide some legal certainty so that those influencers also know where they stand. We agree on advertising for vulnerable groups and children: they need extra protection. That is where the clear and unambiguous message must be given that it is about advertising. Children watching YouTube movies are not aware of that at all. Besides the influencers, there are also the reviewers, who temporarily get a product available. How will that be dealt with? I understand that you have taken a number of initiatives and will submit them to the committee. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u28	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u29	Mrs Van Bossuyt, given the short term, my services do not have all the data requested. I should therefore confine myself to the data that my services could collect immediately. Of the 72 loan applications, 68 were finally granted for a total amount of EUR 18,947.420. Between the granting of the loan and the payment of the loan, an organizer went bankrupt, resulting in a loan amount of 2.5 million not being paid out. This can be deducted from the amount allocated. After receiving the loan amount, all the organisers concerned had to repay their corona vouchers and had to be able to submit a statement to the FPS Economy, with proof of payment to the travellers. Following an initial check, they were delivered to either the general administration of the Federal Government Treasury's treasury, which sets the annual deadlines due by each organizer, or, when observing anomalies, to the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy for further investigation, so that we could be sure that all legal obligations of the coronavoucher loan legislation were complied with. I can tell you that not all organisers who have applied for a coronavoucher loan have used up the amount received. Some eventually did not need the full amount received and returned some. In total 3,139,631 euros were returned to the State. This means that loans totalling EUR 13,358,600 are currently being paid out. There was no legal obligation for tour operators to communicate this to the government when the coronavouchers were issued. However, my administration conducted a survey of the number of coronavouchers in circulation to monitor the situation, both in February 2021 and in September 2021. As the repayment period is over, no new recent survey was organised. On reimbursement disputes, my administration has no exact figures, as travel organisations, as I said earlier, are not obliged to report the figures to the government. The Economic Inspectorate has only a look at reports on this matter which it receives through its reporting point. It asks consumers who have not received a refund to report it by this means. Furthermore, I can only say that two companies that were granted and paid out a voucher have since been declared bankrupt. My records don't have any other exact figures. Travellers who have not yet been reimbursed can contact the insolvency insurer of the bankrupt company. Exact figures in this respect are not known to my administration, as they are only known to the curators and the insolvency insurers themselves. The Economic Inspectorate did not receive any specific reports on this, except in some cases where there is discussion about the exact responsible organiser of the package journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I do not need to remind you that the whole file has had many feet in the earth. After a lot of trekking and dragging and after a lot of legal detours here in Parliament, a solution finally emerged. An amount of EUR 130 million was foreseen for loans that could be contracted with the public authorities. I understand from your reply that 10% of this was used by the travel companies. It could be concluded that the travel companies did not need that amount, but nothing is less true of course. Because the government was so late, many companies had already paid everything back to consumers using private funds, because they have fulfilled their obligations more quickly than necessary. I think the figures are the best proof of that. We have always warned that these companies would be in trouble. In the meantime, two companies are indeed bankrupt. As a result, consumers who owed a voucher to those companies have not yet seen their money back. Madam Secretary of State, I believe that there is a very great responsibility for the government because of its delays. The answer you have just given me is the best proof of that, unfortunately, because it has been the greatest victim of both travel companies and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u31	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, this question is somewhat in line with the previous one, since it is claimed that the insurance of the insurer of the companies can be used. This question deals with problems in that connection. I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u32	Mrs Van Bossuyt, there are currently 1,002 travel companies insured, according to the lists of insolvency insurers. However, my administration has no figures of the number of organisations that could not re-insure, as it is a private insurance policy. 76 policies were terminated on 31 December 2021, but also some before and some after that date, as not all policies have an agreed maturity from January to December. However, this does not mean that all those travel companies could not renew their insurance contract. It also concerns liquidations, bankruptcies, companies which exchanged between insurers or companies which received a provisional extension pending an additional capital increase and/or bank guarantee. As far as the draft law on a reformed insolvency insurance system is concerned, agreement was reached within the government on the new principles. As the State will play a role in the new insolvency insurance system, the draft law currently follows the standard notification procedure for State aid to the European Commission. Since the outcome of that procedure may lead to changes in the draft law, it is not possible to communicate its concrete content at this stage. As soon as the notification procedure is completed, the draft law for an opinion will be submitted to the Council of State, after which it will be submitted to Parliament for discussion within the shortest time. The evaluation of the Package Travel Directive by the European Commission is still under way. A public consultation took place until 10 May 2022, in which stakeholders, public authorities and academia could participate. The services of the FPS Economy have provided the necessary input. Following the processing of all the data collected by the European Commission, this should result in a proposal to amend the Package Travel Directive on the basis of which Member States will hold talks. As you know, I will continue to follow that file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, I have not heard any specific figures, but I understand that you simply do not have them. I think it is very important for companies to have the necessary insurance. I've heard cowboy stories about that: it turns out to be wet finger work who gets such insolvency insurance or not. There are no clear criteria for this. That is a pity, because this is a prerequisite for many companies to be able to carry out their activities on the basis of European law. I understand that the dossier is currently before the European Commission for notification to see whether or not it concerns unlawful state aid. We have to wait for this result, just as we have to wait for the revision of the package travel directive, for which the consultation round has ended since yesterday. Like you, we will follow that closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u34	Ms Van Bossuyt, a feasibility study is currently being carried out on the implementation of a unique digital consumer platform. In particular, this mandate covers three points. Firstly, there are the functionalities that need to be provided for the platform and what regulatory initiatives may be needed. The second point is the interoperability and possible substitutability of existing systems among the different partners. Thirdly, there is the development of the functional and technical specifications relating to the development and implementation of the new platform. Based on the results of this feasibility study to be completed in mid-June, a subsequent public procurement will develop and implement the unique digital consumer platform in the course of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, the unique consumer point of contact is certainly a good thing. Many consumers often no longer see the trees through the forest. It's certainly a good initiative you're taking. The feasibility study is ongoing. It will be completed in mid-June. I look forward to seeing the results of that. A good year after that, i.e. in 2023, the unique consumer point of contact should be operational. We are looking forward to that. Hopefully the necessary communication will also be provided so that consumers are aware of its existence. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u36	Mrs Verhelst, the Economic Inspectorate has so far not registered any reports regarding the advertising spot in question. Misleading advertising is a form of unfair commercial practices. In order for advertising to be considered misleading, it is necessary first of all to contain incorrect information, or even if the information is factually correct that it can deceive the average consumer in any way with regard to one of the elements contained in the law. The price, the way in which the price is calculated or the existence of a specific price advantage are part of these elements. Moreover, the law requires that the advertising in question induces or may induce the average consumer to take a decision on a transaction that he would not otherwise have taken. Misleading advertising is prohibited and punishable under the Code of Economic Law. Depending on the specific qualification, this may be a level 2 or 3 penalty. The advertising spot in question does indeed appear to mention certain information which is factually questionable. Whether the advertising spot is also effectively misleading should be examined on a case-by-case basis, depending on its impact on the average consumer's purchasing decision, i.e. the reasonably informed, careful and attentive consumer, taking into account the general presentation of the advertising spot. Consumers who consider that they have been misled by the advertising spot in question should submit a notification to the reporting point of the Economic Inspectorate so that they can take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u37	So I understand that it is not classed as misleading when one speaks of a recession if it is not there yet. So it cannot be addressed, that is the conclusion. Yesterday I heard another commercial on the radio in which I also heard the word recession. This, of course, creates fear among consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u38	It concerns the link between what is mentioned in the notice and the influence of the purchasing behaviour. That is difficult to weigh in this particular case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u39	Perhaps we should take this into account in the future, because it is possible to influence consumers in the long term, leading, for example, to hamsters.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, as summer approached, Test-Achats analysed sixteen sunscreens: ten products with a sunscreen index of 50/50 and six products with an index of 30, lotions and sprays. It appears that three of the sixteen products do not respect the promised protection, either against ultraviolet B (responsible for sunburn), or against ultraviolet A (responsible for skin aging), or both. Among these three products are one of the Zwitsal brand specifically intended for babies and young children. This is obviously unacceptable, especially since the brand had already been pointed out last year for two products that are still on the market! Test-Achats alerted the Public Health FPS and urged to intervene quickly knowing that many consumers are now buying their sun protection. Madam Secretary of State, what about it? How is it that products incriminated by Test-Achats last year are still available identically on the market? Are there any penalties for the distribution marks of these products? Do you intend to take other measures, such as those specific to sunscreens? Have you had any contact with your colleague, the Minister of Health, on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u41	"Madam the Secretary of State, Test-Achat filed a complaint against five commercially available solar products... Of the 16 products tested by the association, three do not respect the promised protection against UVB rays. But what is most shocking is that the Zwitsal brand, which offers products specifically for babies and children, is pinned for the second year in a row... No action seems to have been taken against this company! What answer do you intend to give to this complaint Madam Secretary of State? Are you going to ask for the withdrawal of the sale of this product?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u42	Mr Vicar and Mr D'Amico, the rules on consumer protection, as laid down in the Code of Economic Law and for which I am competent, are called lex generalis. This means that these rules apply only if there is no specific legislation to protect the consumer and that falls under the jurisdiction of another member of government. With regard to solar products, special legislation already exists, i.e. the European Regulation 1223 of 2009 on cosmetic products. This Regulation lays down detailed rules on the information to be provided to the consumer, the justification of product claims and market surveillance. Pursuant to Article 20 of that Regulation, producers are prohibited from assigning to such products characteristics or functions which they do not possess. The Regulation also provides for a procedure to prohibit or restrict the making available of the cosmetic product on the market or to withdraw it from the market or to appeal against non-compliance. The implementation of this regulation is the responsibility of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. My services are not allowed to intervene in this case. I therefore ask you to refer to the competent Minister, Mr Franck Vandenbroucke, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health. But as you asked, I'm certainly going to talk to him about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u43	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Indeed, I will also ask the Minister of Health, but we are dealing with cosmetic legislation. Last year, the problem was already reported. What are the responses of the brand that was pointed out last year? If tests are carried out, I really think that we must insist, at European level, that the results and studies on these cosmetic and pharmaceutical tests be public. I would like to stress that when a product is placed on the market, the consumer must have access to the discussions of the specialists. For the time being, these files are secret for commercial reasons. Brands say they do not want to publish discussions between specialists because they reveal trade secrets. The reality is that we are witnessing a loss of consumer confidence in, for example, medical products. I'm thinking about the antivax. Let us also mention what is meant to replace sugar in so-called "calorie-free" drinks. It is therefore necessary to insist at European level that all these discussions become public and that the consumer, through specialised bodies such as Test-Achats, can consider these products to be seriously designed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. What displeases me is that we could have acted proactively, because the brand Zwitsal is not in its test run. Last year, she had already lied about the protection index. Let's not forget that this product is used to protect our children! Many moms use it – and dads also, of course; there is no reason. I therefore regret that Mr Vandenbroucke did not act proactively, because this is the second year that this is happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u45	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the law firm of the Jurists has conducted an audit of almost all online shops and the observation is quite surprising: none of them or almost all of them fully respect their legal duties. For example, 11% of sites do not distribute the general terms and conditions of sale. Of 49%, the cookie statement does not even exist. And 97% of online shops do not require the user to allow cookies, considering that the only visit to the website is an intrinsic acceptance, which is obviously an illegal practice because these cookies allow the websites to change the behaviour of the consumer who must have been informed beforehand. Finally, this is probably the most challenging observation of the audit: for 23% of sites, the link to the right to revoke online does not exist. However, this right of revocation is essential because it allows the consumer to exercise his right to a legal reflection period of 14 days. Madam Secretary of State, my question is simple. In the face of these rather intractable shortcomings that do not affect a minority of online sites but their almost majority, how can we enforce the legal obligations that ensure consumer protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u46	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the Economic Inspectorate carries out permanent checks on online sales websites. In 2021, it carried out nearly 6,050 checks on purchases made at e-commerce sites. No fewer than 2,683 warnings and 273 minutes were issued as a result of these checks. These checks shall be carried out on the basis of alerts received through the contact point, but the Economic Inspectorate shall also regularly organise checks on its own initiative. While it is true that the number of online selling websites in violation is significant, it should be relativized. Indeed, the Economic Inspectorate has noted that the offences found are often due to a lack of knowledge of the legislation rather than to a genuine dishonest intention. In addition, there are a large number of obligations related to distance selling, mainly pre-contractual information obligations. This is why the Economic Inspectorate systematically invites companies that sell online to consult the website infoshopping.be. This didactic site, set up by the SPF Économie, aims in particular to introduce companies, in a fun and user-friendly way, to the rules applicable to electronic commerce in Belgium. Companies can find explanations about all stages of online sales, as well as their rights and obligations. A great deal of information is also available on the SPF Economie website. Needless to say, my services will continue to follow this subject with all due attention. With regard to the shortcomings of these websites with regard to cookies, I would like to refer you to my colleague, Mathieu Michel, Secretary of State for Digitalisation in charge of Administrative Simplification, Privacy Protection, the Régie des Bâtiments and Federal Cultural Institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I understand that cookies fall within the competence of Mr Michel. Having said that, I understand that the Economic Inspectorate is carrying out a lot of checks, as we are talking about more than 6,000 checks last year, more than 2,000 reports, 273 minutes. That's obviously very good. The purpose of my question was not to question the important work done by the Economic Inspectorate. However, to say that many offences could be avoided by a better knowledge is a bit challenging. You recalled that there was the website infoshopping.be, that a whole series of information was also available on the SPF Economy website. But maybe there's something to dig. Indeed, if one or the other legal duty is not met, it must be noted that some are relatively intriguing. I am thinking in particular of online revocation, which is not possible. Therefore, consideration may need to be given to re-launching an information campaign with these online shops so that they can comply with the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u48	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, fuels have reached record new prices: this is the announcement of the SPF Economy at the beginning of the week. Five cents more, bringing gasoline prices from EUR 1.95 to EUR 2 per litre. It's never before seen! This, moreover, exceeds the price level of the month of March which prompted your government to act with several months late and with an effect now far exceeded. An assessment is to be made next month, but there is an urgent need for prompt action for workers. I am thinking in particular of those services which pay more and more to go to work, without a re-evaluation of the kilometric allowance. In this context, Madam Secretary of State, what will you plead with your colleague Minister of Finance to protect consumers' incomes when they go to the pump?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u49	Mr D'Amico, in response to the increase in energy prices, the government has taken a number of measures. One was to limit the increase in the price of fuel at the pump. In recent weeks, a reduction in excise duties has been applied to limit the impact of rising fuel prices on the international market. This measure will remain in force until September as a decline to a certain level of fuel prices on the international market. Further measures will need to be discussed within the government. As far as the reassessment of the kilometric allowance is concerned, I refer you to my colleagues in charge of this matter, that is to say, the Ministers of Finance and the Public Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I hear what you're telling me, but I thought you were going to add other measures. Indeed, the price has reached levels never seen and I expected that there would be new benefits for consumers. In addition, you are telling me about the new measures that could be taken in June, if I understood correctly. In the meantime, it is every day that workers are filling up, and it is today that they need measures. We're gonna wait until June, but they already have the rope on their necks today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic785x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 55026178C by Mrs Reuter lapses.
