ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u1	Special thanks today to all the Members present in the Chamber for listening to a number of questions and undoubtedly also to the Minister's answers. It is a pity that you cannot speak yourself, because there is no topical debate planned. But don't let that spoil the fun. I have a series of bundled questions that, as announced, are all about the dialogue platform. The first series deals with a number of practical questions. The first question concerns public procurement. Yesterday we saw a communication from you about the appointment of an additional external partner. This would cost another half a million, bringing the total cost of organising the dialogue platform to EUR 2.1 million. The dialogue platform is therefore much wider than the online survey: it requires a whole range of public procurement to be approved and decided. In the past, we have asked questions about this. That didn't seem to go too well. At some point a signature was missing and procedures had to be restarted and so on. A first set of questions is therefore precisely about this. What is the status of public procurement? In the meantime, have they all been awarded? To which partners have they been awarded? Are there any other assignments that are open and where external partners are still being sought to participate? Does that run smoothly, in other words? My second set of questions is linked to this and is specifically about the timing of the dialogue platform and whether everything will be done in time. We have also discussed this a number of times, because the timing has shifted somewhat. Initially it was announced to start in September last year, but that was postponed to consecutive November, December and spring. Now I read in your communication yesterday about the cost, that we are looking at the spring, from which I understand that everything has to be completed before the summer. That's an assumption, it's not entirely clear. In the meantime, is there any clarity as to the exact date on which the dialogue platform will be launched? Is it still the intention to complete that online search of the online part of the dialogue platform "S' at six weeks, as has been pointed out a number of times? It would be interesting to see that confirmed again, because we can make the back timing, assuming that everything has to be done before the summer. The third series of questions is about who exactly is allowed to participate in that online survey. We have not really had a debate on this here in the Chamber. Some notes have been published, including your first note to the Council of Ministers, which states that anyone who is at least 16 years of age and lives in Belgium or has Belgian nationality should be able to participate. That was stated in that memo of 30 April 2021, but we have not been interpelling about it since then. Hence the question of whether it is still the intention to effectively involve young people under the age of 18. And above all, with what participation condition: nationality or residence? The chosen platform My Opinion of the FOD BOSA works with an authentication method via the eID card, for people of Belgian nationality. But your assignment also mentions people of foreign origin, who could thus participate with a residence card. I don't know if that's possible with that platform My Opinion. The technical information on that website only mentions the use of the eID card, not the alien card. There is an electronic version of the alien card. Can it be used in the same way to access that platform, or is it not technically possible and should the platform be adapted for that purpose? I also have a more legal question. The right to vote for people with a migration background in municipal elections requires a certain sustainability of the right of residence. We must have a residence status for a number of years before we can participate. Is that what you're trying to identify? Can anyone who received a residence card yesterday participate in that online search immediately tomorrow, or do you think that people should have the right of residence for at least a few months or years before they can participate? I have also tabled a series of questions on the exact questions that will be asked. We've talked about it a few times, but I'm still a little hungry. It has been announced that the expert committee will examine exactly what questions will be drawn up, and which questions will be included in those five clusters, but is it now clear which questions will become? Do you have that questionnaire yourself? Do you know what questions it's going to be? Is Parliament allowed to know that? Preferably before the online platform starts, so that we can also discuss this. As you know, for the credibility of a poll, the real value of the questions asked is an important point. There is a whole technicality about the way questions are formulated, so that they sound as neutral as possible. It would be interesting to be able to look into this, as well as the issues that are being discussed. Do you have the questionnaire yet? Can we have that, too? I have another question that has less to do with the dialogue platform but which is still linked to it. This is the specific issue of lowering the voting age for the European elections. We discussed this last week in the Constitutional Commission. The majority have tabled a draft law to enable young people from 16 years of age to vote for the European elections. Last week it became clear that the majority wanted to see it dealt with as a matter of urgency. I asked the question whether it would not be more logical to ask people's opinion on this first. This can be done perfectly via an online platform. It was then answered that this question would not be part of the online survey, but would be asked via a parallel circuit. I regret that because it somewhat undermines the credibility of the dialogue platform. It seems like a typical question about which it would be interesting to ask everyone's opinion. I also saw that this was communicated, including through your own tweets, following the European democracy summit of American President Biden. You said that democracy needed to be strengthened and explicitly referred to the issue of voting age in European elections. It was also spread in the media that one of those five online themes would be about strengthening democracy and explicit mention was made of voting rights at 16 years. This is more about the draft law than about the dialogue platform, but the question remains the same. Do you think that this draft law should be dealt with as a matter of priority or as a matter of urgency before a broad survey is organised? Or do you think that the dialogue platform should be taken seriously and that the question should also be asked about the age condition, in order to proceed subsequently on the basis of the data obtained and whether or not to change the law? In my view, the next question is less about the dialogue platform, but above all about the Green Group's proposal to draw up an introductory report. I have become a fan of this technique and I thank Mr Calvo for pointing out the possibility in the Rules of Procedure to use it. In the meantime, I know Article 152a more than by heart. The proposal from the Chamber to examine exactly how government formation is going, how long it takes, whether it can be easier and how we can change a number of things in the process seems to me to be a very interesting exercise, but it seems to me to be potentially also an exercise that could be addressed in your online citizen survey. Do you agree? Will questions be asked about this too? Does it seem interesting to you that Parliament is adjusting its rhythm and waiting for that question to be completed so that it can continue to work with that knowledge? Of course, it is not for you to set Parliament's agenda, but it would be interesting to have your views on this matter. A final set of questions concerns the credibility of the exercise. I will continue to ask, because I think it is important to do so, even though I know the answer. I continue to ask you to invite the experts of the Scientific Committee in this Chamber and to exchange views with them. That was promised at first, but then refused because they have no spokesperson, no chairman. It was said that we should ask you our questions. We have no problem with that and we have retabled the questions. I think it would improve the credibility of the exercise if there were a little more transparency about who exactly guides, how that happens and what processes are behind it. That is why I am trying to ask for transparency from a different angle today. I assume that the Scientific Committee has already met several times. Can we get the reports from those meetings? Can they be delivered to Parliament so that we can see exactly what has been discussed there, when that has happened, what subjects have already been dealt with and what is still open? Finally, I understand that you will also call on that Scientific Committee to summarise, analyse and draw conclusions from the replies. Is there also an even more external authentication looked at there? We all know the bailiffs at the lottery. There are people, such as verifiers and auditors, who specialise in the supervision of such processes. Can the slope be considered if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u2	Questions Nos. 55023981C and 55023982C by Ms. Pas were deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish you all the best for the new year. Thank you for your questions and your interest in the online platform project. I'll answer some of your questions. My colleague Annelies Verlinden will complete my remarks. First of all, let me respond to the organisational and technical aspects of the online platform. Two public contracts were awarded on 24 December. This is the 11/46 market which relates to the definition of the questions and draftings of the report entitled "Support in the content, process, methodology, definition of questions and writing of the report for the online platform". Benefits began on January 10. The second public procurement concerns Mission 11/45: communication campaign, the services of which began on 6 January this year. The launch meetings were then held for both markets. Finally, in accordance with the note of the Council of Ministers of 30 April 2021, the SPF BOSA still has to provide us with the specifications for the last semantic analysis contract. The total estimated cost at the time of award of the two public contracts is EUR 1 669 610.64 million, including VAT; EUR 611 942 for the first contract and EUR 1 057 668 million for the second. The estimated cost of the future 11/34 mission is EUR 500 000, including VAT. With regard to the current timing, the schedule presented at the last committee on 1 December 2021 remains valid. However, the precise timing may vary depending on the date of the 11/34 contract, which the SPF BOSA is in charge of, for both the writing and the publication of the notebook. The six-week time limit for online response remains unchanged at this stage. The conditions for participation were validated by the Council of Ministers on 30 April 2021. Therefore, all 16-year-olds, Belgian nationals and/or residents of Belgium will be invited to participate in the platform. No distinction is made at this stage with regard to residents in Belgium. Registration on the platform will be possible via CSAM with the eID system or itsme but also via an email address and a password. The Scientific Committee has already expressed its support for the system, which also has implications for how the results can be dealt with, how anonymity can be ensured and how access management can be managed. The discussion within the Scientific Committee on these points is important and will take into account the availability of instruments. Only one platform is then provided for all categories of respondents. Different types of questions will be asked, ranging from closed questions to the possibility of making free contributions on the topics discussed to allow participants to provide both short and longer answers. It will therefore be the same questionnaire for everyone. However, some questions will be more complex to allow those categories to share their expertise. I now come to the questions about the Scientific Committee. The Committee met for the eighth time, the last time on 15 December 2021. The next meeting would be held on 27 January 2022. The members of the Scientific Committee were consulted in particular on the process of democratic debate as a whole, on the tasks expected of service providers for M11.6 and for 36.11.35 but also on the themes and questions that may arise from them. The tasks related to the semantic analysis will have to be discussed in the Scientific Committee. As I have been able to repeat at the most recent committee meeting, a right of reservation is provided throughout the process, to facilitate their mission. Everyone brings in their professional expertise and the discussions make it possible to make progress on good practice for that type of citizen survey. In parallel, my colleague and I will continue to report to Parliament on the progress of the process. Article 3(2) of the Royal Decree establishing the Committee specifies that, at the end of the process, the Scientific Committee shall draw up a report on the regularity and authenticity of the process which it shall communicate to the Ministers of Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal. To answer Mr Loones' question about the need for additional experts, there is no reason to provide for another group to guarantee the process than that of the committee. In addition, I would like to remind him that the content of the platform (questions and contextualization) is the responsibility of academic experts, in order to ensure, on the one hand, quality and, on the other hand, the guarantee of impartiality in the drafting of this content. As for the question of who Parliament can invite or not, it is not up to me to comment. I will repeat that the members of the Scientific Committee have a duty of reserve throughout the process. On the communication aspects, as mentioned above, the communication contract was awarded on 24 December 2021 to Bridgeneers. His mission began on January 6. I cannot, therefore, give you any further details on the concrete actions that will be taken to encourage citizens to take part in this consultation. It is certain that it will be essential to make this participatory process known to as many people and to give them the desire to participate in it while positioning this exercise in the broader process of the dialogue platform (the online platform being the first sequence). As regards the promotion of the online platform, the communication service provider will play a central role: upstream, raising awareness and informing all citizens about this process of citizen participation so that they have the information they need to participate in it; mobilising citizens who, spontaneously, are less interested in political and public action in general. Encouraging them to participate will be a challenge. This provider will have to work on the design of a strategy to receive the widest possible support from citizens and civil society. Particular attention should also be paid to the digital divide, which remains an obstacle today. To do this, various communication channels will be used: messages and animation videos for publication via social networks; texts, images, infographics for the print media; radio and television spots. Finally, in terms of consultation and processing of contributions, communicating clearly the results of the participatory process will be another imperative. Several other questions have been asked on the topics and I propose that my colleague Annelies Verlinden provide an answer to the questions that will arise from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u4	Mr Loones, as Mr Clarinval pointed out, a number of parliamentary questions were asked about the issues and questions that will be asked on the online platform. I'm going to go into that a little bit more. As I said at a previous committee meeting, a provisional list of topics that could be addressed in this online survey was drawn up. One of them, as you pointed out, is the strengthening of democracy. The provisional list is rather long and choices will therefore have to be made. This is motivated by the desire to keep the number of themes limited and thus not to overload the platform and to keep citizens' appetites to participate as much as possible and to promote the low threshold. That does not prevent a whole variety of themes from being discussed, but if people want to keep the feeling that they can easily answer them, we should not overload it. As Mr Clarinval pointed out, the appointed experts will make a proposal for the themes. As has just been said, not all the themes on the first provisional list will be covered on that online platform. The formation of a federal government, the way in which it does so, the introduction of an official deadline or a specific or general deblocking mechanism could be addressed, as indicated in the government agreement. After all, it is our wish to avoid, in the future, that negotiations on the formation of the government are dragging on for a very long time or even leading to a standstill. Moreover, as you know, on 30 April last year the Council of Ministers adopted a provisional list of constitutional articles which could be declared subject to revision. This list includes the possibility to complete Articles 46 and 96, so that in future the Constitutionalist may be able to find a solution in certain cases to such long-standing forms of government. This is also relevant to that online platform. I would like to emphasise once again that it is not the intention to turn that online platform into an opinion poll, with only simple yes-no questions. This would, in our opinion and according to the experts we have heard during the discussions, lead too little to substantiated ideas for the future of our country. The purpose of this platform is therefore also to ask the participants for ideas, visions, recommendations on certain issues in order to contribute to the democratic debate in a more informed way. Although we really hope that as many people as possible will participate in it, and so we are committed to accessibility, which motivates, among other things, the communication budget, that platform does not necessarily have to be representative. We must bear in mind that certain groups will participate and others will not. It is not the case that simple answers to these questions will be regarded as the views of the Belgian people on the future of our country. There too, we know that we are learning from international examples too, that we must be careful with the answers, with sufficient force, but in the knowledge that we must look at them through those glasses. What is also not the intention of that online platform is to hold a vote on a kind of online voting agreement. That is why, for example, the government agreement states that the voting age should be reduced to 16 years before the European elections, and should not necessarily be questioned. The Council of Ministers agreed in principle to this reduction on 21 October last year. The majority groups have already tabled a legislative proposal on this subject which will be discussed further. Last week, if I am well informed, your committee decided to hold hearings on this matter. That element is therefore on track and therefore does not have to be an object of that online platform. You also referred in your question to some of the tweets about the Summit for Democracy organised in the United States, including some elements of our policy on democratic renewal such as that dialogue platform and voting rights. But those two are actually separate from each other. As I have just said, the preparatory parliamentary steps for voting rights from 16 years onwards have been taken. With the online platform, the government and the majority in this Parliament aim to get input, visions, ideas and recommendations for the future of our country, on issues for which the government agreement does not make choices and the outcome is open. Of course there are grey zones and sometimes interfaces, but it is not the intention to re-present choices made in the coalition agreement in the online survey. Consequently, I do not share your view that there would be a problem with the credibility of the dialogue platform. Putting decisions back into question on that platform would not be correct with regard to the government partners and the agreements we made in the government agreement, but also with regard to the citizens. After all, an agreement has already been reached. That is why I do not think it would be wise to create an idea of false participation, so that people do not believe in the questioning because they are convinced that the choice is actually already made in the coalition agreement, and so one cannot answer the online questioning because that will no longer make a difference. These are elements on which no political agreement has yet been reached, such as the state structure and democratic renewal. These can, of course, be included on the online platform in order to obtain as much input as possible. You asked very explicitly about the list of questions. That exact list hasn't been drawn up yet. The experts we have identified through the two public contracts awarded so far have started their work. Together with them, we will draw up this list on the basis of the provisional list I referred to earlier, but also on the basis of their expertise. The aim is to ensure that that time of questioning goes as well as possible and that we choose topics that we can contextualize and on which basis we can get useful input. For example, some of the issues will require some background information that we need to give to the citizens who want to participate so that they can express their views in an informed manner. Of course, people are free to read or not to read this, but we do want to do it in this way to make the relevance of the answers we will get as much as possible. I have just said that we do not intend to ask yes-no questions, or some kind of referendum question or question that merely gives rise to statistics. We also do not want to get rid of the number of people who have replied "yes," "I don't know," "no opinion" or "no." If we give people the chance to make recommendations or suggestions, we hope that they will do so and we can get to work on that basis. Therefore, in order to make the results as representative as possible, we should not only allow a quantitative analysis, hence the need to be accompanied by experts who can tell us how to do this best. Therefore, there is also the need for the third public contract to be analysed. At best, we have a lot of answers and we need to ensure that we can bring them together in the right way in order to choose the ideas with which we can move forward. I think I put it correctly when I say that we are trying to obtain as much knowledge and ideas as possible from this online platform as we can in our society. This is then directly linked to the essence of participation. It initiates a social debate on political issues and the search for solutions. So, for those who ask why we are doing this if we have already had elections, I say that elections are a one-time thing and do not always mean that people can express themselves very nuancedly on different issues. That's exactly what we want to do with that questioning. I would also like to come back to the timing and the next steps. The experts involved in the various assignments, as well as the Scientific Committee, will work in stages. We're on. The intention is to submit the methodology to the relevant ministers at the end of January-early February 2022, but also to the Scientific Committee that we have set up. Then, within the framework of the methodology, the experts will be able to concentrate on the questions that can be asked and their contextualisation. As I said, I attach great importance to that myself. We have also gained inspiration in other countries where people do work with referenda and in a very comprehensive way inform citizens about the context but also about possible positions so that the questions can be answered properly. It is not intended to submit the detailed content of the platform to Parliament before its launch. After all, it is a typical task for the executive. Of course, we can hold debates in this committee if you have any suggestions on elements that we should take into account. In addition to the questions that are being asked, I imagine that today, on the basis of a scheme with a number of tiles, as one would call it, one can click on to go further in order to do so, the aim is also to allow citizens to make free contributions on themes or certain subjects, with the proposals to be taken into account in the analysis and preparation of the report in principle meeting three conditions. They must be formulated in one of the three national languages, which is of course relevant for processing. These should include responses submitted in accordance with the charter of the platform on moderation as well. One has to look at the platform in an adult way. It should be on one of the themes offered or discussed in the online platform, because we need to limit ourselves in the margins and time we have to move forward with this. As you know, the Scientific Committee is composed of experts from a wide variety of backgrounds. It has considered that contributions from citizens who would address issues outside the scope of the online platform will be identified as outside scope and will therefore not be analysed. I do not want to make it a secret: it is a complex exercise and a challenge to start a journey towards a more participatory democracy with this question. We must manage the expectations of everyone, of our colleagues, but also of the people, so that it remains manageable. It must not become a general question mark, and then nothing can happen. We intend to launch the platform in April for six weeks, as Mr Clarinval said. Then an analysis of the results will be made by the experts we will involve. Firstly, there may be some raw data that will be available after publication of the report. This must of course be done in a comprehensive way, so that a large group of people will have the opportunity to know what was answered on the basis of the raw data, which is important. Then we'll get to work. Once again, I would like to call on Parliament to continue working on it. There may be themes or ideas that can be implemented or discussed quite easily. Many more topics may require a more thorough debate. It would be a good thing for Parliament to have the opportunity to deal with this in a more participatory way. In any case, the results of that online platform will feed the political dialogue between political representatives and improve understanding between citizens and politics, at least that is our ambition, given that we have been able to express our opinion in a more nuanced and refined way. I conclude with something I have said on several occasions, but I repeat it because it reappears here and there. This online platform is not intended to replace the political debate here and replace political decision-making, but rather to enrich, refine and complement the decision-making process with ideas, suggestions and opinions of citizens on issues that, if it is right, will help shape the future of our country. That is our ambition. For me, the debate does not end with the online platform. That's a start. As you know, we chose this after consultation because we are still in corona times and it was very difficult to predict when we could bring together very large groups of people for a real interaction. If it goes well, then that is the start of a participatory process that hopefully has not only 2024 footprints, but also afterwards. These are important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. Mr Loones, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u6	Madam President, once again I am very pleased that I have tabled a whole series of questions, because I have learned a lot again. Both ministers set up a major project, complex to carry out. I remain convinced that an open debate on this in Parliament is a good thing for its credibility. Madam Minister, I take your call for Parliament's involvement to heart. In that respect, I will certainly continue to follow this closely and ask questions. I call on all my fellow Members to do the same so that we can speak here in greater numbers. My general feeling with your answers is that there is still a huge amount of work to be done. This large and complex project also requires a large budget of EUR 2 million and therefore a lot of work. I have heard Mr Clarinval say very often 'on devra, on devra, on devra, on devra'; we will still have to... [[Also with you, Madam Secretary, one could hear "it will be, it will be, it will be the intention to."]] While Mr Clarinval was somewhat vaguer about timing, you indicated, Madam Secretary, that you would start in April. It's good to hear that ambition out loud so we have a target date. All understanding if it shifts for a few weeks, but at least that way we know where we stand and in what direction it can be added so that Parliament can follow it. With regard specifically to public contracts, I understand that two have been awarded and one still needs to be awarded, for which you do not even have the specifications of FOD BOSA. I will certainly follow this up, because according to what I understood from Minister Clarinval........................................................................................................................................................................................... If I understand correctly, the third public contract concerns the semantic processing of the results. So that could shift in timing. Potentially, the exercise could start while that command is still running. Speak against me if I am wrong, but Minister Clarinval's replies seemed to indicate the steps that could not therefore be taken in parallel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u7	It's about processing the results. Of course, there will be interaction between the experts who prepare the content before the platform is launched and the communication will of course follow later. After all, this has to be dealt with. They will be involved. That assignment's already under way. It will only have to wait until the input is given to do the processing itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u8	I understand from that that the third public contract is not blocking. It's not a showstopper. It's not blocking to start the exercise. It is possible that for the third assignment, the semantic processing of the results... For example, imagine that you want to start on 15 April 2022, but the third assignment is not fully completed by 15 April 2022. That does not have to block the start of the dialogue and the online search. You can do that six weeks later, as long as it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u9	For the sake of clarity, in theory that is not allowed, but it would be good, if possible, to let the experts join in on the way in which the population is surveyed and input and the processing of the data. In theory, that can happen afterwards. However, I think it would be better to record this so that the processor can work with the results later. The substantive exercise and preparation for engagement and accessibility must, of course, be the first to start in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u10	That seems to me to be a logical answer. If one takes part in an exam one also likes to know in what way that will be assessed. So I understand from the answer that the third task is not radically blocking, even if there are some loose ends. You replied clearly to the question about timing. We just talked about it. As regards the conditions of participation, the answer for people with a migration background who have a residence card but do not have an identity card and who are therefore not nationals was less clear. I have noted that Minister Clarinval spoke about 'aucune discretion n'est fatale à ce stade', i.e. between people with right of residence. At present, a day's residence permit is enough to take part in a city. I understand that this discussion may not be fully resolved and that you will discuss it again. Madam Minister, you have said that we must not create expectations that we cannot meet. Therefore, it does not seem illogical to me to identify participation in the survey on the logic of participation in elections for people with a migration background and to apply the same criteria. I would consider a certain length of stay as a criterion, but you will then judge. I understand, however, that it is not intended to be a city and that everyone can participate. At one point, Mr Clarinval said that we should take into account the availability of instruments. That was not entirely clear to me, but I will read the report and then we can discuss it again in the future. Madam Secretary, you say that the complex project has been delayed due to corona. You said it was difficult to bring together very large groups of people. That seems to me to be somewhat at odds with the fact that it is an online survey. I suspect that you have projects to give greater attention to this and bring people together, perhaps invite or explain what the exercise entails. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u11	A large number of different pathways, forums or platforms can be devised with regard to participation as referred to in the coalition agreement. When we started in full corona time to make participation possible in this country and do it as well as possible, it was not easy to bring together large groups of people to discuss a theme, such as the G1000. That is why we started with that online platform where we can gather ideas, regardless of what corona measures there are. After that, we hope that civil society or local authorities, for example, have ideas about this. Youth associations can sit together about the future of our country. That would be part of the online platform. However, we could not bring five hundred people together in Flanders Expo to discuss a theme in groups. That's why we started like this. There is therefore no delay. It is rather a conceptual choice to start with this. I call on Parliament to make it possible to continue the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u12	That too is clear. You will not pull or impose this on yourself, but of course everyone, such as civil society organisations and Parliament, is free to take such initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u13	That's not out of the question. We're talking about the online platform. We hope, however, that certain debates will take place from the ground up. We will also facilitate and encourage this. We'll see what we do afterwards. We must, of course, first wait for the results of the platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u14	Well, that's less obvious to me. Facilitating and encouraging can be very much understood. How will that be set up? This can be done in two ways, namely with a large communication campaign to encourage people to go to their computers or when government itself brings people together with civil dialogues at specific locations, so there really are real triggers in that. Under facilitation, I understand that money will be given, or something else, to civil society organisations to do so. Is that the intention or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u15	We're launching that online platform. We will facilitate by means that local authorities, for example, can bring together groups of people to discuss a theme, so that they can subsequently fill out that platform. That's the idea. We will encourage this because we want to make accessibility as much as possible. The communication mission will determine how we can reach as many people as possible to contribute. How exactly we will do that and how it will be distributed is not yet clear. There has been no ruling on that. Understanding that money will be given to civil society is a number of steps too far. We want as many people as possible to participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u16	I did not say that you will, I said that facilitating, supporting and stimulating can be understood much. This will also be discussed in concrete terms. We will come back to that in the future. It is good that open questions will also be asked, it is not the intention to conduct an opinion poll. In the meantime, several experts suggest that it might be more interesting to do polls on a more permanent basis. It is easier to determine the representativeness of this exercise than this exercise. That is a debate you must have with them. I understand you've made your choice. A long questionnaire is circulating from which selections can still be made. Can we get that long list so we have at least an idea where this is going to go? You already have that list. It would be good for you to be able to support this exercise if you debate it transparently with Parliament before it starts. This concerns not only the implementation of the decision, but also the essence of the project, the questions, the support for a number of themes and a number of questions. If you put Parliament in charge of its responsibility to be involved in this exercise, it seems logical to me that this should be a two-way street. It would only strengthen the credibility of the exercise and its acceptance if you took that decision. You will have to forgive me that it will not be the last time I will ask you to deliver this questionnaire to Parliament before the exercise begins.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u17	Mr Loones, that questionnaire is not yet known.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u18	I'm gonna finish this part. You said at some point that suggestions could be made by Parliament on elements that could be taken into account. That is also a good methodology for me, because I can ask dozens of questions with suggestions on issues that can be taken into account. I just don't know if this is the most efficient way of working. If there is a proposal that can be exchanged, you will eventually do what you want, but it would not be uninteresting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u19	As for your question about the list, it was attached to the specifications. This is publicly available information and therefore there is no question of not wanting to disclose it. Of course, I will not stop you from thinking and certainly not from working efficiently. If you have any suggestions, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u20	Do I understand now that this questionnaire will be delivered to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u21	We did, I think, go over it at a previous committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u22	We have seen the order of the five themes, with some examples here and there. That is different from what you say, a long provisional list of questions and themes from which selections should come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u23	That's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u24	Then there's really a lot of work to be done before April. I thought you'd moved on. You say that the issue of government formation could be addressed, with the demand for solutions for long-term negotiations. We can say a lot about that, but that would rather be a political debate. So I won't do that. Then I come to the credibility of the exercise. I understand that the Scientific Committee met eight times. There was no discussion as to whether the reports of those meetings could be made available to Parliament. I think that is desirable. I don't think there's gonna be anything mysterious in it. From Mr Clarinval's answers, I would point out that you will not attract another external auditor and that the Scientific Committee will have to do everything. A second point is that you said at some point that the answers would be moderated. Those are words that raise questions for me. What's that moderation gonna do? How exactly is that going to happen? Who will do that and on what criteria? I think that this is also something that should be clarified before the exercise starts, so that it does not give the impression that certain opinions can be addressed rather than others. I know that you have undoubtedly not meant this, but it is important that such matters do not lead their own lives and that there can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u25	You know that in your communication about what we will do you can help to ensure that such matters do not begin to lead their own lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u26	I am not a minister who says in Parliament in response to a parliamentary question that the answers will be moderated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u27	You say you understand what we mean by that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u28	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u29	This is a standard system, as is the case with any platform or news site to which one can respond. There's nothing unknown about that. I note that you say that I did not mean to do so and that this should not begin to lead a life of my own. I just want to say that you can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u30	For me, that's not a known standard system. I don't know that. I don't know exactly how that works. That's not my field or expertise. I do not know exactly how moderation on news sites happens, but I do know that there are many stories about this and that this causes a lot of dissatisfaction. If you are referring to these matters, I think it is important to be transparent about what is meant by them, how they will happen and who will do so. I will put some additional questions so that we can talk about this when those public contracts are a little further. I will conclude with the issue of voting rights for young people from the age of 16 in the context of the European elections. I'm still very sorry about that. I understand your reasoning. You say that we should not create false expectations among the people and say that they have a say in it, because they do not have a say in it because it is already included in the coalition agreement. Don't you think that's a huge weakness? What is preventing the government from getting support for the decisions you want to make? Why do you assume that everything in the coalition agreement can no longer be called into question and should be declared sacred? If you do the exercise of the dialogue platform, do them seriously. Why should you be deterred from this, if you are convinced of your coalition agreement and what you stand for? Why, then, would you be afraid to put such questions to the people? I really don't understand. On the contrary, it could just strengthen the proposals you are launching as part of a major exercise, which will cost a lot to implement effectively. So why don't you do it? I can't stop thinking that's a weakness offer. I can't put it any other way. I mean that sincerely. Lowering voting rights to 16 years is not nuclear physics, it is typically a question on which people can express themselves without being skilled as a politician. One can simply express one's opinion and I am sorry that such questions are not forthcoming. On the contrary, I would encourage you to ask more such questions, which are not in the traditional institutional sphere, but which are intertwined with people's social lives. I sincerely hope that there are questions such as: do you think that the Länder themselves should be able to build nuclear power plants? Do you think that the states should be able to build prisons themselves? Do you think that the Länder themselves should be able to pursue a migration policy? In this way, institutional questions are made tangible for the people. Institutional policy is of course also about how many Members are present in Parliament, but also about so much more. For example, it is also about the health policy to be implemented. If you put it easily, you can give your opinion on it. I hope your government has the courage to do so. The institutional, social and socio-economic debate is one debate. The appearance is that everything is immediately resolved by looking at the role of the monarchy, it is not. I know, you're not getting hurt. That was a little bit out of hand. I continue to call for the social debate and the institutional challenges to be made very tangible. This can be done by not rejecting your coalition agreement as untouchable, but by presenting it for inspiration and perhaps even for validation. However, validation here is too strong a word. However, one can at least ask the opinion of the people. This will increase the seriousness and reliability of the exercise, and it can at least increase the seriousness and reliability of your government policy, which is perhaps also a concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic662x.u31	Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before closing this meeting, I would like to thank you for this extremely interesting question and answer session.
