ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u1	Over the last few days, it has been raining articles and reports on the problem of cross-border behaviour at universities. First there were reports of the VUB, where a professor of archaeology was fired. After that there were also reports from Ghent University and now we hear from Leuven. It doesn't stop. So let us assume that there are problems in all universities. The university is an environment with strong power relations and mutual competitions, which provides a good breeding ground for abuse of power. In order to prevent cross-border behaviour, universities need to launch and many do good preventive awareness campaigns. In addition, universities must also have the necessary services to act quickly on reports of cross-border behaviour, and to clarify victims. The articles that have been published recently show precisely these shortcomings. At the VUB, PhD students had already reported cross-border behavior ten years ago. More than 23 reports were made, and it's only now that we're fired. A victim at Ghent University filed a complaint in 2020 and still has no reply on the procedure today. So she has to wait two years before she finally knows what will happen to that complaint. A VUB victim said: "I find the fact that the VUB doesn't respond more hurtful than the cross-border behavior in itself." So people feel that they're not actually being helped. We must be very aware that it is already difficult for women to report? You can imagine what it would do to avoid being heard. Hence my question: will you work on a streamlined procedure for dealing with cross-border behaviour in higher education? Can it be rolled out all over the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, my initial question followed on from the coverage of the VUB, which had stopped working with a professor following complaints about cross-border behaviour. He would have approached several students sexually over several years. A total of 23 reports were made. In the coverage of this case there was a lot of criticism about the approach of the VUB. Like Mr Vindevoghel, I would like to emphasise that there is indeed a power relationship between a professor and students or PhD students. The VUB's hotline received many anonymous reports, but it was only when the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men (IGVM) contacted the university about the professor that an internal investigation was started. This revealed not only the complaints of 2020, but also many older testimonies about the same man, some of which go back a decade. The internal disciplinary investigation led to a settlement with the professor concerned. The academic coordinators for equality and well-being of the VUB had recognised in an opinion paper that VUB might have done more to act more quickly and vigorously against this cross-border behaviour. The students complained that they had to deal with a culture of silence, mainly serving the interests of the powerful professors. Therefore, action was only taken when an external body "the IGVM' bundled the complaints. I come to my second question. After submitting my first question, many other testimonies about cross-border behavior came up in universities such as Ghent University and the KU Leuven in the media. It always seems to be the same pattern. A student or a employee card to internal cross-border behaviour or abuse of power. The complaint is hardly being followed up. As a result, the victims have little confidence in internal procedures and in the policies of the institutions to act vigorously. Madam Secretary of State, do you have an idea of the extent of the problem? How can we get a better idea of this? Can you tell us more about the role played by the IGVM in this case? Have similar complaints been received by the IGVM as a result of this notification? If so, how many complaints are there? The VUB has concluded a deal with the professor concerned. Will the IGVM itself take further legal action in the matter? Can the IGVM also play a role in improving internal procedures of complaints at universities and educational institutions in general? What should be done, in your view, to better protect students from cross-border behaviour and abuse of power? How can we stop these abuses of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u3	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the other speakers have already outlined the problem very clearly. We see that universities seem to have acted like nothing was going on for a very long time. What we are reading in the press is, however, hallucinating. The VUB can only fire a pro after he's killed 20 people. The Standard spoke about the fact that victims are not kept informed and, as Mrs Vindevoghel also pointed out, that the approach is more traumatic than the cross-border behavior itself. Some people get feedback, but it is completely wrong. The problem certainly has to do with the fact that a university suddenly has to be a court of law. She'd have to tip people off, sometimes close a deal, sometimes fire people and sometimes work with them. The right way of doing things is a very delicate balance to stay on the right foot with both parties or to treat them properly, without breaking too many pots. That's probably their objective. Sometimes there's no other way. You must therefore also draw up an overall approach to what is happening and what the scope of a notification is. The victims need to know that there is nothing criminal against a report and that there is no ordinary complaint to the service. A formal complaint to the police forces can then be continued. The victims must be actively supported in this respect. It is only in this way that an institution should no longer judge what happened. A court of law and, initially, a police department and then the public prosecutor can then see what was going on. Do you have any discussions with the educational institutions? Are you going for a global plan of action? Will you consult with your fellow Justice and Home Affairs Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u4	Mr President, the problem has already been set out, so I will not repeat it. The VUB, the KUL and the Ghent University have been mentioned, but meanwhile there are also rumours about incidents at other colleges. At Flemish level, both the Flemish Interuniversity Council, the VLIR, and the Flemish Hogeschoolraad are working on new policy reports on cross-border behaviour. The events have one thing in common, namely that the victims all say that there was far too late and too little decisive intervention. Victims either break down their studies or even resign, as they feel trapped in the situation. They don't feel like the university is really targeting the perpetrator or they call the approach too low. With most victims, it took years for something to happen to their complaint. The situation is complex. Higher education is a very competitive landscape, in which both students and assistants have to prove themselves to often only one or at most some professors with far-reaching autonomy in their assessments. There are always power relations and unequal relationships. The question arises as to whether, through its powers, the federal government could take additional steps to assist the victims and encourage educational institutions to take their internal complaints treatment on cross-border behavior more seriously. Madam Secretary of State, have you taken note of the recent reports? I suppose so. Do you agree that there is room for improvement? In recent days, after our questions have been submitted, have any further complaints been received from the IGVM regarding cross-border behaviour or discrimination in the academic world? Conversely, how many of the reports within the IGVM come from the higher education landscape? What steps can we take in this regard? Do you see ways to strengthen the role of the Institute in preventing and addressing cross-border behaviour in higher education?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u5	Mr President, the problem has already been sufficiently explained. To sum up, where there are dominant positions, there is also cross-border behaviour. In the past, examples have emerged in the media, in the cultural sector and in the sports sector. There are also dominant positions between professors and students at the universities which are the subject of this debate. Cross-border behavior is due to the large MeToo movement underneath the stolp. This is now being addressed by sector. In universities, too, it is now established that procedures do not work as foreseen. Although there are hotlines, codes of conduct and disciplinary procedures, in practice there is very little clarity among the victims about the possible follow-up to a notification of cross-border behaviour. From a traffic point of view, a crossroads is only dealt with after a serious accident, as someone put in De Morgen yesterday. There have been similar serious accidents at universities and cases are finally being dealt with, and all these procedures are now finally being transposed into practice. The challenge is to respond quickly and also to communicate about it, so that other victims are sensitised to file complaints. There is a need for a culture in which such matters can be discussed. Victims should not be punished if they report abuse, although it still appears to be the case today. For example, students at KU Leuven stopped their doctoral studies because they found that no action was taken on their complaints. That's very poignant. An internal study was only launched at the VUB after the intervention of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Madam Secretary of State, what role does the Institute play today in accompanimenting complaints of cross-border behaviour in universities? Can improved procedures be developed for the internal handling of complaints from cross-border behaviour? This question also applies to other sectors, alongside universities, because I believe that sectors will follow. According to a risk analysis by the prevention service IDEWE, the highly hierarchically organised sectors are the most sensitive. We have not yet heard anything from the transport or industry sectors, for example. How can we provide better support? Can these procedures be better made known through awareness campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u6	This is a topical debate. Are there any Members who would like to speak? That can be done now or later with the replies. No? Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u7	Mrs Vindevoghel, Mrs Platteau, Mrs Bury, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your many questions and for making this matter a priority for this committee. Unfortunately, sexual violence and cross-border behavior are also common in college and university campuses. A 2019 study by the University of Liège showed that more than one in five female students had experienced an attempted rape during their studies. The Balance ton folklore movement, which saw the light last spring, has already denounced problematic behaviour in several French-speaking universities in the country. Similar facts were denounced in Morocco a few weeks ago. Now the messages from the Flemish institutions will follow. This clearly shows that the victims are expressing themselves and are no longer afraid of suing the perpetrators. It is becoming increasingly clear that cross-border behaviour is no longer tolerated. I agree with you that we must fight this battle. I must, of course, point out that education is a competence of the Länder. That doesn't mean I'm trying to contribute where I can from my authority. As you know, I am opening five new Care Centres after Sexual Violence (ZSG). In this context, I am working on a pilot project specifically aimed at the student environment. That project should be rolled out in 2022. We know that there are problems of cross-border behaviour and sexual violence in the student environment. We also know that several of the care centres will be or will be in student cities: Ghent, Antwerp, Liège, Leuven soon. In these student cities relevant actors are close to the ZSGs: student associations, university facilities, hotlines, etc. They are essential pillars in this struggle. The aim is to put all these actors in a network around the ZSG. In doing so, we would like to see what role each of them already plays or could play in order to put a stop to sexual violence. I would also like to return to the valuable work of the institute. The facts at the colleges and universities show, in particular, that the institute does much more than just legal action. In the case at the VUB, for example, the institute assists victims, has mediated it and provided it with its expertise at any time. As I have said, I would like to do everything possible under my authority to support further actions in the field of higher education at federal level as well. In order to better coordinate the approach to cross-border behaviour and sexual violence in higher education, I will bring together the institute and various universities and colleges of applied sciences. My intention is to make the expertise of the institute optimally available to the educational institutions, to further develop cooperation with the care centres and to identify the additional needs that the educational institutions may still have. Finally, I cannot comment on the steps taken by the Institute in individual files, but of course the issues that come out about higher education, but also the scandal about The Voice of Holland have a tangible impact on the functioning of the Institute. In January 2022 alone, the number of notifications received by the Institute increased by 15%. The institute stands by all victims one by one. In the light of the criticism that other parties have just made about the operation of the Institute, I think it would be appropriate to consider this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, I have remembered two important points. The first is the role of care centres. You can play a part in that. We are also very positive about this and consider it very important. I have already asked once whether a care centre could also be set up in Brussels at the university. We need to think further about this, because care centres close to universities would be a good thing. It would be good if they were expanded there. Secondly, we also consider the institute to be very important. It is good that you underline this, because others will say something about it later that we are not so happy with. The Institute must play its role. I am glad that students are now drawing a line in the sand and saying that they can't do it anymore, but the hotline is not easy enough and we hear from young people that they don't even know it. Too little is being done and it is not being followed up enough, so there is still a lot of work to be done. We will therefore support next week's actions: on 15 February, students from different universities will come to the streets to draw a line in the sand. We really need to support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, it is very good that you emphasise the role of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. It can indeed play a very important role, especially by sharing its expertise on cross-border behaviour. Then it's clear what we can tolerate and what we can't tolerate. In the second line, it can be a stick behind the door for victims, just like the Gender Room of the Flemish Ombuds service is. However, the problem needs to be tackled internally, in organisations such as colleges or other working contexts. There is clearly a need for an organisational culture in which borders are respected. When people say that borders are being crossed, this must be taken seriously. In that sense, I am surprised at Mrs Bury's intervention, which refers to the public prosecutor's office. Criminal cases are indeed for the public prosecutor and must be followed up. Other forms of abuse of power that are not consistent with an organisation's internal deontology and organisational culture should be addressed internally. That's why there are disciplinary proceedings. It is effective for the employer to take such matters seriously and pass them on to, for example, internal employment prevention services and welfare services of universities or other employers. Students are on the streets right now and don't think there's enough going on. They demand zero tolerance. I also support their protest on 15 February. Far too little is being done with these complaints. The complaints about this pro have been there since 2010. The painful thing about all this is that universities are just the places where knowledge is present. They have the knowledge about diversity policy. The transposition into practice is still not possible. As a result, some women have had to stop their academic careers. This is particularly painful in the light of the policy of equal opportunities that is being pursued on paper in all universities. The leaking pipeline is the phenomenon in which the percentage of female students graduating at some faculties is higher than the next steps in the academic career. We need to see that in this context too. We must do everything we can to promote equal opportunities at universities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u10	Thank you, Mrs Platteau, for the good explanation of your contradiction. First, you're saying you don't understand why I like to turn on parachutes and police and then the existing system doesn't work at all. That is precisely why we need to go a step further. Your answer is very confusing. You say it doesn't work, and then you say that police and public prosecutors don't really have a role to play. The Secretary of State wants to bring everyone together to see what those hotlines, confidants and disciplinary committees are doing. That's very good. The Institute will play its role there as well. Could you keep us informed of what has just been said at the consultations, what plan will be drawn up and what steps will be taken to formalise complaints to the police and the public prosecutor, for which consultation is needed? Ghent University had 400 complaints for cross-border behaviour in 2020. In Leuven there were 120. There is work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, you spoke of a project aimed at the academic world and the world of higher education. Perhaps you could explain this a little more at another meeting. I would like to know what that means. Or can you transfer that to us in writing? That would be very kind. Bringing the institute together with the academic world to intensify cooperation is, of course, a very good idea. I have also heard the idea of the external hotline going around in the last few days, including on the radio. The institute is also a hotline, where perhaps the flow of information can be improved. That seems to me to be a little too much of a good thing. We must make a strong commitment to the flow of information to the institute so that it can really act as a point of contact. This in turn depends on my question as to whether it could not be a suggestion to go in consultation with the Länder in order to improve the flow of information there. Whatever happens, education is a sub-state competence and we know how things are going. You can play the role of bridgehead there. Finally, I also asked about the number of complaints that came into the institute. You say you can't say anything about those complaints yourself. I understand. However, the numbers would be interesting. I was wondering if, along with these events that the media are getting, they have also increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, the challenge is to put what exists into practice. I hope that your consultation with the academic world will yield something, because that is what we must strive for. There must be a quick reaction if something is reported and the victim in question must feel safe, and experience a safe space where she can safely report something and feel that something is being done with it right away. That's the challenge. There is already a great deal. The challenge is not to create an additional institute or hotline, but to make what exists work effectively. This requires consultation, to see what is wrong with culture today. For far too long, people in positions of power at universities were held over the top of their heads. The connections between the services and those professors were perhaps too strong to work effectively. We must avoid that. We must try to make the procedures that exist more effective. You spoke of the institute. I think it is very good that it provides assistance. It proves once again its usefulness. You also talked about the Care Centers after Sexual Violence. Then, of course, it's about sexual violence. In the case of Leuven, it was actually more about stalking and privacy violations. So that's about the psychosocial risks at work. For this there is a federal law, which provides for well-being at work. Is there perhaps something there that needs to be worked out better so that it becomes more effective? We need to look at it together with the universities to ensure that what exists today is used effectively and credible to the victim, so that she or she can actually experience a safe environment at work and with his or her complaint go somewhere. This can, of course, be dealt with internally. As Mrs Bury also said, one can go on and make an official complaint to the Labour Auditorate, to the Labour Court. There are procedures for this. However, this also requires assistance. I would ask you to go further in this and to ensure that what exists is applied more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, walking the streets alone as a woman in the evening is no fun in certain cities. I also keep my cell phone at hand when I walk alone in the street at night. Now there would be an app that could make it feel safe. In England, support is being given to the largest telecom company that is developing a new tracker to protect women and girls. Madam Secretary of State, do you know the existence of apps that can help improve the safety of women on the streets, such as the Life360 app? How many people are already using that app? Are you considering having that new tracker from England put into use here, too, or are the existing apps sufficient? What steps will you take to make the use of this app more known to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u14	According to a study conducted in Charleroi, Antwerp and Brussels by Plan International Belgium, 91 percent of girls and 28 percent of boys between 28 and 24 years of age were victims of sexual harassment and one in five girls had to deal with unwanted touches. Last year the IMC worked effectively on this issue. Measures have been taken at all levels to increase insecurity in public space. For example, Minister Henry has launched a campaign against sexual harassment on public transport. At federal level, it was decided to evaluate the sexism law. At national level, the NAP was adopted which included various measures on sexual harassment in public spaces. At the same time, the Communities also have a major responsibility in the establishment of public spaces. In Flanders, the awareness campaign Hey, it is okay launched by Sensoa to prevent cross-border behavior in public spaces. In addition, Sensoa developed the flag system, a methodology to assess sexual behavior and respond appropriately. The French Community recently launched the use of the Apple application on its territory. This French application is available in 13 countries. With this application you can quickly launch an SOS call warning three contacts simultaneously. The GPS location is tracked in real time. What is said will also be recorded. At the same time one can call the emergency services. The backup of the alert may serve as evidence. However, I would particularly like to focus on the causes of the insecurity and the responsibility to protect themselves do not shy away from women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I am very pleased to hear that action is being taken with the app and other things. Last year's study on International Women's Day showed that Belgium was doing worse than the European average. One woman on two avoids certain streets. I am very pleased that you are addressing the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u16	The 2007 anti-discrimination law includes language-based discrimination. Discrimination based on language can manifest in different ways. An example is when insufficient mastery of the Dutch or French language is used as a reason to exclude applicants. This makes it very difficult for certain people to integrate into the labour market. Sometimes people are discriminated against because they have a certain accent. Language discrimination is therefore an important focus of equal opportunities policy. However, reports on language discrimination are not subject to any public authority in Belgium. In certain cases, however, a certain language requirement gives rise to an indirect distinction based on a racially protected criterion. An example is the requirement in a vacancy where a candidate worker must have a certain language level that is not at all in a reasonable relation to the nature and context of the job. In that case, Unia may fall back on the anti-racism law. However, Unia is not competent for direct forms of language discrimination. In the 2017 evaluation report of the anti-discrimination legislation, Unia indicated its willingness to accept the grounds for discrimination as 'language' as an additional task. How often does language discrimination occur in our country? Do you have any concrete plans for preventing and combating language discrimination? Do you think it is possible and/or desirable for Unia to be given the power to deal with notifications of language discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u17	Language discrimination concerns an important issue of equal opportunities policy, as you rightly point out. The Federal Institute of Human Rights (FIRM) has a residual competence covering all human rights which are not covered by the powers of the other human rights bodies. This includes discrimination based on language. However, FIRM is not competent to hear individual complaints. Unia can indeed play a role in this. At present, the existing remedies can be invoked by people who feel discriminated against on the basis of language. It is a legally protected criterion. They may apply to courts and tribunals under the anti-discrimination law. In addition, the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring is responsible for ensuring the correct application of language legislation. As determined by the government agreement, we are currently preparing an assessment of the institutional landscape of equal opportunities and human rights bodies. The treatment of individual complaints about discrimination, including language discrimination, will be part of that evaluation. We also expect concrete recommendations from the evaluation committee on anti-discrimination laws. Their final report is due at the end of the month. I shall then proceed with those recommendations. Your questions about the possible amendment of the legislation will therefore be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u18	Thank you for your very clear answer. I am pleased that you also consider language discrimination to be an important focus on equal opportunities policy. I also look forward to the evaluation of the anti-discrimination legislation that we can expect at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I submitted my questions some time ago. We discussed them in the context of the policy paper, but I did not really get an answer to it at the time. I'd like to go over the timeline with you. As part of the policy paper, I asked a number of factual questions about financial transparency. I listened to your answer again yesterday. You referred to a written reply, but I did not receive it. I had also asked for an explanation of the legal proceedings and the decision-making boom that is being used. You also referred to a written reply that I did not receive. I have also explicitly asked for the reports of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men to be reviewed over the last five years. In your reply, you said that transparency is very important to you and that you would take steps. But that was two months ago and I haven't heard anything yet. That is why I have retabled my questions. I call for transparency, because, as you yourself said, transparency is of course very important for an institution that works with taxpayers' money. I submitted the first question on the Amazon vzw on 3 November 2021. I also asked at that time about the Institute's annual reports. You told me to contact the institute myself in the context of the public access of the board. After our meeting on 3 December, I did so, and on 11 January I submitted an application to the nstituut in which I asked for the same reports, the decision-making boom and financial transparency. On 25 January 2022 I received the answer from the institute that it will investigate my question. There is, however, something strange. During the period between 11 and 25 January, a number of adjustments were made by employees of the Institute. That is why I have tabled two written questions today to which I refer. I ask for absolute transparency in your answers to those questions. As far as the Amazon non-profit organisation is concerned, Madam Secretary of State, I have asked you what explains the drastic difference between the number of grants for other associations and the number of grants for Amazon. What procedures have been followed? To what extent has the social need for subsidies been examined? Can these subsidies be used to pay off certain debts? It is an amount of EUR 130,000 which, according to Amazon's balance sheet, has been settled with subsidies granted to you as a federal government. Do you have a budget? I have also requested this budget and have not yet received it from you. Can we see the controlling function of the members of the board of directors guaranteed? Do you have any records of this? Is the Government of the Buildings still responsible for the rent of the buildings in which the non-profit organisation Amazon operates? I would like to receive the budget submitted to obtain those grants for the working years 2021 and 2022. I would also like to have the motivation given to the board of directors to pay out that grant and the response of the board of directors to it. I would have liked to have received a copy of the report on how such subsidies are allocated and how this is recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u20	First of all, and in view of the elements you added to the speech, my firm did not receive a written question from you at this stage. I'd like to inform you. As soon as we receive them, we will of course follow up on them. In implementation of Article 4, 4 of the Founding Act of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, the Management Board may grant structural grants to organisations active in the field of gender equality within the budgetary possibilities. A detailed procedure has been established for the allocation of these grants, which has been applied for many years and is also being reviewed by the Court of Auditors. Any organisation wishing to obtain a structural grant shall draw up a concrete work plan and a budget for the coming year of work for the structural tasks and activities to be subsidised. This plan and the budget shall be forwarded in writing to the IGSM Management Board and presented orally. For each application file, the Financial Service of the IGVM shall draw up a note containing a thorough analysis of all information transmitted. If necessary, additional documentation shall be requested. The Management Board shall decide on each dossier. The agreement drawn up in implementation of this decision shall describe the objectives and budget lines for which a grant is approved. The agreement thus provides certainty and clarity on the use of the grants and on what the institute expects of the organisations concerned. Mrs Depoorter, I must point out a slight error in your question. According to you, in its analysis of the 2019 year of operation, the Court stated that the grants for the organisations receiving a structural grant for 2019 were awarded before their budget was submitted to the IGVM. That's not correct. There is probably some confusion here. The comment on the budget submitted concerns the budget of the Institute itself. It had to be submitted in the spring of last year. At that time, it was very difficult for the organisations concerned to submit annual planning with the corresponding budget for the year itself. In drawing up the Institute's budget for the year itself, therefore, an estimated amount is being worked out, which can be adjusted later, whatever happened in the past, for example in connection with savings rounds. In the past, therefore, the annual plans and the corresponding budget of the Structural Fund organisations were only approved at the beginning of the year itself. On the basis of the comments of the Court of Auditors, that timing was adjusted. The annual planning has been submitted and approved since 2020 before the beginning of the working year. For example, the work plans and budgets for 2022 were presented at the November 2021 plenary session. Organisations are obliged to submit a final financial and substantive report on the activities carried out, no later than three months after the end of the year of work, i.e. no later than 31 March of the following year. These reports shall describe all activities and financial transactions relating to structural contracts and activities carried out. Evidence of the achievement of the intended results should also be provided. This concerns the organisation's last approved balance sheet and profit and loss account, a separate statement of revenue and expenditure on structural contracts and activities, including an overview of all items booked, copies of all invoices and debit notes, including proof of personnel costs, an explanatory note on the eligible costs and a copy of the invoices. The Institute's financial department then makes an in-depth analysis of all the documents. That analysis shall be transmitted to the Management Board together with the final report of each organisation. The Management Board shall approve the final financial and substantive report and take the final decision on the amount to be paid. For Amazon, an additional procedure was introduced two years ago asking for a quarterly report on the financial situation, because that organisation had a financial difficulty. This procedure was intended to enable the Institute to control Amazon's activities financed by the Institute's resources. This control is within the limits of the monitoring of the implementation of the agreement and the monitoring and control of the use of public funds. As far as Amazon's building is concerned, no rent will be charged, but these users will pay the cost of consumption, such as energy costs. Finally, you know that I am working to give Parliament access to the reports of the Institute's board of directors. In addition to the law on disclosure, there is also the law on confidentiality of the meeting and privacy. So you will understand that I am seeking legal advice on the best way to give access to those reports. Transparency is important, but respect for the law is also important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, I regret that in your reply you switch from one file to another without knowing what you are talking about. You say that you are working on the disclosure of governance and to what extent you can guarantee privacy. You've had two months to do that. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men got the press. The Institute's accounts are not transparent at all. Between my question and the answer from the Institute, changes were made to official entries concerning the remuneration of employees. Again, you answer that you will investigate. I find that scandalous. Your government is ensuring that there is not even a board of directors at the Commission for access to administrative documents. There is absolutely negligence here. You say that there was a mistake in my question, but I could not tell from your answer whether a clear Amazon budget was first submitted to the Board of Directors of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Were you talking about the annual accounts, which are audited? I admit, however, that I have not always understood your answer correctly. I will read it again later, when a proper Dutch text is available. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly stated that the transparency of the grants granted to this institution is insufficient. You yourself lifted a tip of the veil, namely that the rent of the buildings is not taken into account. I expected a sound answer from you, but it did not come. I will continue to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u22	I would like to repeat the rules laid down in Rule 48 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The interprellant, in this case Mrs Pas, will have ten minutes and the usual questioners who join us, five minutes. For the replies it is five minutes for the interplelant and five minutes for the questioners. Three additional members can join in for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I shall begin with a brief account of the facts. The trial against Bart De Pauw has already cost the taxpayer at least EUR 130,000. The salaries of the lawyers assisting women in the De Pauw case have been paid in full by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. For example, 115,000 euros of taxpayers' money went on to pay honors and a further 15,000 euros for a psychologist's report. The invoice will undoubtedly increase significantly, since the start of the process, the session days and so on, have not yet been invoiced. However, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is a government institution. However, it was not considered necessary to issue a tender. That is, however, a legal obligation. Following an informal contact, the Institute directly recruited one of the most expensive law firms in the country. That's irresponsible throwing taxpayers' money. It is a custom that is often seen by socialists. I am therefore not surprised that the deputy director of the institute and conductor of the trial, Liesbet Stevens, was on Vooruit's list during the most recent municipal elections in Leuven. She defended herself by claiming that we got 30% off the lawyers, but she did do everything she could to keep the amount a secret. When Het Laatste Nieuws investigated that, she refused all cooperation at first. Journalists who informed about it didn't get an answer. Through emails to the Flemish minister of Media Dalle, the institute even tried to silence those journalists. The way things are going does raise questions about ethics within the institute. The reporter's union called this pure political harassment. Moreover, there appears to be serious blurring and conflict of interest in the award of grants by the Institute. For example, an audit by the Court of Auditors in 2019 shows very clearly. The members of the board of directors proved to be very generous in subsidising associations which they themselves form part of. Madam Secretary of State, this brief factual account alone raises serious questions about the functioning of Mrs Stevens on her lucrative post of roughly EUR 8,000 per month, but also about the functioning of the institute as a whole. A colleague has already asked you a written question about the payment of legal fees for the well-known women who took bourgeois parties to the De Pauw trial by the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women. Until now, we have not been able to receive an answer to this. It's a lot of taxpayers' money, though. That is why I am talking today, because it is necessary for you to provide transparency and clarity. Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm, first of all, that the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women effectively pays the legal costs of the bourgeois parties in the De Pauw case? Secondly, will the Institute consistently pay the legal fees of ordinary Flemish people in similar situations or procedures in the future? Thirdly, has the institute already intervened in the payment of court fees or attorney fees in other cases? How many times is it about? What was the cost of this, preferably at a time? Fourthly, how many lawyers are funded by the Institute in the De Pauw case? How much attorney fees have been paid so far? Is there any check on the bill of the civil parties' lawyers? If so, how does that check go? Fifth, can you provide us with a detail of the billing of lawyers' fees in the De Pauw case? Through a Flemish newspaper we learned that the institute did not want to give transparency about the wages of its lawyers. I read that this happened to the very great wonder of Master Hugo Lamon, an authoritative voice at the Order of Flemish Balies. He was right to ask questions about the grounds on which it was based not to give transparency about the financing of these honorary wages with public money. On what grounds did they want to keep this secret in the first place? Is there a maximum intervention in the lawyers' fees at the De Pauw trial? What happens to the justice fees? Sixth, did the civil parties for which the lawyers' fees were paid have legal aid insurance in the family policy? If you reply in the affirmative, I want to know, of course, whether the payments made to the bourgeois parties who have such a policy will be recovered from the respective legal aid insurers. Seventhly, how and on the basis of what criteria is the institute deciding to intervene in a court of law? Is it the institute that contacts counsel in a procedure and informs them that they can bill the institute? Or should the counsellors of the bourgeois party contact the institute themselves with the request to pay the attorney's fees? Is there a procedure for that? If so, which one? Finally, the Institute has the possibility to stand autonomously as a civil party. I think it is very important to know how and on the basis of which criteria it is decided to do so: when and when? How much legal fees, how much court fees were already paid for each case? Who are these counselors from the institute? How many are funded by the Institute? Who decides to appoint those counselors? Shouldn't there be a tender for that? Was there a tender for other issues in the past? Was there a ceiling agreed on the remuneration of the aforementioned lawyers? That's not unimportant, since it's one of the most expensive law firms in the country. I would like to have a look at the agreements that are being made in this area, particularly, Madam Secretary of State, at the criteria for allocating these matters. What has struck me most in this case is that the institute already had at least EUR 130,000 of tax money at auction for the De Pauw case, but that women who were victims of rape, for example, do not have to count on any support in the procedures that concern them. So I would like to have an answer from you as to whether there are any objective criteria on the basis of which it is decided whether or not to act. I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u24	There were two combined questions. 55023712C and 55023713C by Mrs Van Peel, but she has not applied. The next question is from Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u25	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there is a great deal to be done about the legal costs of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, in the De Pauw case but also in other cases. There has also been a lot of press coverage. That is why I have a number of questions. The question I have put is somewhat summarized. What is the total cost of the case involving the IGVM? I had drawn up this question in order to receive a exhaustive list of staff costs, the costs for the law firm, the operating costs and all the communication costs. I also requested a copy of the tender. I would also have liked to know from you who was conducting the negotiations and when exactly the negotiations were conducted. Were those negotiations also communicated with the board of directors? If so, how did that happen? Can we receive the relevant reports from you? Was the board informed that a discount would have been agreed, as we read in the press? Madam Secretary of State, the timing is also very important. Indeed, when we read the verdict and look at the interviews, we see that the case was started by one of the ladies in 2017. The law firm has taken a number of assistance measures and carried out a number of cases between 2017 and 2019, when the IGVM came to terms with the scenario and posed itself as a bourgeois party. Who paid the costs between 2017 and 2019? I'll be more specific. It concerns advice, telephone calls, meetings with the other victims, assistance to the victims during interviews and access to the criminal record. Who paid for that? What agreements have been made within the IGVM? Have you been informed about this? I would also have liked to have heard from you about the decision-making process in all legal matters. There has recently been another issue, in which a certain facebook message has appeared in a magazine. In doing so, the IGVM has also acted, has borne the costs of the lawyer and is now appealing. How are these legal procedures decided? What fees were paid to the lawyers? In the interview given by the Deputy Director, she talks about an hourly rate. Is that an hourly rate including VAT? Are there also general secretarial expenses? What does the exact invoice look like? Can you give us more insight into that? Can you give them to us for inspection, too? How exactly was the Management Board informed? With regard to that civil contestation, in May 2020, the court already indicated that the IGVM would not actually be declared admissible as a bourgeois party, but when the IGVM pays the expenses, it is necessary that that bourgeois party award is admissible. To what extent was this communicated to the Governing Board? Was there sufficient knowledge of this? Is there two lawyers or are there more? I'd like to get the communication around the procedure. A communications agency was appointed. The deputy director indicated that at that time there would have been no communications officer, but if I were to investigate that myself, I'd see two people on the payroll working on communication. How much was the full invoice paid to the communications agency? What was the tender? I would also like to look at the invoice for the campaign 'Streep in the sand', because that is also linked to it. In fact, can you tell me what the full remuneration of IGM executives is? By this I mean the basic package, but also the other invoicings delivered to the IGVM by both executives. Finally, what are the costs for the staff of the IGVM employed in the De Pauw case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I have two questions that I will ask separately, even though they are both about the De Pauw trial. In the documentary "The trial no one wanted," several victims came back extensively on the facts that led to the trial against Bart De Pauw. The bourgeois posture by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is also briefly discussed. All the way to the end is described how the defense of Bart De Pauw used a number of notable tactics to say the least. An ex-partner of one of the victims was contacted, looking for possible incriminating information, and a high-ranking politician was called in for advice and communication services. Those cases were also dealt with during the trial. In the meantime, it appears that there have also been several attempts to obtain confidential information from the Institute itself, including by political mandate holders and by persons mandated by the previous government. The functioning of the legal service was discussed extensively at a meeting of the Board of Directors, with respect for the right to privacy of the victims concerned. The question of how far the right of inspection of the members of the Management Board, and also of colleagues here, on individual files, is being strengthened. It is, of course, important that the victims who register at the institute are treated correctly and that both their privacy and their story are protected by the institute against all third parties who wish to gain access to it. Can you confirm that in the De Pauw case, foreign interventions have taken place through members of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, in order to obtain sensitive information on the dossier? Do you agree that the individual interests of victims, their business and their privacy should be protected at all times by the Institute? Can you take measures to strengthen the institute in this role, so that the victims also know how to be better protected in high profile cases? My next question is about the same process, but from the point of view of communication. On Wednesday 5 January, Het Laatste Nieuws published an interview with Liesbet Stevens, the deputy director of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In that interview, the victims of Bart De Pauw were dismissed as tormented spirits who came out of the shadows one by one. Mrs Stevens was announced as perhaps his greatest tormentist and the activist evil genius that encouraged women to bring a lawsuit against Mr De Pauw. In the context of that interview, the journalist of News City also quoted an e-mail that the management of the institute sent to the Flemish minister of Media, with the CEO of PDG Media and the head of News City in cc. In the e-mail in question, the institute said: "We ask ourselves serious questions about the objectivity of the journalist and would ask you to look at this with urgency." The same interview in Het Laatste Nieuws shows that this was the result of an emerging conflict between the institute and the same journalist, after he had violated the source secret. After all, as Deputy Director Stevens confirmed in De Afsement on Monday 10 January, during the hearing, Mr De Pauw's defense quoted an e-mail from a mathematician of the institute who had been sent to the journalist in question on 6 October, and only to that one journalist. It was therefore surprising that this e-mail ended up with the opposing party, in a court of law in which the institution was a bourgeois party, in particular through a journalist from News City, involved in the coverage of the current trial. Attempts by the Institute to clarify the journalistic independence of the journalists at News City involved in the reporting of the De Pauw case did not yield anything, after which the Institute did indeed send an unfortunate email to the Flemish minister of Media on 1 October. In the meantime, the Institute has admitted that such an e-mail cannot be repeated. Nor, however, can it be intended that journalists, under the guise of their journalistic assignment, actively cooperate with the defence of a suspect during a trial, thus throwing away all the principles of journalistic independence. Madam Secretary of State, have you taken note of this case and of the breach of trust between the Institute and News City? How do you assess the interactions in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u27	Mr President, with my question I would like to open up a little. It is for the Institute to take legal action in legal disputes, including to ensure the application of criminal laws and laws relating to gender equality. It is difficult to blame the institute for carrying out its legal mission. The same applies to the De Pauw case. European directives also require that institutions should be designated for the monitoring of anti-discrimination legislation and that these institutions should also be able to act independently in legal proceedings. The institute does this not only in the De Pauw case, but also in the wider context. This is an average of ten cases a year. A thousand reports are received every year at the Institute and usually the Institute gives advice or refers it through. In some cases, the institute also asks itself bourgeois parties, and that is what these questions are about. Madam Secretary of State, in what cases does the Institute set itself up as a bourgeois party? At the moment, the institute is involved in some 40 cases. To this end, the Institute can have a budget of around EUR 500 000 on an annual basis, which seems to be a great deal, but with which it does not really jump that far. The Institute must therefore opt for court cases which have social added value and which exceed the individual interest of the victim. In the past, the Institute has proved its worth with very important matters, for example on IVF, which no longer discriminates against women when they are in a dragging process of in vitro fertilisation, which requires a lot of intervention. There is no longer any possibility of discrimination in this area thanks to the intervention of the Institute. I also mention a lawsuit against a woman who was fired in the recovery period after a miscarriage. In this way, judges think about the legislation and so legislation can be sharpened. In this sense, the institute is an added value. This also applies to cross-border behaviour, in which the Institute plays a role. It is quite clear that these things, look at what is happening within the universities, have brought about something, both in institutions and in the victims, to make it easier to talk about sexual and partner violence. The Institute has taken on an important role in making it negotiable for women and in focusing on certain legislation in this area. We are talking again today about the sexism law and its possible focus. Both in the case of Jeff Hoeyberghs and in the case of Bart De Pauw, the institute has proven its social added value. However, it must work with the resources it has, it must indeed make choices and it has chosen this matter. We may be able to find out why that case was chosen and why no other one was chosen, but I already know the answer to that. I see its social impact, because it is finally being discussed and clear procedures are being created, including at universities, in the area of disciplinary procedures. I would like to ask the following questions. Will you express your support for the role that the Institute is taking up today and which is imposed, among other things, by the European Anti-Discrimination Directive? Will you continue to support that role? Are you in favour of increasing the budget? Over the years, I've watched the institute grow. When the institute started, there were two staff members, now there are already a dozen staff members. There is a budget of about 500,000 euros, but the institute receives 1,000 complaints a year. Would you like to increase the budget, so that the institute is less forced to make choices in terms of social added value?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u28	Mr President, the IGVM is an administrative public institution with management autonomy. This means that the institute is an independent government institution with its own board of directors. That also means that my role as guardian secretary of custody is limited. The Institute's legal remit is to promote gender equality and combat discrimination and violence based on sex. The Institute does this by conducting investigations, formulating opinions and recommendations and providing victims with legal assistance. The provision of legal assistance to victims is therefore one of the legal means that the institute can use. Legal competence also includes the power to go to court together with victims. The institute handles about 1,000 reports a year. Most cases are solved by providing information or through mediation. In only 1% of cases or about 10 cases a year, a trial is started together with the victim. At present there are about 40 cases pending, because most of the court cases are not closed in one year. The annual budget for legal fees is 500,000 euros per year. In 2019 the institute collaborated with 37 lawyers at 17 law firms, in 2020 it worked with 55 lawyers at 18 law firms and in 2021 it worked with 55 lawyers at 23 law firms. In the Bart De Pauw case, two lawyers from the law firm Van Steenbrugge were working together. The Institute acts in support of the victim as part of this legal mission, but serves the general interest. The Institute therefore appointed a lawyer to represent the Institute's own interests. To the extent that the institution's own interests are similar to the victim's interests, this implies that no other costs must be borne by the victim. So the institute pays a lawyer for its own bourgeois stand. On the basis of a series of objective criteria, the seriousness of the facts, the extent of the problem, the social impact, the possible precedent value, the existence of gaps in Belgian legislation or problematic case-law, the risk of repeated or repeated accidents, the number of victims affected and the protection of the interests of unidentified victims, it is decided whether the institute is taking part in the bourgeois party dossier. The Board of Governors of the Institute shall be informed of these decisions so that members of the Board can ensure that these decisions form part of the implementation of the policy of the Institute as determined by the Board of Directors. The institute therefore has a legal mandate in terms of legal action and acts within it. I do not, and cannot, comment on the judgement of judges in individual cases. You understand this is not my place as Secretary of State. As regards the appointment of the lawyer, after it is decided to take legal action and appoint a lawyer, the file manager shall prepare the choice of that lawyer. A lawyer is mandated on the basis of objective criteria, including the expertise of lawyers in the legal field where the case is located, such as labour law, insurance law or criminal law, the expertise on the subject of the case, e.g. pregnancy discrimination, sex discrimination, revenge porn or beling, and the remuneration rate. The victim's financial capacity does not play a role in the institution's decision whether or not to intervene in the trial. It is clear from practice that the institute intervenes mainly in court cases for the ordinary Fleming, Waal and Brusselser. The suggestion that the institute would intervene only or even mainly for famous or rich people is demonstrably wrong. In the past, for example, the Institute has intervened in lawsuits involving cleaning aid, shopkeepers, warehouse workers, academics, managers and so on. These are dossiers of job seekers and temporary workers, students and trainees, workers and workers, servants, civil servants and self-employed persons. You seem to forget that in the case of Bart De Pauw, too, only four of the nine bourgeois parties were known Flemings. The other women were interns, dressers or editors. Only in a very small minority of court cases was the victim or the opposing party a well-known Belgian. What do you mean it's a waste of money when public resources go to defending victims? Do I really hear people here telling victims to draw their plans and be on their own? In the past, we have already discussed the so-called dark number in the fight against gender-based violence. To date, it remains extremely difficult for victims to file complaints, especially against someone in a dominant position vis-à-vis them. We cannot be outraged at the number of victims who do not complain and at the same time send the message that the Institute should not stand up for their rights. It is just thanks to the work of the Institute for Victims of each grade or state that we make this approach accessible. I cannot stress enough how essential this is. At the start of a file, it is impossible to predict which route the file will follow. That is why the term of office involves working with a lawyer with agreements on the hourly rate. The Institute cannot provide information on whether the victims have legal aid insurance in a specific case. This information is subject to the right to privacy. The approach is optimized as much as possible financially, with the institute of course always trying to keep the social added value of a matter in mind. Among other things, it also examines the possibilities through a trade union or legal aid insurer. Where a judicial allowance is granted in a case in which the institute is acting, the institute shall receive this allowance. Of course, the Institute's accounts are audited by the Management Board when it approves the annual accounts. The government Commissioner for the Budget is also involved in this. Finally, the institute as a public institution is also audited annually by the Court of Auditors. I therefore agree, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Van Hoof, that the individual interests of victims in their privacy should be protected at all times by the Institute and that the necessary checks and balances should be in place to ensure that the Institute does so correctly, within the law and through the Board of Directors. I fully support the Institute's competence to act in law and wish to express my full confidence in Mrs Stevens as Deputy Director. The attacks from certain parties on her person are unacceptable and low-by-ground. Since the start of the very mediatized De Pauw case in Flanders, the institute has tried to assist the victims in this case as well as possible, within the lines of its legal mandate. In addition, pressure has been exerted on the Institute in several ways on this matter. For example, a member of the previous board of directors also directly approached staff of the institute to obtain information through personal channels. However, there are clear procedures, which run through the Chairman of the Management Board, for matters to be placed on the Management Board's agenda. The Executive Board informed the relevant member of the Management Board that such questions should be asked through the Chairman of the Management Board. On Wednesday 24 February 2021, i.e. still under the previous composition of the Board of Directors, the functioning of the Institute's legal service was discussed extensively at the meeting of the Board of Directors. It covered all the aspects that have also been addressed in Parliament in recent weeks. Respect for the privacy of the victims and/or civil parties involved in the legal proceedings has also been observed. Mrs Jiroflée, as regards the victims of the De Pauw case, the institute then tried to protect the victims from the overwhelming media attention. On Thursday, February 4, 2021, a reportage was broadcast by a news service claiming to be a detailed reconstruction of the De Pauw case. During the De Pauw trial, the journalist who was responsible for the final editing of the report in question still reported the case. In that capacity, on Wednesday 6 October, a press officer from the Institute delivered this journalist, on his own question, an e-mail listing well-known elements of the case that had already been made mistakes by the news editor in question in the past. In other words, this email did not contain new information but wanted to correct previous incorrect reporting. On Wednesday, October 14, 2021, the defense attorney quoted literally from this e-mail during his plea, in an attempt to demonstrate the so-called conspiracy of the institute against his client, as if the institute had provoked the victims. Despite an urgent question from the Institute to the news editor in question, they could not or would not provide an answer. It is in this context, therefore, from a great concern of the institute about the journalistic independence of the journalists who reported on the matter in question, that the board of the institute addressed the Flemish Minister of Media by e-mail. Not as repeatedly and wrongly suggested with a question of intervention, but with the question of wanting to take note of this experience and give an opinion. The Minister replied a few days later that the Institute may refer the matter to the Council for Journalism and, in the case of the use of illegally obtained evidence, to the judicial authorities. Although there is no harassment or restriction of the freedom of the press, Mrs Stevens indicated that the management would no longer react in the same way in the future. It was the first time that the institute was confronted with such a case and with so much pressure and attention. A complaint to the Council for Journalism would have been a better response. If the situation were to repeat itself, that would be what the management would do. I heard Mrs Stevens say this myself. To date, however, there is no answer to the question of how an e-mail addressed to a journalist who actively reported the case almost immediately to the defense attorney. Meanwhile, the news editor and the institute have agreed to soon sit around the table in the hope of restoring confidence. Mrs Depoorter, the institute has played no part in the campaign 'Streep in the sand'. So your information in that regard is wrong. With regard to the institution's communication capacity, it should be noted that the institute has been in a difficult situation for some time. In 2021, only two of the four functions in the communication cell were completed, which required the institute to activate external communication assistance. That agreement runs until the end of 2022 and was estimated at a maximum of EUR 70,000. In addition, an agreement was concluded to mobilise additional support for the communication service on an ad hoc basis. The duration of that agreement was one year. The amount involved was EUR 30,000. In the meantime, procedures are under way to fill in the open positions, and this has already been achieved for a position. This was not, therefore, a question related solely to the De Pauw case, but rather to support all the institution's communication initiatives, for example communication in connection with investigations or the Institute's recommendations and communication in relation to other legal cases, etc. Of course, the Institute attaches great importance to transparency and pursues the highest transparency within the legal possibilities. As a public institution, the institute is also subject to the law on public access to administration. However, there are also specific legal restrictions on transparency in the cases in which the Institute is involved. The questions of disclosure of the specific costs in the De Pauw case concern the professional secrecy of the lawyer and the confidentiality of the company data of the law firm concerned, in this case the hourly rates, which are competitively sensitive information. The Institute shall publish an annual report. It also covers the legal proceedings in which the institute acts. The annual report shall also be forwarded to Parliament. In doing so, the Institute shall always make the offer to present the annual report in question to the committee if required. Of course, this offer is still valid today. As far as I am concerned, it is certain that the institute has always fulfilled its legal mission, and this under high pressure. Our opinions on the outcome of the De Pauw case may differ, but this should not be a reason to question the existence and functioning of the institute. Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Van Hoof, there is indeed additional support to the institute. In addition to the additional resources for, for example, the national action plan against gender-based violence, there is an additional budget for dealing with legal dossiers. This should further support victims of all kinds of gender-related issues, such as transpersonalities, people in the workplace, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for your long answer, but that does not mean that I have received an answer to all my questions. I've asked a lot of specific questions about costs. You have done so very easily, despite the openness of administration, to which you yourself refer, Madam Secretary of State, saying that hourly rates and wages would be covered by professional secrecy or would be of a confidential nature. If even the lawyers are asking questions about the grounds on which this would be kept secret, I am also asking myself very serious questions. I expected you to be more transparent in this area and to answer the questions I put as concretely as possible and to forward them to you long enough in advance. Colleagues, I agree that, in principle, that Institute for the Equality of Women and Men is valuable to our society. When it was established in 2002, it was commissioned to conduct research, provide advice, disseminate information, deal with complaints, detect discrimination. If I am not mistaken, it now has 41 staff and EUR 10 million per year. If these resources are used efficiently and effectively, on these important societal tasks, this would greatly benefit our society. I am thinking, for example, of tackling pregnancy discrimination in the workplace, ensuring equal pay for equal work, fighting partner violence and so on. However, I can only conclude that this is not what this institute is doing in practice. The name of the institute itself says it should defend men's and women's rights. I note that today it is not defending women's rights, but a specific ideological interpretation of them. Especially men's rights don't defend it. Madam Secretary of State, an objective of the Institute is a balanced distribution between women and men in the workplace. It is quite remarkable that the Institute does not apply that objective, that balance, in its own operation. 80% of the staff are filled by women. And the current board of directors, which you say works independently and that you are only the guardian minister, has 14 voting members, one of which is a man. Since the establishment of this institute, all the presidents of the board of directors have been women. Some equality between men and women is far from being achieved there. On the basis of an audit by the Court of Auditors in 2019, I find that public funds have not been used in a kosher way. I also notice that in the De Pauw case, public funds are being used to engage high-level friends and to launch an ideological witch hunt. That is not the essence for which the institute was founded. Equality between men and women is too important a social task to leave to such ideological extremists. I have already mentioned it in my question, but I would like to repeat it. It is significant that the institute had at least 130,000 euros of taxpayers' money, a figure that you did not want to confirm, but it may in reality have been even higher than that for the De Pauw case, while there are so many other victims. I mentioned rapes and other cases earlier. These victims do not have to count on any support in procedures that concern them. You can twist my words by noticing that I asked who has legal aid insurance. I don't care. My question was about the principle. If a person has legal aid insurance, is the principle applied that the policy holder's legal expenses are recovered from him? That was my question. I didn't ask you about the judges' judgment either. I have asked you about the objective criteria on the basis of which it is clear and transparent to decide in which cases and procedures the Institute for Equality of Women and Men acts. In your capacity as a guardian minister, you must ensure that the proposed criteria do not lead to indirect discrimination, with some victims not being assisted and others being assisted. You must ensure that no distinction is made between men and women in this respect either. I can only observe that this is not happening in practice today with the Institute for Equality of Women and Men, in which you have a blind faith. Madam Secretary of State, in order to encourage you to do so, and also so that you would like to examine the operation of the Institute, so that it does the work for which it was established objectively and without any form of clientelism, I have tabled a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, you are confusing this in your reply. The social importance is, of course, recognised. However important a certain social function is, financial transparency for the use of tax resources is always necessary. You spoke of the outcome of the trial. I will certainly not comment on the content. Mrs Van Peel is following the content of the dossier. However, I would like to discuss with you today the monitoring of financial flows and the public procurement law. In this respect, there are serious questions. You have clearly stated in your reply that the legal procedure has been explained to the Management Board. I've asked you three times to give me that explanation. I am asking you again and I have also tabled a written question to that effect. You also indicate how the files are drawn up, in which a file manager prepares for the appointment of a lawyer. I won't even comment on the expertise of the lawyers in question. That's not my expertise either. However, what is very special is that in December 2017, the particular lawyer has already acted for one of the victims and that certain actions have been taken between 2017 and 2019. I read them to you: advice, telephone calls, fees, meetings, interrogation assistance, access to the criminal record. You say here that, given the legislation under which the institute is based, the victims do not have to pay any contribution. On which public tender and on what law do you base yourself to pay those transactions before 2019? That's a billy question you really need to be able to answer. If not, there's definitely been a mistake here. The question of how the remuneration rates were set must also be answered. Of course, you do not have to indicate who has assistance insurance and who does not, but it is your job to indicate how much the government has paid for such a case-law in total. You declare your confidence in the Deputy Director. That is, of course, a good thing and that is the way it should be, but as Secretary of State, you must be able to bring proof here. When I ask you about the progress of the procedure, you address the journalists. You do not explain the procedure at the institute, but you point the finger at the journalists. That's not a bill answer. Madam Secretary of State, in November I asked you the first question, the second in December. On January 5th there will be an interview in the press. On 10 January there will be an interview in De Afsaan, on which the Deputy Director is present. On 11 January, as agreed with you, I will raise the question of public administration, the reports of the Management Board, the invoices, the payments and the remuneration of employees. On 17 January, Mr President, and I checked it this morning by calling Cumuleo O'Brien and telling Cumuleo that the remuneration of the Deputy Director should be changed. That will also be communicated to the Court of Auditors. On 25 January I will receive the answer from the Institute that my questions will be looked at. Madam Secretary of State, I believe in kindness and coincidence, but I would like to hear from you how it is that such interventions can take place in a few weeks. My question is very simple. Be transparent about that. A mistake, a misjudgement, it can all happen, but I would very much like an answer from you to my written question if you are not prepared to answer them orally today. That's essential. It concerns the management of an autonomous federal organization, which is paid by the State and, as politicians must declare their remuneration to the Registry. Mr President, I have a suggestion. The Secretary of State has suggested inviting the Institute to present the annual report. I would very much like to go into that. In addition, I have the suggestion that, if the cost of the process is effectively covered by professional secrecy, the Committee appoints the Court of Auditors to investigate the invoicing issues relating to the money flows that I have raised here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u31	Mrs Depoorter, next Tuesday we will have the order of business on the agenda and I suggest that you remind us of these two suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u32	I would like to reassure Mrs Pas first. There are also men defended by the Institute. The Governing Board is also composed of gender equality. Moreover, I notice that a colleague of the Flemish Interest says here that cross-border behavior is really impossible and that not 15 minutes later someone else from the Flemish Interest says that, if the suspected perpetrator is a known one, the victims are simply unlucky because then the government cannot do anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u33	I didn't say that at all. I don't know who you're talking about or what you're talking about. Please clarify, because I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u34	In fact, all of a sudden a number of questions are asked about the funding of the institute. There are all sorts of suspicions about the people who work there. Especially from the political point of view, attempts are being made to influence the case and to cut the institution short. There are all kinds of things thrown into a pile and that only in the hope that a piece of the mud would stick. The same thing happens through certain media. The Secretary of State has outlined the history very well. There are serious questions about the fact that the mail delivered to a journalist ends with the opposing lawyer and is used to try to discredit the case. The conclusion seems to me to be that the Institute has tried to fulfil its role as well as possible and has tried to protect the victims as best it can and has not done a flag flight when there was a great deal of headwind. Madam Secretary of State, I find what you said about the inappropriate intervention of a previous member of the board of directors very worrying. There too, it is a good thing that the Institute has protected the privacy of the victims, but it is not possible for members of the Board of Directors, appointed by the previous government, to be involved in obtaining confidential information about the Institute and to pass it on to certain political parties and all opposing lawyers. It shows once again the resistance that the victims of cross-border behaviour, violence and abuse often face. It shows once again the danger of unequal power relations and the need for a strong and independent institution to assist victims. If the case is so escalated today, it's not up to the institute, it's up to the perpetrators. I have not heard the Members who have replicated for me say anything about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for the answer and also for your strong support for the institute in the performance of its task, not only in words but also in deeds. It will also have a budget, with an increase this year. You do so directly, but also indirectly, by supporting the institute in the field of communication, which did not always go smoothly during this process. Liesbet Stevens also said at some point that they didn't have enough support. I also feel that the questions that are being asked today about the financial aspects and the questions of transparency are intended to undermine the Institute. I do believe that today the Institute plays its role for men and women. Mrs Jiroflée referred to it. Thirty percent of the complaints come from men. For example, it is about not being able to take birth leave, paying more at a discotheque, about not being accepted for certain functions. That's very relevant. They do not look at rank or stand. The Secretary of State said there are forty procedures in place. It's about women getting fired. An example was a pregnant woman who works as a worker in a garden center where sprays are used that are dangerous for pregnancy. This has a social added value because there may be a structural problem with workers in garden centres. That's how the ball started rolling. The same applies to the Bart De Pauw case. There is also clearly a social added value. I read in the newspaper that in the last six months, as much as 7% has been involved in cross-border behavior, men or women. So that's extremely relevant. This is also proof of the fact that universities are in the process of becoming more effective today. That means this has loosened something. It has happened since MeToo, whether they like it or not, in culture, in the media, in sports with volleyball women. It's easier to talk about. That also means that it is easier to combat it. This also applies to the Bart De Pauw case, whose added value has clearly been proven. That cost 130,000 euros. I've been around for a long time when it comes to equal opportunities. Sensitisation campaigns also cost a lot of money. This has worked incredibly sensitizingly. It's had a lot of media attention. That is much stronger than a awareness campaign, which also costs huge amounts of money. That's the shame of the matter. I support the institute in the role it has taken up. I think it is important that we continue to debate the tasks. However, I do not think that we should undermine the Institute's tasks. It combats discrimination and promotes equality, which I support more than 200 %, and I will continue to support that role. However, we must not avoid a debate, not even this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u36	Three groups which have not tabled any questions can now ask for the floor. Mrs Platteau has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u37	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for explaining the institution's legal remit, namely to promote gender equality and combat discrimination and violence based on sex. That is a task which I fully support, of course. Mrs. Pas, you just mentioned Deputy Director Liesbet Stevens. Mrs Liesbet Stevens is a respected professor of sexual criminal law who has a great deal of expertise in this area. You discredit her because she once committed herself politically to a political party. I find that very reprehensible. That would mean that anyone who has ever been politically committed can therefore have no expertise in a particular job, in a professional context. I take note of that. Madam Secretary of State, you explained that providing legal assistance to victims is one of the means that the institute can use legally. In the Bart De Pauw case, the institute acted fully within its legal competence. You also explained that only in 1% of cases a lawsuit is effectively initiated with the victim. You explained the criteria used: the seriousness of the facts, the extent of the problem, the social impact, the possible precedent value, the protection of the interests of unidentified victims. It is quite clear that these criteria were present in this case and that this was a case of great societal relevance that fits into the audiovisual sector in the wider context of MeToo, as Mrs Van Hoof also said. We all know the judge's ruling against which Mr Bart De Pauw has not appealed. We all know that the victims have had enormous courage to give these courageous testimonies. Mrs Jiroflée also referred to the media storm in which these women ended up, with the negative reactions they received in the media and, above all, in social media, where everyone was very quick to reach their verdict. These victims absolutely deserve our support. Colleagues of N-VA and Flemish Interest, what do you really want? It is often said that victims of cross-border behaviour have to complain or that women do not report enough. If they are then supported by a public institution, you will attack that institution. Those victims should be on their own. That is a very strange point of view. Given the scale of the case and the great societal relevance and impact, it is right that the institute has played its role. It filled that role in a proper way. It has certainly proven its social added value in this matter. We have to respect the facts and not turn things around. The prosecution has started the investigation, the whole process has certainly not been initiated by the institute. You also refer to the Institute's annual report, which is transmitted to Parliament. It is a good suggestion to invite the institute to the committee to explain the annual report. I'm definitely asking. I am also pleased to hear that there will be additional budgetary support. The institute now receives 1,000 complaints a year and that is the tip of the iceberg. It is certainly necessary to continue to support the institute. I hear here a plea from the Flemish Importance for quotas in boards of directors. I did not know that the Flemish interest advocates quotas and positive discrimination on gender equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u38	I didn't argue for quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u39	A third of the members of the board is a man and the director has been a man since 2016. In addition, 30% of complaints currently come from men. The facts do not matter to some colleagues and they will always oppose human rights organisations. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has a completely different view of this. I filed a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u40	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, attached to the Minister for Mobility, - whereas the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women apparently considered it appropriate to pay, even without a public invitation to tender, among other things, attorneys' fees for women who took part in the De Pauw case; - there are many cases in which women (and men) are victims of stalking, cross-border behaviour and sexual crimes, in which the institute does not intervene; - that it is far from true that the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women may determine arbitrary and 'à la tête du client' in which cases it considers it necessary to act in proceedings (whether or not) in court; - that it not only gives the impression that some victims are more important than others, but also calls into question the objectivity, credibility and even the reason for the institution's existence, all the more so in this way the institute has become an Institute of Inequality of Men and Women; asks the government - to define objective criteria which make it possible to decide clearly and transparently in which cases and procedures the Institute for the Equality of Men and Women intervenes; - ensure that the proposed criteria do not lead to (indirect) discrimination, where some victims would not be assisted, and others, or to a distinction between men and women; - on a regular basis, and with all transparency, to review the operation of the institute several times a year, so that it can do the work for which it has been established objectively and without any form of clientelism." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, Assistant to the Minister of Mobility, Whereas the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has apparently considered it appropriate to pay, in particular, the legal fees of women who have registered in the De Pauw case, without even having made a public invitation to tender; - Considering that there are numerous cases of harassment, inappropriate behaviour and sexual offences against women (and men), in which the Institute does not intervene; - Considering that it is anything but true that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men can arbitrarily and 'at the head of the client' determine in which cases it considers it necessary to intervene in legal proceedings (or not); - Whereas such an attitude not only gives the impression that some victims are more important than others, but can also call into question the objectivity, credibility and even the raison d'être of the Institute, all the more so since in so doing it has turned into an institute for the equality of women and men; asks the government - to define objective criteria on the basis of which it can be decided in a clear and transparent manner in which cases and procedures the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men intervenes; - to ensure that the proposed criteria do not lead to (indirect) discrimination between certain victims who are not assisted and others who are assisted, or to a distinction between men and women; - regularly, transparently and several times a year, examine the functioning of the Institute so that it can carry out the work for which it was created objectively and without any form of clientelism." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Eva Platteau. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Eva Platteau. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u41	I heard the testimony of a woman who wanted to file a complaint after becoming the victim of sexual violence. She went to the Health Centre after Sexual Violence or ZSG in Brussels. However, she was referred to the police station there, as the facts were more than a month old. On the site of the ZSG in Ghent, it says that victims can come directly and enjoy immediate care if the facts took place less than a week ago. If they took place more than a week ago, they'll have to make an appointment, but they can still file a complaint. We're asking for those care centers. It is a good system because it lowers the threshold for victims to report. That is why we need to make them as accessible as possible. Are there general guidelines on the services that victims may receive in the ZSG in relation to the time passed after the facts? What are the rules on the lodging of complaints in the ZSG, in particular as regards the time elapsed after the facts? On what basis are these time limits fixed? The existing ZSG receives many complaints. Are the reporting periods kept more limited due to problems with capacity and resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u42	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, you probably know more than I do all the difficulties that can be encountered when you are subjected to sexual violence when you are a woman, especially when you know that in a large part of the cases, if you want to file a complaint, it is not taken into account. It's closed. And even if we get to the end of the procedure, there are only 1% of the perpetrators or rapists who are convicted. This pushes victims not to take their situation seriously. There are also SPACs who do outstanding work in the field. They accompany these victims, in particular in these proceedings, to give them the courage to conduct this fight. This has produced significant results on the ground. Once we have experienced sexual violence, it takes time to have the courage to go ahead, especially to go to the SCVS. It takes time to have the psychological strength to conduct this fight. When we arrive at the care centre, after all these reflections and the care is refused following a delay, I am surprised. How long has there been time to be taken care of by these centres? Is that correct? I went to the CPVS site to check after receiving a testimony. It states that after a month, the case can no longer be handled because there is a shortage of staff and the centre is overloaded. Madam Secretary of State, do you confirm this information? Why is there a deadline? It is outrageous to have put this kind of limitation in place! If so, what do you intend to do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u43	Mr Boukili, thank you. I would like to point out that this question was addressed to Minister Verlinden before being referred to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u44	Mr Boukili, mevrouw Vindevoghel, as you know, the CPVS provide a multidisciplinary welcome and are accessible 24/7. The CPVS of Charleroi and Antwerp, the last two to be opened in 2021, have already received 140 victims on 31 December. I see it as good news, since it means that the victims quickly find the way to these centres shortly after their opening. In any case, I can tell you, Mr. Boukili, that all the victims who came into a CPVO have been taken care of. All the victims! The centres are busy, but there is no evidence of saturation. A ZSG is directly accessible to all victims of sexual violence. The faster a victim knocks on a care centre, the more medical aftercare can be provided at the care centre, such as emergency contraception. The seven-day period was defined as a forensic investigation is in principle possible up to seven days after the facts. When a victim of non-accutaneous sexual violence signs up at a care centre, the forensic nurse shall assess, on the basis of a medical protocol, what medical care can be offered to the victim. A person who comes to a ZSG will always be welcomed and will always be listened to, even though the facts are more than a month old. When an adult victim of acute sexual violence decides to file a complaint, a vice inspector goes to the SCVS in which the victim is to conduct an interview that is filmed. For victims of non-acute sexual violence, an appointment can be made at the CPVS or at a police station. In a police station, the interview will be conducted by a police officer who has received training as an inspector of morals or, at the very least, by a police officer with experience in dealing with victims of sexual violence. If the facts go back more than a month, it is best to call the SCVS to set an appointment. The victim will be welcomed, listened to and medical and psychological care needs will be examined. Care is not the same as care within seven days. The victim will be redirected to other organizations that can truly meet his or her needs and an appointment with the police can be made to file a complaint. Psychological support is offered to all victims who go to a CPVS. This can be done either at the CPVS or in another structure which will be closer to their home since today, in Belgium, there are only five CPVS and therefore they are not necessarily in direct proximity to the victim's place of life. It is sometimes more convenient for her to find psychological support closer to her home. The victim has access to 20 free sessions at the psychologist. I am currently working on optimising the current SCVS to ensure optimal victim reception. For example, the Brussels CPVS will be expanded and the premises of the Liège CPVS will be modified shortly. I am also working, as you know, on the opening of new centres. These actions are complementary to the National Plan of Action to Combat Gender Violence, which includes many measures both to optimize the CPVS but also to prevent and protect victims of sexual violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, what I do not understand is that the person we have heard has been effectively referred to the police. However, you say that everyone in the ZSGs is received and helped, but that is different from the story we have heard. On the site it says that after a certain period people can no longer go to the care center. I find that strange, and we think it should be very low-threshold. It is already not easy for people and we therefore believe that there should be no limit to the time when they can turn to a care centre. I am pleased that you are announcing an enlargement in Brussels. We did know that it was too small, that too many people applied. So that's a good thing. However, we believe that accessibility should always be there and that there should be no time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u46	Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State, the testimony I received was not invented. You say everyone is welcomed. But that is not the case. After more than a month, the CPVS cannot take care of it. It is oriented towards other structures that are less efficient and less suitable. You know that very well. As you said yourself, when those of Antwerp and Charleroi were opened, they were directly filled. The need is therefore excruciating. In the face of this situation, although you speak contrary to reality on the ground by saying that everyone is being taken care of, it must be noted that the SPCs are largely insufficient. You say that you are working on their enlargement and the creation of other SCVs. But today we are in an emergency situation. Thus, for example, since the Ixelles case, the creation of a CPVS in this commune has been the subject of claims. It is a student district in which several such attacks have taken place since this case. Yet there is still no centre in this area. At some point, we need to be able to respond to needs. I was just trying to get you to tell me that everything was going to be done to solve the problem. But you say there is no problem, which is more worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the question I am asking here is very simple. It is linked to my research into financial transparency and to respect for the law on public procurement. I have been told that the cooperation currently under way between the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Ghent University would have been discontinued. Can you confirm that? Did that happen on the basis of an evaluation? Has the board been informed about this? Instead, there would be a call for tenders, at least that is what I suspect or hope to go to the NICC, the National Institute of Criminology and Criminalism. Was the board informed about this? Has the Council endorsed this decision? I would also like to have the overview of the decision tree used for this purpose, the criteria on which the NICC was selected and the compliance with the public procurement law. What kind of market consultation happened? What are the other candidates' scores? Has this been communicated to the Governing Board? What working arrangements were included in the tender? What amounts are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u48	Mr President, I have about the same questions, but with a different approach. After all, the same thing has come to my attention. I'm really freaked out. It is about the evaluation of the care centres that we have just talked about and of which the whole committee, like myself, is a big fan. This evaluation has always been carried out in close cooperation with the ICRH and also with Ines Keygnaert, who is associated with it. The latter is not just anyone, she is a teacher of sexual and reproductive health as well as head of the Gender & Violence Team, which carries out the research lines on sexual and gender-related violence, harmful cultural practices and sexual and reproductive health of migrants and other vulnerable groups. Since 2006, it has coordinated several research projects, developed many policy guidelines, intervention and training manuals. In addition and very important, she also vouched for the scientific evaluation report pilot project Care Centres after Sexual Violence (ZSG). I also hear that the institute will remove this evaluation from Keygnaert's team and assign it to the NICC, without any public tender or justification. I have reservations about that. What is the motivation to remove such an evaluation from a team that has been responsible for this for so long, and which, by the way, is doing a good job? That's throwing away years of expertise. I would like to know the reason for the decision to entrust this to the NICC. It strikes me that things are quite easy to get to the NICC. Please explain, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u49	At the end of December 2021, the agreement on cooperation with UGent ICRH around the ZSG was terminated annually and the UGent ICRH had an important role to play during the pilot phase. I would also like to thank the ICRH for the contribution it has made. In the meantime, we are at the stage of the structural embedding of care centres in national policies against sexual violence. In support of this process, my services have sought a sustainable approach to reporting and a quantitative in-depth analysis of the data recorded by the healthcare centres. With a view to a long-term vision, I have chosen to cooperate with the NICC, a federal agency that has developed years of experience and expertise, including in scientific research and data analysis on sexual violence, forensic research and the collection of traces of sexual crimes. This cooperation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 30 (2) of the 2016 Public Procurement Act. The agreement of cooperation with the NICC was approved by the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of the Institute. This cooperation costs the institute 80,000 euros a year. In other words, the budget for this agreement is lower than that foreseen in the annual agreement with the Ghent University ICHR. The NICC will also carry out additional tasks, including a thorough analysis of the variables recorded. On the basis of these elements, I am convinced that it is a good decision to enter into this agreement with the NICC.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, this is really a new political culture: I like something and I decide. Madam Secretary of State, I note that the law on public procurement is there to counter arbitrariness. You may find a loophole, but that's not proper governance. I would once again urge you to be transparent if you want to be taken seriously, which was difficult just now, because you had the wrong answer to the wrong question. If you really want to strengthen your words of transparency, make sure that you are working with a market consultation and that you can inform Parliament of that consultation. Then you can prove your motivation about your 'choice', a word you have just used here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u51	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I must admit that something is not quite right here and that it smells like underlying motivations, which you have not told us here. It is nice that you thank the ICRH and Mrs Keygnaert in your reply. I don't think that's gonna be enough for her. If I have understood correctly, they themselves are taken without knowledge. I know one thing very well. That is that the succession and all the things you mention here and they should be done, were indeed done by Ghent University. The reason why that change comes immediately, just because you think the NICC would do better, doesn't convince me at all. However, this is probably being prosecuted again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u52	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the National Action Plan against Racism was supposed to be ready on the 20th anniversary of the Durban Conference, but that deadline has now expired. In your policy paper, we then read that the plan would be completed during the autumn of 2021. When discussing your policy paper, we finally heard that you hope that the plan can be adopted by 2022. In the meantime, racism, discrimination and violence continue in our society. In our view, therefore, the action plan cannot come soon enough. Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of this national action plan? Are you committing to a deadline? The date of 21 March is approaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u53	Mr President, since my questions are largely in line with those of my colleague, I shall refer to my question as tabled. "Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it has been more than 20 years since successive governments promised us an inter-federal plan of action to combat racism. It is also one of your commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u54	Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the national action plan to combat racism? Could you move forward with an estimated completion date? Are differences in visions of integration between regions effectively delaying the development of this plan? How do you explain the delay in finalizing and implementing the plan with regard to a timing that you yourself have announced? What is the status of the concrete proposals for political texts that you announced last June?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your questions. More than 20 years after the Durban Conference, as you have just pointed out, Belgium is finally moving forward on this issue. However, given the inter-federal nature of this plan, the adoption process is lengthy and tedious. Indeed, although I welcome the involvement of the various political actors in setting up an ambitious plan to combat racism, I also note that different political sensitivities are expressed. The process of finalisation, which will also be the expression of these different sensitivities, therefore requires more time than was originally planned. As regards the technical part of the plan, the different working groups are currently ready to implement the strategic objectives set out in the launch note of 25 September 2020 in concrete actions. I would also like to stress the involvement of civil society in the creation of this plan. The involvement of field associations is important to me and it is for me that they have been involved. Political negotiations are under way to determine the final structure of the plan. Once all the proposals for texts have been validated, we will adopt them as a whole. As foreseen in the Government Agreement, a timetable for the implementation of the various measures will be an integral part of the plan. You will understand that this deadline does not depend on me alone. Please be aware that I continue to work hard with all the governments of the country to ensure that this process is completed. My wish, of course, is for an interfederal plan to come soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, racism and discrimination are, of course, major problems. Belgium is not the best student in this field. We therefore hoped that, in the context of 21 March, the International Day Against Racism, we could announce a plan to the many organizations in this area. I'm disappointed you can't set a deadline yet. We sincerely hope that this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. First of all, I wanted to pay tribute to your voluntarism on this issue in order to address the structural problem of racism and to involve civil society in this process. However, I would like to point out that Unia had also stressed the importance of involving academics in the development of this plan at all key stages of its development. However, I remain concerned about the delay in translating your words into action. I think the best intentions are worth it only if they are put into practice. Your Government's agreement, in relation to this inter-federal action plan against racism, was very clear. He spoke of a forward-looking plan, with measurable objectives and a timetable for implementation, but also a concrete definition of responsibilities. It also provided that the necessary resources should be guaranteed for each action. Today, the question remains as to what is blocking. You mentioned different political sensitivities. We still don't know what. On the content as such? On what measures? Is this blocking observed at the level of the financing of the measures? However, it is known that this funding reflects the feasibility and thus the practicality of these same measures. The question remains, and I would like to regret it. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts and convince your partners around the table. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the need to accompany this plan with a body monitoring its implementation. This, too, is a major demand from Unia. Who will perform this role? Will it be an ad hoc body or the Anti-Racism Law Evaluation Commission, which already provides important work today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u58	Madam Secretary of State, the 2022 budget provides for an increase of 1.1 million for Unia. We received the people of Unia in Parliament on 19 January and they explained their functioning. We have also asked for funding. They made a few comments. Firstly, it is relative that the budget is structural. So that it would really be, it must be embedded in the basic dotation of Unia. It doesn't seem to be. Secondly, the amount is not indexed, as opposed to the basic amount. At the same time, Unia was imposed a linear saving of 90,000 to 150,000 euro less for Unia. Why didn't you choose to increase the basic financing of Unia and include it in the basic donation? What do you think of Unia's theorem that linear savings would not be legal? How is the discussion between the cabinet and Unia, to which they referred?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u59	The increase for Unia was based on budgets available through the budget for new initiatives validated by the Council of Ministers of 20 October 2021. Those new fees were included in the budget notification when drawing up the initial budget for 2022. On the first page of the budget notification it is clearly stated that all amounts are structural, unless otherwise stated. For Unia, these new amounts are indeed structural. At the Ministerial Council of 23 October 2020, it was decided to make linear savings for all federal administrations and public institutions receiving federal funding. Discussions are currently under way between the Secretary of State's Office for the Budget, my cabinet and Unia to examine the possibility of not applying this decision so that Unia can be immunised, given the very specific nature of this institution, in particular through the cooperation agreement laying down the rules for financing. The final decision is expected for the next budgetary control. You will notice, Mrs Vindevoghel, that I am trying to do everything I can to support Unia properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, I assume you do want to do everything you can, and now that we have heard these people here, we know very well how important they are as a human rights organisation, in view of the major problems of discrimination. They have shown with many examples how necessary they are. That is why they must also have sufficient resources to tackle discrimination and inequality. In any case, I hope that the savings will not be made and that Unia will retain the resources it needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u61	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u62	Mrs Vindevoghel, the MeToo movement, the testimonies on social media and documentaries such as BOOS show the extent of gender-based violence, in particular violence against women. The facts illustrate that everyone can be affected, regardless of the social class, gender, profession or clothing. The Communities are responsible for the media. The National Action Plan (NAP) gender-based violence is based on the Lander's plans and complements them. I have extended the concept of public space to all areas and places accessible to the public. Sexism in public space is all too often reduced to street harassment, but public space indicates both a defined physical place and places for social interaction. Consequently, the concept also refers to online facts or media. In particular, we have committed ourselves to identifying public and private initiatives to combat sexual harassment in public space and to making them accessible through a register. On violence online, I am working on a federal plan to combat digital sexual violence in cooperation with the relevant ministers. That plan will provide for cooperation with telecoms and social media companies in the fight against sexual violence online. I also intend to review the 2014 law, which aims to combat sexism in public space. Hopefully these actions will help to ensure good cooperation in all areas, in this case also with the Ministers of the Media of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, much remains to be done and I welcome the initiatives you will take. In the Dutch-language press, Tom Lenaerts' fiction series Two Summers rekindles. Today, too, we are once again seeing how this kind of violence is underestimated, in order to prove the interview with Tom Lenaerts in De Standaard today, who is very much relativising the rape scene in the fictional series, saying that it should not be written black and white, but rather a little grey. We continue to clash with the problem that such violence is not taken seriously. I expect something from your initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u64	Madam Secretary of State, in your policy paper you write about the importance of training medical staff to be able to handle intra-family violence, domestic violence and female genital mutilation correctly. Also in your National Action Plan (NAP) against gender-based violence, you rightly emphasise the importance of this and state in key measure 51 that you will strengthen the training of medical staff. Both in the discussion of your policy paper and in the exchange of views on your national action plan, my party asked a question that has not been answered so far. In the column for the budgetary impact of measure 51 we read: budget okay. However, we do not understand how this budget is good. When we include the budgets of health, we read that 15% is saved on the training of medical staff, with the only explanation being linear savings. How will key measure 51 be financed, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the NAP pays great attention to the training of all professional sectors in contact with victims. For me, this is an essential issue if we are to combat gender-based violence effectively and sustainably. It is clear that these instruments will also be directed at the medical professions. The implementation of the NAP measures is the joint responsibility of the policy makers concerned. The NAP shall indicate the ministers or State Secretary involved in the implementation of each measure. When I come back to measure 51, you can read in the NAP that this is a commitment of the Minister of Health. Its commitment concerns both the implementation and the financing of the measure. I therefore invite you to ask my colleague about the further details of his approach. I will ensure that these and the other measures in the NAP are properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u66	Madam Secretary of State, the ball is played from one ball to another. This is a linear saving of 15%, as mentioned in the budgets of Health. If we do as you say, I fear that savings there will be a problem. Then these are words and not action on the matter. We will continue to intervene on this issue, including with the Minister of Health. It doesn't match your promises to do something about that when there is also a linear saving for the medical staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Safai's 55024529C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, on Thursday 20 January 2022, the follow-up study on the reception of victims of intra-family violence was published on the website of the P Committee. The report provides an overview of the assistance and guidance for each step of the procedure that victims of intra-family violence go through when they apply to the police. Although the report outlines some very clear positive developments in the process, there is also significant scope for improvement. For example, the saddest passage in the report is a description of a single commissioner where all victims of intra-family violence are dismissed, unless they can present a medical certificate to the reception. That is, of course, completely against the procedure and a serious misconception of the victim. In other steps of the procedure, too, insight into the process and the situation of the victim sometimes seems to be lacking and the existing training offer does not translate sufficiently into better guidance. However, the cooperation with the Care Centres after Sexual Violence is described as positive and is described as something that can further improve the counselling of victims. Of course, that's very nice news. We all know that by the end of 2022 a care centre will be active in each province. Madam Secretary of State, have you been able to take note of the P Committee's report on tackling intra-family violence? How do you assess that report? Do you agree that after Sexual Violence the Care Centres can make a greater contribution to a better reception and support for victims of sexual violence? I believe that this is the case. Can conclusions already be drawn from the functioning of the existing care centres on cooperation with the police and on how to improve this cooperation? This seems to us to be a crucial point, especially after reading the report of the Committee P. Are there any other measures you would like to take or might take in response to the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u69	Madam Secretary of State, we have recently been able to read the findings of an investigation conducted between February 2019 and June 2020 by Committee P, concerning the reception of victims of domestic violence in local police areas. This investigation follows on from the recommendations made by the Committee in 2015 to improve the reception of these victims and establishes their status. The new conclusions are no more gratifying: the absence of a police officer of reference in our police areas, refusal to act on certain complaints, a flagrant lack of training and awareness, poor cooperation between the police and external actors, etc. Among the recommendations of the 2022 report was the need to improve police training and raise awareness of the issue, as well as to systematize collaboration with specialized external actors by applying the ministerial circulars to the letter. Your plan to combat gender-based violence 2021-2025 targets these issues quite clearly. In addition, the motion for a resolution on the fight against domestic violence, which was debated in the House a few months ago, contained several avenues for reception in police areas. Madam Secretary of State, what will be your priorities and what will be the timing of the implementation of the NAP's priorities to improve the reception of victims of domestic violence by the police? In collaboration with the Minister of the Interior, how will you implement the recommendations made by the P Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u70	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Committee P has made public its follow-up report on the care of victims of domestic violence. As Ms. de Laveleye recalled, the initial study was published in 2015. New analytical work was done between February 2019 and June 2020. It compiles the results of 23 interviews with police officers and 12 with specialized actors in this field. The findings are intriguing. Thus, the degree of training questions. As a result of the freedom to participate or not, continuing training in this field is rarely followed. Another problem is that the requirement for zones to designate a focal point for domestic violence is not always applied. Finally, in some places, as my colleague Mrs Jiroflée has pointed out, the mere fact of filing a complaint is difficult. From this point of view, one cannot help but think of the accusations made a few months ago against a bartender in the cemetery in Ixelles, from which we learned last week that he had not yet been heard at this stage. I've already called the Minister of the Interior. On that occasion, she reminded me that measures had been set out in the recently adopted National Plan of Action against Gender Violence, which also provides for a monitoring committee to follow up on it. Madam Secretary of State, have you been aware of the recommendations made by Committee P in its report? How do you envisage the response, particularly on the basis of the national plan of action? Have the Supervisory Committee and/or the Interdepartmental Working Group met within the framework of this dossier? If so, what was the outcome of the meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I have of course taken note of the report in question, which has not surprised me but has really strengthened my conviction that it is essential and urgent to move forward on the issue of training professionals in contact with victims. It should be borne in mind that this is an important aspect of the plan to combat gender-based violence to which you have all three referred. The Federal Government, prior to the publication of this report, had already committed itself to strengthening the information, awareness and training of police personnel on the need for adequate and appropriate reception of victims of gender-based violence in order to avoid secondary victimization. I think we can really recognize the huge step forward that this commitment represents. This report shows the need for it to be included in the plan that was adopted a few months earlier. A whole series of measures in the plan therefore responds to the recommendations of the report. The plan provides, for example, for the development, continuation and strengthening of basic training and ongoing training of police on gender-based violence, as well as for the implementation of COL 20/2020, which concerns the review by the police services of victims of violence between partners who have filed complaints. Within the framework of basic police care, the plan provides that each police officer must be able to provide adequate reception for victims of domestic and conjugal violence. These services must be available 24 hours a day. In this context, the police zones also undertake to guarantee the transfer to the specialized services. These are just some of the actions included in the action plan. I will closely monitor the implementation of these actions, through the new monitoring system that I have developed under the NAP. As a reminder, my role is to coordinate the NAP. The implementation of the measures of the plan is the individual or joint responsibility of the federal State and the federated entities. The plan shall include, in particular for each measure, the ministers or secretaries of State concerned by their implementation. The status of these measures will be reviewed within the interdepartmental group in which Minister Verlinden's office participates. Collaborations during the plan development process have been constructive and will continue as part of the plan's implementation. With regard to the follow-up to the report of Committee P, I understand that you have already questioned the Minister of the Interior, and I therefore believe that it is essentially on his side that follow-up should be carried out. Of course, I coordinate with her in a privileged way with regard to these aspects. I'll be at the care centers. All the sex inspectors in the care centers went through a screening and followed a specific training course of several days. Each care centre shall ensure that a sex inspector is permanently available to victims who wish to complain to the centre. This operation and the multidisciplinary and holistic cooperation between the police, the hospital and the public prosecutor are both felt very positively by the victims and the actors involved. In conclusion, I think we are on the right track to move forward, but this report shows that there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I agree with you. A lot of business is going well and you are really on the right track with the NAP. I hope that this cooperation between the various services will take shape more and more. I remember what you said about developing and strengthening police training. That's a must. The report by the P Committee shows very clearly that it is going well in most places. The people who work in the care centers and also the police are doing very well, but there are still a few, not rotten, but still remaining apples in the basket. In this sense, the development and strengthening of this training is particularly important. A second element that is very important to us is to reconnect after people have spoken to us. Whether they have filed a complaint or not does not matter, but re-contacting the family is particularly important. A third important element is alertness when children are involved. Whether they share the blows or not, children are always the victims. It is therefore particularly important that the police pay attention to this. I was shocked when I read the report. If people have to have a medical certificate before they can be heard, then I wonder whether there is even a single moment in that Commissioner's question as to whether children are involved or not. That's what I care about. These three elements are particularly important, but I know that you pay attention to them. I wish you every success in the further implementation of the NAP and in cooperation with the various actors, especially the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u73	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. For our part, my colleague Julie Chanson also questioned the Minister of the Interior. It came quite quickly after the report was released and the Minister of the Interior was rather meticulous and cautious. She said that she had just become aware of it and that it still required time to refine the political response she could make in that regard. This being the case, she obviously agrees with you that efforts still need to be made in terms of training and motivation of police teams. I must not tell you that we already have three femicides this year, when we are barely at the beginning of February. I don't know in detail all the cases and I think not all the cases were known to the police, but we know that this is often the case. It is known that the scope for improved management and monitoring remains extremely important. For me, who sits in a police area in the Brussels Region, I know that more than training, I feel that sometimes we still have to work on raising awareness of the reality of gender-based violence in police areas. I am not saying that the police are all poorly trained or not aware, but this is still a real priority. I still hear the police force say that they cannot manage all priorities at the same time. This priority is central. I know the NAP puts it forward. The Minister of the Interior will be careful to follow these priorities. I really think that with the federal government and with the goodwill of the federated entities, this movement will become more important in the years to come. You have our full support to continue to put all your energy on these priorities, including with the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. In particular, I have focused on the issue of training, which is very important to me. But I could have taken many other examples from this report: the misuse or lack of use of the ad hoc forms, the problems of representation, the lack of knowledge of external partners that can help in the situation. Of course, these latter problems often stem from initial deficiencies in training. Moreover, if the evolution between 2015 and 2019-2020 is not satisfactory, the difference today is that we have had a tool since the end of 2021, namely the plan you mentioned. It must enable us to take a decisive course in our fight against gender-based violence. I am therefore optimistic that the next audit on this subject in a few years will yield much better results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u75	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, on 2 February 2022 an article was published in Het Laatste Nieuws in which labour economist Stijn Baert once again confirmed what has long been known: the Belgian childless single is a champion in paying taxes within the OECD. OECD figures show that a single worker without children is subject to a tax burden of as much as 52%. Of every 100 euros that the person earns, 52 euros go to the government. When that childless single dies, his heirs also pay sky high inheritance taxes. In addition, a childless person can often have less or no social benefits at all. In general, childless singles are not so much confronted with legal discrimination as with scale disadvantages. Our group has therefore repeatedly advocated the introduction of a single reflex. This should ensure that childless singles are not disproportionately disadvantaged in the introduction of new policies than households with children. During the discussion of your most recent policy paper, you acknowledged that, I quote from the report, "singles indeed experience a scale disadvantage in relation to people who have a relationship. The integration of a single reflex into policy decisions can be considered." You also indicated that it was something you mentioned to Unia at the time. I have a few questions for you on this. What specific policy remit have you given Unia in relation to childless singles? Have you worked on a list of the scale disadvantages experienced by childless singles? If not, will that happen in the short term? Will you also involve the Länder and local authorities, since the problem of scale disadvantages also arises at these levels of policy? Have you done any work on the introduction of a single reflex? If so, what actions have you taken? If not, when will that happen? In what time do you intend to go out with concrete measures that will help to eliminate the scale disadvantages experienced by childless singles? Will you put the approach to the problem into an action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u76	Mrs De Jonge, I am very well aware of the issue, as I mentioned in the past. On 1 January 2021, according to Statbel's statistics, there are almost 1,800,000 singles in Belgium. Statbel also tells us that there are 500,000 single parent families, of which just over four fifths are single women with children. I don't want blind spots in the anti-discrimination policy. Currently, the protective criteria of civil status or social origin may apply to childless parents. The evaluation report on the current legislation on discrimination will reach me in a few weeks' time. In this context, I will certainly also analyse what further legislative initiatives can be taken in relation to this particular target group. Problems of discrimination against single people without children, they are questions that are regularly addressed by Unia. In several studies, Unia investigated the situation of single people, for example in the housing barometer showing that the housing stock is not separate, neither for single people nor for families with children. Unia also regularly deals with complaints or interplays of single people who, in addition to access to the rental market, also point to the problem of the surcharge imposed by almost all tour operators on persons travelling alone and which, in my view, is a form of discrimination based on civil status. The additional resources I allocate to Unia will increase the capacity to receive notifications. In addition, there will be a second version of the improvising equality data collection in Belgium, a research project carried out by Unia. I also asked the centre to consider the bourgeois state criterion. However, I would point out the difference between cases of legal discrimination for which Unia is competent and socio-economic disadvantages in general. Tax differences are often cited as examples. Those are clearly transversal issues. I invite you to also ask the other federal, regional, common or EU ministers concerned with this issue. I will also contact Minister Van Peteghem myself to include this with his services and see how the bourgeois state can be taken into account in fiscal policy and what mechanisms the scale disadvantages can be overcome. Finally, it is, of course, also appropriate to remain vigilant about other trends. For example, singles are also affected by the individualisation of rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u77	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I understand that on the basis of a number of work documents, you will carry out an analysis in order to avoid such discrimination and, above all, the scale disadvantages, and that you will investigate them further. I look forward to the reports that will come out of it. We must be aware of these scale disadvantages. Singles must also carry the rent of a house alone, just like energy costs and so on. In many cases, this leads to difficult situations. It is therefore important to investigate this extensively and to get Unia's reports and investigations on the table. I also welcome the fact that you will be in contact with the various colleagues in the government, especially Minister Van Peteghem, who will also have to conduct the necessary investigations in this area. Of course, we must remain vigilant, and I fully support that. I also call for the various regions and communities to sit around the table to see if efforts can be made to integrate this single reflex into our policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u78	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr de Caluwe's 55025000C, 55025015C and 55025042C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u79	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as you know, unfortunately sport and in particular football is often the scene of racist and discriminatory events. Racist comments against a coach such as against Mr. Kompany a few weeks ago, anti-Semitic songs in December, racist statements by an athletic coach in November or other anti-Semitic songs after a football match earlier in the year are some examples of racist facts that can be seen in stadiums. If after each incident sanctions are taken, they would seem ineffective, at most symbolic. Do you intend to devote a specific component to sport in your plan to combat inequalities and discrimination? What measures and sanctions do you recommend in this regard? You said in December that you wanted to cooperate with the Pro League on this. Have you had any progress or encounters? What contacts do you have with Minister Verlinden on this matter? But I guess some of the measures in your plan will come back to that. You also stated in December that you wanted to attack the hate speech of the supporters. England recently announced its intention to sanction these acts with a stage ban of up to 10 years. What do you think of this measure? Could you propose it to your colleague Mrs Verlinden?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u80	Mr Moutquin, thank you for your question. The National Action Plan against Racism, which is in the final stages, includes a specific component dedicated to the fight against racism and the promotion of diversity in sport. This component is divided into a number of objectives, including improving the mechanism for reporting, reporting or dealing with racism in the sport community. Since sport is a competence of the federated entities, it will of course be up to the federated entities to implement the measures provided for in the plan. The day after the racist incidents you mentioned, my firm contacted the Pro League to take action to combat racism and discrimination in the world of football. From the outset, the Pro League declared itself an ally in the fight against racism and enthusiastically welcomed my proposal. At the same time, contacts were also made with Verlinden to consider the consequences of this incident in terms of political action. As regards the progress of the project with the Pro League, contacts are under way at a steady pace. The results of these exchanges will be forthcoming. I fully agree with you on the need for these measures to be effective. At the outset, I therefore expressed the wish that this project should become a permanent anchor in the fight against racism in football, that it should reach a wide audience and that it should seek to change in depth the unacceptable behaviour of certain supporters. Not "anti-racism washing" in the measures we are going to put in place here. I'm committed to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u81	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I have no doubt at all about your will for concrete action. That is what will guide the plan. I believe that indignation over racist acts that are repeated in our society can no longer suffice. I count on you and I trust you for that. Another thing that struck me was that when these cases were publicized, the authors often justified their racist remarks by explaining that they were taking place outside a racist framework. For example, saying that blacks are afraid of white runners, according to the author of these comments, is not racist. This shows the extent to which there is also a pedagogic work to be done in relation to what racism is. I know that your office is attentive to the history of our country and knows how often racism is rooted in our speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u82	Madam Secretary of State, you have communicated on this subject and I thank you for it. A few days ago, Haron Zaanan, a model, influencer and entrepreneur, was invited to cover himself or to leave a restaurant in which he ate, because his outfit – a beautiful dress on the other hand – was deemed "inappropriate" by a waiter. Following the outcry caused by the broadcast of the recorded video, the restaurant apologized for making several excuses for the server's intervention, such as winter conditions – perhaps they feel in the restaurant? – or the standing of the restaurant. It is a bit a shame to apologize to justify a behaviour which, unfortunately, is not justifiable. However, since other clients were dressed in the same way, it would appear that the true reason for the server's intervention was more related to the person wearing the dress and not to the dress itself. Despite your support and of course my support for Haron Zaanan, this event is not an isolated case. Transphobia is present in our society and affects the public on a daily basis, whether in the Horeca, at work or in school. Most of these discriminatory acts or attacks are never buzzed in the media, but they are a reality experienced by the victims. Madam Secretary of State, Rainbow House calls for better information from commercial establishments on the legal framework for gender and discrimination. I can rest my question in writing. Do you have any figures on transphobic assaults and discrimination in recent years? What are the government's advances in the fight against transphobia? What about the future SOGIESC plan? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u83	Madam Secretary of State, I am not going to go back to this unacceptable new transphobic act that my colleague Simon Moutquin has just described. The media covered him widely and rightly. Haron Zaanan, that is his name, was this victim of this new transphobic act, which obviously revives the debate on this phenomenon. In particular, Haron Zaanan met Philippe Close, the mayor of Brussels, but also more recently Elio Di Rupo, Walloon Minister, to discuss the situation of LGBTQIA+ in Belgium. As a reminder, in 2020, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men recorded 11% complaints of discrimination against transgender persons. Unfortunately, the story of Haron Zaanan is only one of so many who, unfortunately, are very often ignored in our country. The need to take concrete measures to combat such discrimination must remain a priority more than ever. Madam Secretary of State, as you know, the Brussels government, through its Secretary of State Nawal Ben Hamou, has just adopted its plan to include LGBTQIA+ people. This will be my first question: could you tell me what is the status of the SOGIESC action plan, which you said you wanted to achieve this year, and which is precisely aimed at stepping up the fight against discrimination? Are there any ongoing consultations with federated entities in this context? As you also indicated, the priorities of the future plan should be focused on federal issues, namely safety, health and inclusiveness. Efforts should be made in this context, including to improve the handling of complaints at the police level. Here too, and this will be my last question, could you tell us what he is doing in consultations with your colleagues, including Minister Verlinden, and Minister Vandenbroucke, in this very specific framework? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u84	Thank you gentlemen Moutquin and Prévot for your constant attention to the fight against LGBTQI phobias in our country. I also share your feeling of indignation at the injustice suffered by Haron Zaanan. This is totally unacceptable. Transphobia in public space is a permanent scourge. In 2021, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men published the survey "YouToo? The European Commission has been working with 4,500 Belgians. The figures speak for themselves: 53% of the transgender respondents report having been subjected to physical or verbal violence in the public space, and 3 out of 4 people do not go to the police after an attack. As we know, the case of Haron is far from being an isolated case. This violence is happening in every city and every sector of our society. With regard to the SOGIESC plan, in January the Council of Ministers approved the start-up note, which sets out, inter alia, the methodology for approving the plan, and I plan to adopt it before the summer. This plan focuses on the federal government's competencies, but will of course be articulated with the other action plans of the federated entities, which I welcome. I would also like to welcome the very recent adoption of the Brussels plan. Thanks to the new means released for equal opportunities by the government, civil society will be strengthened to enable it to carry out its indispensable missions to combat LGBT phobias. Consultations with Minister Verlinden's office on measures to support LGBTQI+ victims of violence are under way. I would also like to point out that the measures taken to combat gender violence under the Grand National Plan also concern LGBTQI+ audiences. They help to strengthen security, to combat sexual violence they may suffer or to combat the discontent that they may sometimes receive from certain professionals, particularly in police stations, as mentioned earlier. I always adopt an intersectional approach to the policies I pursue. The plans already adopted must therefore strengthen each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u85	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answer. I think you're doing the right thing. This is violence that exists in many sectors of society. I've heard a lot of politicians point a finger at the restaurant. Perhaps this was partly justified, but the reasons for the transphobic phenomenon are structural. When we hear that other customers in the restaurant have complained about the customer's behaviour, we can only see that pointing to a responsibility is not the solution, that these are phenomena diffused in the society to which we must give real answers. Financing and supporting civil society that is in contact with people who choose to express themselves through sexuality or gender is really the solution. LGBTQIA+phobias must mobilise this Parliament, whether in the framework of the Health Committee, the Committee on External Relations or the Committee on the Interior with Mrs Verlinden. All work must be done with the police to enable more complaints to be lodged under better conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u86	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. At the beginning of your speech, you recalled a few figures. When we hear them, we realize that, unfortunately, there is still a long way to go. Unfortunately, this new episode has been up to date in recent days, following which a restaurant has been pointed out. The staff of the institution in question were guilty of transphobic acts. In addition, the attitude of some clients who have offended Haron Zaanan's dress should be emphasized. More than ever, I consider that all physical or moral discrimination and violence remain unacceptable and must be combated, which is why the SOGIESC Action Plan is expected. I consider it positive that it will be adopted next summer. In any case, I hope that it will be a new tool to combat all these discriminations and that it will be equipped with binding means, particularly at the initiative of Minister Verlinden, so that such acts can be punished with due competition. I also hope that when they are more so, they will repeat less, until they are completely eradicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic692x.u87	Question No 55025042C by Mr Robby De Caluwé is postponed. Question No 55025087C by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question. Question No 55025105C by Mrs Eva Platteau is postponed.
