ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u1	On 4 April last, the Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft law granting new self-employed workers a reduction of EUR 100 in their social contributions for the first quarter. The funds come from a budget of EUR 6.8 million, allocated in the nuclear cabinet of 31 January 2022, to increase the purchasing power of the self-employed as part of the tax shift. What is your exact objective with the award of an amount of 100 euros per starting self-employed person? How many additional persons do you think you can encourage to start a self-employed activity? How much of the budget of EUR 6.8 million will be used for this purpose? Is an amount of EUR 100 not more symbolic than a real financial support for a starting self-employed person?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u2	Mr Verreyt, first of all you must know the context in which the tax shift is implemented. As you know, the main objective of the tax shift is to take a first step towards abolishing the special contribution to social security and the crisis tax, which dates back to 1994. Given the budget of EUR 5.1 million foreseen for the self-employed for 2022 and EUR 6.8 million as of 2023, I have chosen to focus my measures mainly on the primo start-ups. The aim of these measures is to increase the purchasing power of beginners as they often have to start their business in a difficult financial context. I would like to stress that the main objective of the measure is not to increase the number of start-ups. The aim of the measure is rather to reduce the social contributions of self-employed persons with low and average earnings. So I do not expect the number of start-ups to increase significantly. The estimates and calculations show that almost the entire budget of EUR 6.8 million will be used in the implementation of this measure. This measure is a symbolic support for the start-up self-employed and at the same time provides real, albeit small, financial support for the start-up self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that you agree with us on three points. Firstly, this measure is symbolic. Secondly, this measure will not convince many people to start an independent activity. Thirdly, the special contribution............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I therefore welcome your answer and the fact that you agree with us three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u4	Madam President, Minister, you will have noticed that the bill No. 2533 about compulsory vaccination in the care of your colleague Vandenbroucke has caused a great deal of swell. Minister Vandenbroucke will actually have self-employed workers working in the healthcare sector dismissed if they refuse to be vaccinated. Apparently, these self-employed people will be able to exercise a transitional right for one year to compensate. Are you planning additional compensatory measures as these health care professionals see their diplomas become worthless overnight? Will you provide additional bridging rights to those who opt for training in another profession for more than one year? Will you discuss this with the regions, for example, in order to frame these training courses? Do these people receive unemployment benefits after the expiry of the right to bridge 12 months if they have not found another job in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u5	Mr Creyelman, first of all I would like to make it clear that the draft law on compulsory vaccination against COVID-19 of healthcare professionals stipulates that every health professional, regardless of his or her social status, should have a vaccination against COVID-19 as a condition for obtaining and maintaining a visa or registration as a health care practitioner. As you also know, the draft law was adopted at second reading in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. In doing so, the entry into force of the bill is left to the King. In the event that, because of the suspension of the visa or registration, the health care professional, employed under a cooperation agreement as self-employed person, is no longer allowed to exercise his or her duties in accordance with the above-mentioned legal provisions, the cooperation agreement shall be terminated automatically. The same applies to self-employed persons who, without an independent cooperation agreement, pursue an independent health care profession subject to a visa or recognition requirement. In that case, the self-employed person may indeed fall back on the traditional right of bridging for a period of up to 12 months because of forced interruption. An extension of this period is not provided for, as we follow the classic rules for the right of bridging. A bridging right may be granted per fact only for a maximum of 12 months. In principle, self-employed persons are not eligible for unemployment, as this is not a branch of the social status of self-employed persons. However, for a long time there has been a scheme whereby selfemployed persons, if they satisfy the eligibility conditions of unemployment on the basis of sufficient working days during a reference period laid down by law, are eligible for unemployment. Finally, I would also like to point out that the government's draft law on compulsory vaccination for health care professionals is not at all intended to deprive carers of their jobs, quite the contrary. However, if our country were once again to be flooded by a corona wave, we would have to be ready to take measures to protect our people. The mandatory vaccination of the care staff will at that time be a more than important tool. However, the application of the vaccination obligation is not an end in itself. I therefore hope, undoubtedly together with you, that we will never have to take the royal decision that will bring this obligation into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u6	You say that you hope that it will never enter into force, but that is no guarantee that it will never enter into force. The draft No. 2533 may lead to a massacre not only in the case of workers but also in the case of self-employed care workers. They also lose their income and their diploma becomes de facto worthless. They are entitled to one year of bridging rights, which means that they have to retrain themselves completely, while still having to pay their social contributions. A self-employed person who opposes the possible withdrawal of his visa also loses his right of bridging. In my view, such matters are only seen in totalitarian regimes. Minister, I think you should talk to your colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke. He could not give me an answer to the question as to how this potential deficit would be remedied after these redundancies. Unless Minister Vandenbroucke intends to increase the shortage of care personnel with the adoption of the bill in the future, vaccination should remain a choice for us and not become an obligation. The same applies to the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic788x.u7	Questions Nos 55026951C and 55027358C by Mrs Houtmeyers, No 55026929C by Mr Vanden Burre, No 55027757C by Mr Vanden Burre. Van der Donckt are transformed into written questions.
