ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u2	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your explanations, reservations and sometimes history lessons, but I have not heard many questions that are addressed to me. Mr Verherstraeten mentioned that today we are talking about budgetary control of the 2022 budget. As there were few questions for the government and for me in particular, I will briefly explain this budgetary control of the 2022 budget and deal with some of the issues raised in the whole speech. When we drew up the 2022 budget, we all dreamed out loud of going back to normal situations, the end of the corona pandemic and an economic revival, which would put a difficult chapter behind us. Unfortunately, we find that we are moving from crisis to crisis, from the corona crisis to the Ukraine crisis. This last crisis brings with it an increase in energy prices, as has already been explained, and an unprecedented inflation. The rate of inflation in May is 8.97 %, which is the highest since 1983. All these crises have affected a lot of people and a lot of companies. Just as during the corona crisis, the government is taking everything out of the closet, as Mrs Depraetere said, to protect citizens and businesses. We are still focusing on technical unemployment and support for companies where this can be done. These are, of course, all political choices, and those political choices do indeed cost money. The choices made are incorporated into this budgetary control. In many cases, the government had no choice. With regard to the energy bill, we have taken measures to support families and we have also opted for solidarity with Ukraine. As Secretary of State for the Budget, I have, of course, been involved in the search for ways in which we could spend on the crisis, while at the same time making it clear that crisis expenditure must be as targeted and as temporary as possible. We have tried to integrate all these measures into budgetary control. The aim of budgetary control is always to give the most accurate picture of our country's financial situation. That situation is clear, I believe. This government has never made it clear that the impact of the crisis is enormous. At the end of the ride, financial support measures always cost a lot of money. As has already been said, the result is that this year's budget deficit has risen to 20.7 billion, while we naturally hoped that after the corona crisis we would be recovering from economic revival and that our public finances would move to better times. It is true that the country's situation was already bad for the corona crisis and for the Ukraine crisis. In the absence of a government with full powers, the structural deficit has begun to rise. No efforts could be made at that time. The medium-term challenges were not addressed either. New structural expenditures were approved with rotational increases. That is why, as we know, there is a major structural challenge in this country. I have always been very clear about the fact that we had to spend on the crisis and that its impact would be great. However, we must never use this as an excuse not to tackle the deficit. We do, too. We have created a structural path in the budget for 2022, and we have continued to monitor this with this budgetary control. That's what's going on, and we're sticking to it. We have a route for the coming months. It has already been explained here, there is a fixed annual component of 0.2 % and a variable component of also 0.2 %, or more if possible based on the economic situation. We're sticking to that. It has often been said that this would not be real budgetary control and that only the expenditure side would have been looked at. I would like to come back to what the Court of Auditors said about this. It has said that it is indeed a budgetary control and that the adjustment of revenue and expenditure has been looked at, that we have been monitored and monitored where we stand with the 2022 budget. I admit there's been a lot of spending. I've told you how that is, because of all this crisis spending. As Secretary of State for the Budget, I am not really happy with extra expenditure, but I think we all know, both the opposition parties and the majority parties, that there was a need for measures for purchasing power, for our citizens, for our businesses, as well as for support. I also believe that all parties here agree that we should give humanitarian and defence aid to Ukraine. I repeat, these are political choices. Those political choices cost money. Apart from the fact that we are dealing here with things that we do not understand, such as economic uncertainty, or matters that we simply have to do, such as crisis spending, we continue to carry on the usual work. So we are working on the budgetary path, as agreed in the budget. Mr Vermeersch, you asked how long we would continue to spend and when we would intervene. I agree with you all that the situation is serious. I've never put that under seats or couches either. We will indeed have to make every effort to say it in the language of Van Rompuy. We're all gonna have to do it together. I've never said anything else. We can't wait for it either. We have started with the budget format for 2023. That's really the time to work on that. We are indeed missing crucial buffers at the moment, which are really necessary to cope with the next crisis and to cope with the future challenges facing us, such as the whole green revolution, the climate crisis and the digitisation of our country. I agree with what the National Bank of Belgium has said very clearly. We need to build buffers for worse days. The dynamic budget path, which I mentioned earlier, has also been drawn up in this way. We are consistently making an effort. When things go well, we make an even greater effort. The most important thing for me is the stabilization of debt. If we have managed to stabilize the debt, we can carry it through. Then we can move towards a balance and reduce the level of debt as a whole. However, sticking a figure to that level of debt is very difficult. In normal circumstances, Europe is asking for a maximum of 60%. This is going to be a very long journey, but it is clear to everyone that the level of debt has to be reduced. I now turn to Mr. Van Hees, who's been away. With regard to the debt ratio and the costs of this debt, the Treasury has done a good job of ensuring that the interest rate is low for debts to date. But the interest rate has already started to rise and is currently around 2.3 or 2.4 %. This will already have a considerable impact on all debts. Therefore, in this budgetary control, an additional EUR 200 million was entered to pay interest. The spread between Belgium and Germany has increased from 36 to 60 since the beginning of this year. This will therefore have an impact on the interest rate that we will have to pay on all the debts that will be incurred in the future. To give you an order of magnitude, the interest we are already paying now amounts to €7 billion. These are huge amounts! And if the interest rate increases, the effect will be exponential. Finally, I am an optimist, like Mr Vanbesien, but we must also be realistic and take seriously the comments made by the National Bank of Belgium, the OECD and the European Commission. We must therefore continue to have the ambition to reduce the structural deficit, to stabilise public debt and to reform the country so that we can tackle the structural problems. I often call on the reform of the labour market, because I really think that is so important. This, of course, has an impact on public finances, but it is also simply important in the human field. What's better than having a job, what's better than being able to vouch for his existence, what's better than having social contact on the job floor? This is of course also interesting for public finances. We have calculated that 700,000 additional people would be employed if we went to an employment rate of 80%. This is still quite conservatively estimated to be an improvement in public finances of EUR 14 billion. Then we will have the space to tackle future crises and we will be able to fully support people and companies who are struggling. I have said this on several occasions, and that is also my mission within the government. With rising interest rates and high public debt, this is absolutely necessary to get our country back on track after it has experienced more than four years of adversity. This was first due to the government that had no leverage, because the budget that was on the table was not approved in 2019, and then by the exchange rates with which expensive measures were adopted. After that, our country was also affected by the corona crisis, but the government took its responsibility in very difficult circumstances and led the country through the corona crisis. As during the corona crisis, this government does everything it can to protect citizens and businesses during the Ukraine crisis. I know that some of you want to prove that this country does not work or would rather see it go down, but that is not my belief. It is my ambition and that of this government to get out of this and face these challenges in these very difficult times. There will undoubtedly be things that are going well, things that could run better and things that are not going well, but we take responsibility. That's part of the job. Of course, people who just stand aside or run away and do not take responsibility do not know the problem that sometimes things don't go the way they should. I will continue to pull and push to make public finances sustainable. I will continue to push and drive reform and I will continue to work to get this country in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u4	The order's turned around a little bit. I assumed that, as in previous budgetary rounds, you would be speaking at the very end. I have two observations. First of all, you say there are parties who want to prove that this country is not working. I think you're just proving that this country isn't working. Secondly, I think budgetary debates and debates are tout court important. We, as politicians, often talk side by side, and a debate gives us room for a real pulse to the true purpose. What is meant, very concretely, when certain words are used in a debate? I have already learned a lot in the discussion we had in the committees, but also today. For example, we have discussed for a long time what exactly is meant by 'buffers for the future'. For your government, that does not mean that there is free budgetary space. No, for your government, that means there's less deficit. So there's still a shortage, but one smaller. That's a buffer. I didn't know that. For me, that is a new definition of buffer, but it is important, if we do not want to talk side by side, that we know exactly what is meant. It is important not only to know how words are used, but also how data is interpreted. You refer to the hearing we had yesterday with the National Bank, where a graph on the debt was shown. You also refer to that as "a debt rising exponentially." It's important that you use that word here. Yesterday, the National Bank used the same word. Exponentially, that's not an innocent word. If you mean anything else, I would ask you to clarify that. After all, in debates it is important that we know the value of certain words. When I hear "an exponential rise in debt," I don't sleep comfortably. A third word that has received a definition is 'budget control'. I've always understood it differently, but now I might understand. I assumed something was being checked. Since this round, I understand that budgetary control is actually simply a matter of changing a few figures into a number of tables and then it has been adapted. I will perhaps rather use the word 'budget adjustment' in the future, because I do not see much control. Madam Secretary of State, you also say it in your reply: 'These are all political choices and they cost money'. In this round you have made new political choices and not just checked agreements made. You have decided to spend more money and not use it as a lever to speed up reforms. When's the first adaptation sheet due? In today's debate we have heard that there will be additional expenditure on fuel oil premiums and so on. You state that the budget set-up of 2023 will be launched by the summer. Last week, the Prime Minister said that at that start-up it will only be about the fixed budgetary effort of 0.2% and not about the rest. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u5	First of all, it is significant that the PS group does not give at home at this time in your reply. Mr Laaouej spoke of respect, but it seems that his group does not pay respect to anyone to listen to your answer. I said in my speech that it is only a question of whether your statements impress your colleagues. Your question was answered with this. We share some of your concerns. These concerns transcend the Flemish party boundaries. On the other side of the language border, however, there is no doubt about that, as you can see here. However, we could do more with better figures for our own people, but I explained this in detail in my speech. We called you an inflationary denier in December. You denied the impact of inflation on the budget. You called that budget-neutral. In the meantime, thankfully, you've come back to that. In February, I asked you questions about double digital inflation, two-digit inflation. You laughed then, but that 10% inflation is now frighteningly close. In the meantime, you also take note of this and of its negative impact on the budget. We are on the eve of an unprecedented economic crisis. Unfortunately, we have to note that there is no buffer left in Belgium to deal with this threat of recession or stagflation. Madam President, I shall begin the final part of my speech. I had noted two questions, identical to those of Mr Loones. In the meantime, is there any prospect of further budgetary adjustments? As regards the summer agreement, Mr Verherstraeten pointed out in his speech on the budget format of 2023. What's the status there? We found out last summer that you were behind the facts. It was clear before the summer that energy prices would rise and inflation increased, but your government waited until October to intervene for the first time. Will you continue to go behind the facts while all the economic indicators are on blood red? Or will you take action for the first time this summer? What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u6	My colleague Van Hees is no longer here and so I will repeat for a moment. It is clear that both N-VA and Flemish Interest are always calling for this budget deficit and are constantly calling for less spending and more saving. Madam Secretary of State, your discourse also worries me. You want to get the country in order, on the tracks. I did not get much explanation from Mr Leysen just now, but he also clearly called for savings. You say that a serious reform of the labour market is needed. That is the only reform you have referred to in your reply. I am, of course, concerned when I see how this reform of the labour market is taking place today. I see that more and more people want to work for bad wages and under poor working conditions. The work deal talks about 10 hours of work a day, about night work. That's gonna give more sick and inactive. In that sense, these plans could well fail. With us you can at least go for a completely different story. If you want a buffer, go get the money where it is. The millionaire tax, an asset tax, taxing the excess profits, if you want a buffer, if you want income, think about those slopes. Then there is the abolition of the wage standard and the freedom to negotiate wage increases back where business is doing well. And there are companies where things are going well. It is not only a good thing for our social security if wages increase, but also, above all, for people's purchasing power. Anyway, Monday we walked the street with 80,000. I think autumn's gonna be hot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u7	Perhaps I was not quite clear, Mr Loones. I'm heading for debt stabilization by the end of this legislature. The deficit has to go down in order to strike a balance in the next legislature or afterwards. Then there is surplus and buffers can be built. That is, of course, a discussion. I was talking about an exponential increase in interest charges. The effect of the debt depends on how strong the exponential increase is. There are two specific questions, such as the first adaptation sheet. We'll see what we need to do. At the beginning of the political year, we will start it. It's gonna take some time. That has to go to committee, is being discussed there. I cannot say exactly when that will be in the autumn. We've been working on budget 2023 for a long time. On a technical level, we're already looking into all of that. We've had a lot of IKW's. Of course, we're already working very hard on that. In the summer agreement we will have a firm effort, and I would also like to put variable efforts on the table. We'll see how far we can get with that last one. That's part of the challenge. The more we can discuss or start up in advance, so much better. That is the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u8	Do you also have a response to Mr Verherstraeten's proposal that the budget should be drawn up not for a year but for two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u9	From the beginning of this legislative period, we always have a multiannual plan for the budget. Of course, that is not the same as a budget, but it is certainly a good idea to do so for two years. I'll see how far we can go in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u10	This concludes the general discussion. We can move on to thematic discussions, starting with Mr Gilkinet's skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u11	Minister, you have promised heaven for the last two years in terms of rail policy: more trains in the morning, in the evening, in the week and on weekends, in the interior and abroad. In short, you promised a better offer everywhere and for everyone at the same time. Every ten minutes a train should leave in every direction in each major station and in the small stations at least twice an hour. You also promised to double passenger transport and freight transport. So your promises were magnificent. You also like to tell us that your predecessors have not baked anything of that. For 20 years, ministers of consecutive CD&V, PS and MR have been saving. That is the story we keep hearing from you, and it is precisely the parties you call in that story that applaud for it. That's always a strange story. As Emperor Augustus would restore the Roman Republic after a threatening dictatorship and the Carolingians carried through the renovatio imperii during the dark Middle Ages, Minister Gilkinet would roll out his own trace renaissance after the passage of the detestable, naughty MR ministers who preceded him. That was the plan of the sky storming in rail policy. What has happened so far, ladies and gentlemen? Let's go over it for a second. International passenger rail transport is in crisis. Thalys is in difficult papers; the low cost link between Brussels and Paris has been cancelled. The planned Flixtrain connection on the same route has not been established either. The support mechanism for night trains set up in the latest budget review remains unfulfilled for the time being, just when the majority introduced a flight tax on the grounds that the passenger can take the train, because there are enough international connections. Just at that moment, international connections are being cut off. The policy fails, because international rail connections are weakening. Freight transport is also in difficult paperwork. Full of enthusiasm and hope, the sector lived up to the announcement of the Minister's policy plans. A cross-sectoral policy plan within the framework of the Rail Freight Forum was worked out, where Minister Gilkinet himself expressed his full support for the outlined way of working and for the financial trajectory outlined at the closing session. Less than a year later, Minister Gilkinet himself put a knife in the back of the sector with his reform of subsidies for combined and distributed transport, to the shock of the sector. The result is that our national carrier Lineas is in great difficulty today. Those responsible leave, the numbers are pink. Here too, your policy fails. We can only hope that Lineas will stay alive, otherwise the freight transport, which is so important for the logistics of our ports, will be the cornerstone of our prosperity, also handed over to French or Germans, who knows. Were the promises on national passenger transport fulfilled? It is interesting to discuss this in detail. The green rail policy is based on two major dogmas. The first is that when trains are put in, passengers will follow. Hence the notion that each station must be operated by at least two trains per hour, even if that means that there are more trains than passengers. The second dogma is that if one gives more money, all problems disappear. Problems are the debt of savings, savings are bad and the adage is just to give more money. Now, among other things, hundreds of millions more have been given to SNCB and Infrabel to compensate for the covid effect, which is of course force majeure, but also 100 million for the Boost Plan, millions more for ecological soil management, 365 million under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and 250 million for the Recovery Plan. The government gives up completely carte blanche, masses of money for the railways, it cannot stop, so all the breathing space to make the green dreams come true. The result is that the invoices are not covered today. Despite a gift after a gift, the CEOs of the two railway companies say that they have EUR 3.4 billion in deficit to live up to the government's ambitions. For the first time in years, SNCB is increasing debts again rather than reducing them. For the green track there will never be enough money for the simple reason that there is no brake on dreams. In return, do we get the promised mega-offer from the railroad? No, the supply is falling due to staff shortages. Lines are abolished, connections suspended, the supply is reduced in the Flemish window. You promised growth, the supply is shrinking. Your policy is failing, Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u12	Minister, you did not write much about Brussels national airport in the government agreement. I think there are three rules in it, namely that you want to work out a solution to the problem of noise, remove legal uncertainty and make a balanced design of air traffic laws. Today we haven't gotten that far in that whole story. Budgetary control provides for a number of grants in the context of the continuous descent operations and the continuous climb operations. This has a direct link with the way in which you want to spread the noise in the future. For example, aircraft can be deployed later; this will reduce emissions and reduce noise pollution. However, when it comes to climbing, things are something else. Grants have been included in budgetary control for this purpose, but there are still significant obstacles to implementing measures in this respect. Each flight route from Brussels Airport has a certain height at which to start running. If you leave runway 25R and take the Ring route, you have to bend the bend at 700 feet in the direction of the Noordrand in order to avoid Brussels. This is not entirely compatible with what you are proposing here, namely the green take-off of aircraft. How do you intend to deal with this, so that your measures are consistent with the approved budget and the intention in the government agreement to resolve the problem of noise? As things stand today, these two things cannot be reconciled. You had a study carried out by Envisa, which has since been distributed and almost completely translated, so that it can also be provided to the Flemish municipalities in fine Dutch. We have, of course, already received some echoes about this study. For example, this study is mostly written from one angle of the story. Many reactions have already been received from Flanders. The big question is what steps you want to take to provide a supported solution to the problem. In a sense, the whole airport file caught fire when Isabelle Durant got his hands on it. You are the tenth Excellency to deal with it. On average, it takes ministers two years to survive the Mobility Post. In what way will you proceed with this, so that we can find a solution? Secondly, how do you propose to promote the airport more? According to all kinds of signals we're picking up, things aren't going well. I am, of course, counting on you as Minister of Mobility to take some steps forward. A while ago we talked in the Chamber about the installation of the entry-and-exit system at the airport. For passengers from outside the Schengen area, the airport seems to be becoming very uninteresting as a result of that system. For the time being, the government has not yet launched a tender for the necessary kiosks for electronic processing. The airport itself talks about delays of four to ten hours. As Minister for Mobility, you cannot be pleased that it is moving in that direction. Mr Minister, will you press the right buttons and hang on to the right bells to ensure progress? A story in which Zaventem airport has to be reduced and phased out, without anyone standing up for that second big engine of our economy, is, in my opinion, a wrong choice. That is why I look forward very much to your proposals and to the map you will draw.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u13	Mr Roggeman, thank you for your questions, Mr Wollants. I certainly do not share Mr Roggeman's pessimism, which I hear in committee every week. I never know whether Mr Roggeman is a defender of the train or not, whether he is for more goods by rail or whether he hopes for an ambitious future for rail. The coalition agreement contains ambitious plans for rail traffic. As a competent minister, I have been trying to achieve this for a year and a half, after years of savings and uncertainty about the future of the railways. That was indeed not easy with the covid crisis. There were a lot of problems. You referred to international companies like Thalys. Like any transport company, they have had problems because of the covid crisis, but they are now back. We want to offer a perspective for the track. We want to make rail the backbone of future mobility. For the first time in Belgium we have a Railway vision 2040 which indicates where we want to take the railways in the next 20 years. We are almost done with the new management contract, with a public service contract for SNCB, with a performance contract for Infrabel, with the resources needed and with many new things such as a better service for travellers and for our businesses. We are also working on a master plan for the transport of goods, with the ambition to double the volume of goods by rail by 2030. The government has chosen to invest heavily in rail, i.e. more than EUR 600 million of new investments in the port here in Brussels, to support the company Audi in Vorst, so that it can export the e-cars produced there and import all the raw materials needed to build those cars. This has a very important positive impact on our economy. When I speak to the VBO and to VOKA, I hear that they are asking parties, because the traffic jams in our country are a real problem. Yes, Mr. Roggeman, I assume. I'm working on this jurisdiction within the government. We have ambition for the train. We want to increase the modal share of the train, both for passengers and for goods. I am aware that this will take time and that it will require resources that are useful to our economy. As you know, investment in our infrastructure strengthens our economy and provides activity not only for railway companies but also for private companies that carry out the work. It'll take time. Investment times are indeed slow and long, but the prospects are clear and we are aligned within government with businesses. In the last committee where I was able to present the plans for future management contracts with railway undertakings, you yourself stressed - and I thank you for this - how long these documents were expected, since the last management contract between the federal state and SNCB, and its equivalent with Infrabel, dated 2008, 14 years ago. It is therefore time to put the train back on track, which I am doing with pride, enthusiasm and also with the support of the government, since already more than 1.7 billion euros have been invested in the train. We will give ten years' perspectives to our railway companies. As far as aviation is concerned, it is indeed not an easy dossier. Over the years, ten ministers have taken care of it and for 30 years the sector has experienced difficulties, but also those living in the vicinity of the airport who suffer from the noise of the aircraft. We need to strike a balance between the economic activities of the airport and the quality of life of its residents. That is why I am working on this in a systematic way. I have also launched a consultation platform with all municipalities, regions, economic operators and associations. That platform meets regularly and the last meeting took place on Monday. We're trying to get everyone on the same page. It's not easy, because everyone wants to take a plane on holiday, but nobody wants a plane above their head, especially a late plane that prevents good sleep. However, we work in a systematic way and in consultation. We've also had a study done by Envisa, a recognized study firm, and we've studied all the scenarios we've received. The same applies to that of the Flemish Government, following a court judgment which the Belgian State was obliged to enforce. As required by the judgment, the study was transferred to the judicial parties at a first stage on 1 June last. After that she was translated and then published on the website of the FPS Mobility. The very interesting content of this study is therefore no secret. I have also set up a technical group in which airlines, skeyes and my cabinet are represented. Together we try to find solutions to reduce the impact of aviation. We're also testing new techniques. As you rightly pointed out, with this budgetary adjustment, we have given skeyes a budget to study some scenarios. It's the fastest up, with take-offs that take the aircraft up faster. This is the longest time, with glider landings so that, when the planes approach our national airport, they do so with less impact on the populations overflying, and less energy impact. These are solutions that can improve the situation for all and deserve to be explored. We therefore gave skeyes a mission to study different scenarios, to measure the impacts on the populations overflying. Mr. Roggeman said that, with regard to the train, I did not have sufficiently large ambitions and that I had huge dreams. But I am working in discretion and just as really on the aviation file which is of rare complexity and which has been the subject of numerous legal actions against the Belgian State, with judgments that go in a variety of ways. I am therefore working on solutions, including by proposing alternatives to the aircraft. This is how we try to redeploy international trains and night trains, to propose alternatives to citizens for short-distance trips. Some projects have fallen somewhat behind because of the health situation, but also because of the international situation and the war in Ukraine. However, for the first time, a budget is planned to support night trains initiatives. From Brussels-Zuid you can take the night train to Vienna three times a week. I hope that more destinations can be offered to travellers in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u14	Minister, j e will give the floor to Mr Franken, but Mr Roggeman asks for a reply. We did not foresee this in the speaking times that we decided in the Conference of Presidents. It goes without saying that the last word always belongs to parliamentarians. I propose, however, to grant two minutes of reply, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u15	Minister, it is striking that you say that I want fewer trains and fewer goods on trains. That is ironic, because it is precisely your policy that weakens services. That's what we're gonna find out on a daily basis. Freight transport is in poor condition because of the reforms you have implemented, against all agreements with the sector. Services to travellers have deteriorated. Over 100 trains per day have been abolished in recent months. You're declaring that you're showing ambition. Reality is different. First of all, you don't have the money to realize your plans. After all, there is a deficit of EUR 4.5 billion despite the monthly budget increases. Secondly, you don't have any staff. The offer implodes. This is not a sustainable model. There are fewer trains in the Flemish Ruit. Antwerp, Brussels, Mechelen and Sint-Niklaas are all served worse. In practice, your policy means spending more money, but services have become weaker and more unreliable. Your policy fails because your dogmas are wrong. A supply-driven rail model doesn't work. There is no point in spending a lot of money to let empty trains drive around with a high frequency on a double track. Make choices, analyse the demand and expand the train supply where there is real demand for transport. Problems and policy difficulties do not disappear by throwing money at them. We need to tackle and reform these problems. A rigid structure like that of SNCB is not weakened by spending more money on it, just as one does not make a racehorse fitter by fattening the fat. Under a large pile of money one can perhaps hide problems temporarily, but this keeps them alive. Sooner or later, they're gonna come up again. In conclusion, I would like to quote a party: 'There is another way, Minister'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u16	Minister, the biggest problem is that you have not come much closer to a solution. Honour to whom credit is due, the last person who has been able to present an agreement, the group leader of CD&V will be happy to hear it, was Mr Schouppe. This was subsequently shattered by all the parties who had concluded that agreement, albeit in their capacity as members of the Brussels Government and so on. However, we will have to go back to an agreement. I have the impression that Envisa's study did not help, quite the contrary. There's a concentration model in there for a long time, and it's just gonna pick things up. You say it's a sensitive and difficult file. Uw voorganger zei: "Mr Wollants, it's very sensitive." I've heard it all before, but the question is where we're going with it. And I do not have the impression that we are taking steps forward. You say it's interesting to go to those continuous operations. I have a proposition for you. There are possibilities to hinder fewer people when it is possible to take off to higher altitudes. There's a lot of ground in there. It's used by a local family who's been here for some time. It has a very large domain. It's very sparsely populated. It's about the Royal House. There may be opportunities there, to ensure that there can be longer straightaway takeoff. This will reduce the burden on Brusselsers. That way, the Flemings won't get in the way. That's an option. Maybe you should try it sometime so that we can get on with it. Minister, I will certainly come back to this, but I want solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u17	Madam President, I am glad to be able to say something, because I was just on the last LN24 broadcast on Wednesday night. I would like to say three more things in the context of budgetary control, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. Firstly, I hope that there will be a breakthrough as soon as possible on the management of Brussels Airport. That chair has been empty for over a year. I hope that this can finally be dealt with. After my last appeal to Minister Clarinval in December, there will now finally be a solution for the empty MR chair. That is certainly what I have heard in the Rules of Procedure, but will there finally be a solution for the Chair? Perhaps you could take that dossier to the heart of the matter, because it is actually becoming embarrassing that there has been no President in this crisis period for a year. Secondly, I would like to make one more point about interconnectivity. You just said there's a night train that drives to Vienna three times a week. That's all good, but what about the interconnectivity at our airport itself? All the major bases in our neighboring countries, Schiphol, are the first to take enormous steps forward in terms of interconnectivity with the train. In my opinion, the only international connection from Zaventem itself is not from Brussels-South to Schiphol. Is it true that there is talk of limiting that connection to Rotterdam? Have you decided that yet? You have registered EUR 30 million for this year and EUR 40 million for next year for the aircraft tax. That money should still be used to improve those connections, so that people no longer have to take a plane in a 500 km radius around the airport. I support that. Mr Vanbesien, together we have written a resolution on airport policy and have it adopted unanimously in a period of ongoing business. We thought a long time about this and the N-VA and the ecologists found each other there. If you raise an aircraft tax, it is important that you use the proceeds of that money to make it easier for people to take the train within 500 kilometres. Now those connections are catastrophic, and you know it. We have not yet reached the ankles of Schiphol, Paris or Berlin. You have an important role to play in this. Thirdly, when you talk about Brussels-South, I really need something to say, Mr Vice-President. Please take a look at safety. Security to that station is a big issue. I do not know if you have followed it, but a British official who has been living here for some time has been robbed there and has then launched a petition on security in and around Brussels-South. I get reports about that a lot, that's a real problem. Brussels-South is becoming more and more the major hub, the major railway station, certainly internationally. Perhaps you can take initiatives so that it also gets the look of a large, international train station. Then you should also take a number of measures around that safety, along with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u18	Security is a priority, including in our stations. We are working on this with SNCB and the Securail service. The theme is also given wide attention in the future public service contract. That is already a well worked out part of the contract design. Certainly, in some stations it is less pleasant to stay. You mentioned Brussels-South, but the same applies to Brussels-North at certain times. We must resolve this, also in cooperation with my fellow Minister for the Interior. The connection of the airport to the railway runs with dozens of trains a day to Zaventem. At the moment, there are no international trains. That's a privatised activity, not a public service. In the past there were high-speed trains to Zaventem, but they were not a great success. This activity had to be subsidised or financed by the airport itself. That is not an easy model, as our airport is not very well placed opposite the railway. It is not Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris. It lies between Brussels-South and Paris-North. It's easy to make a switch there. It's not that simple in Belgium because our airport is not very well placed for historical reasons. Let me now turn to the Brussels Airport Presidency. I can't say much about that. That depends on the FPIM and the competence of the Minister of Finance. There are very good presidents at SNCB, Infrabel, HR Rail and skeyes under my jurisdiction. So far, there is no president for Brussels Airport. This does not prevent our very good relationship with the airport CEO and his team. They participate in the technical group I have set up to find solutions to the noise of the airport and the aircraft. That is not a real problem in the Executive Board for the Minister for Mobility. I am mainly the Minister of Trains, but also the Minister of Aircraft. I work as closely as possible with the partner that Brussels Airport is for the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u19	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much and also appreciate the fact that you are truly honest and sincere. That is what is needed in Parliament, and we sometimes miss it a little. It is very good that you indicate that Brussels-South must be a priority in terms of security and that there are many challenges in Brussels-North too. I'd love to hear you say it. Politics, however, is also about dreams. I dream to see you in October 2022 at the State of the Union of the current government with a chairman for the Brussels Airport Board of Directors. I dream of seeing you with a concrete plan, which shows how you will improve interconnectivity, especially for train journeys of less than 500 kilometres in this country. I hope to see you with an agreement with the Minister for the Interior on how to guarantee and improve security in and around Brussels-North and Brussels-South. I'm looking forward to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u20	Minister, thank you. I propose to move on to Mr Vandenbroucke, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u21	Madam President, I am afraid it is 10.15 p.m. We agreed this afternoon that the sitting would end at 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u22	We agreed to end the debate on budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u23	I am very sorry, but that is not the case. It is starting to bother me very much that agreements at the Conference of Presidents will not be observed afterwards. You know I was opposed to an end at 10:00 p.m. I am opposed to this for the reason we are now seeing it happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u24	Madam President, I think Mr De Roover is mistaken. We agreed that, as far as budgetary control is concerned, we would go to the finish line. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, we were also told that a reasonable end hour would be achieved. At that time it was agreed that, if it were very early and we would do something else afterwards, we would stop at 10 p.m. anyway. That's what was agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u25	I would like to point out that we made an agreement last week at the Conference of Presidents, namely that there would be no thematic debates. In fact, therefore, we are ready and can conclude the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u26	It was agreed that all ministers would be present. We said, out of respect for the ministers who would not be questioned, that we would let them know in advance which ministers they would question. In this way, those ministers for whom there are no questions would not have to remain permanently available. Those are the facts. Madam President, I would like to say once again that I am tired of this repeated talk about the interpretation of what was said a few hours ago. In fact, I would be very surprised if we were to reach a quorum.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u27	There is no need for a quorum for a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u28	Mr De Roover, I know that you are a good person when it comes to fixing things as they could be discussed at the Conference of Presidents, but I have a very precise memory that we are going to work on the budget at the end of the day, which obviously involves the thematic discussions. One cannot be done without the other. We would have stopped at 10:00 if we had finished the budget. With regard to the budget and the thematic discussions which are only one element, we could do so without the thematic discussions. In fact, we have already discussed these issues so much during the general discussion that we can wonder whether it is still useful for something. But the agreement was such. It's the budget, and if we finish at 10:00, it's over. But the budget has not been completed since there are still thematic discussions. I have a very precise memory of that. If it were otherwise, I'd tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u29	It is therefore clear from this discussion – I also ask the Registrar who was present – that it was indeed clear to everyone that we had today on the agenda the budget debate and that we were going to the end of it. But it is also true that everyone was thinking: "We have limited speaking times. We are going to limit intervention since it is a budgetary adjustment. It is therefore very likely that we have finished at 10:00 p.m. And if we still have time before 10:00 p.m., we will have more texts to consider." But it was never said that we would finish at 10:00 if the budget was not over. That was not at all what was contained in the agreement of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u30	Mr De Roover, I too believe that you are in good faith when it comes to respecting the agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents. I myself proposed last week that we finish at 10 p.m. and several colleagues, including Mrs Block and Mr Laaouej, asked for a discussion on the budgetary adjustment to the finish. I therefore agreed to this decision. In all honesty, this is what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u31	On the basis of this afternoon's agreements, I informed my group that the sitting would last until 10 p.m. as agreed. That means that those party members who wanted to speak will already come home and come back tomorrow to do what they are registered for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u32	Mrs Depoorter and Mr Van der Donkt are present, Mrs De Wit and Mr Metsu are absent. Can we at least move on to the subjects for which the speakers are present? I understand that there is dissatisfaction on the benches. Perhaps we could deal with the next theme? Mr. Minister is here. Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Samyn and Mrs Merckx are present, so perhaps we can continue to discuss the subject for which Minister Vandenbroucke is responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u33	I ask for the suspension and for a quorum to be established. Should we now ask for every meeting to apply Rule 42? We're not gonna throw all the rules overboard, are we? Madam President, I am in favour of correct and correct agreements. This means that a report will be drawn up soon after the Conference of Presidents' meeting, so that the agreements will also be adopted quickly. I was opposed to letting the sitting end at 10 p.m., because then what would happen now would happen. They want to avoid night meetings and the result is that we have two. I warned you about that weeks ago. Now happens what I've warned you about. I repeat that, if we decide here almost every time, depending on the agreements, which are flou and unclear, what is the rule rather than the exception, then we simply decide to proceed, that the quorum no longer counts, that the agreement should be understood differently around 22 hours, then in future you will have to end the Conference of Presidents by going over the arrangements as they have been made. Once again, I have communicated with my group on the basis of this afternoon's agreements, let them be flou and unclear. Now you're saying we're just gonna move on. I'm so sorry. Perhaps in the future you can listen to my suggestion to just continue until the finish line. We would have had a short meeting on Thursday, tomorrow. It is what it is, I deeply regret it, but it is no different.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u34	Apparently, there was still a majority who understood what I understood and what the Registrar understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u35	Madam President, indeed, I think that Mr. De Roover is right on one point. There's been some blur. Last week, it was said that it would be at the finish and, today, you did say 10:00 p.m. In my head too...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u36	There's no blur. It's at the end of the budget! Don't try to blur what's not. I can hear the political manoeuvre, but no, it was a question of making the budget today and reaching the end of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u37	Madam President, I'm sorry, but I don't understand why I'm cut, when you...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u38	You yourself say that we produce blur. That's not true! I'm not going to let that say!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u39	Madam President, I wanted to say something constructive. In the sense that Mr. De Roover rightly notes the blurring of this incident and that some colleagues may have already left. You are terrible! Could we not possibly have the debate with Mr Vandenbroucke who is here and agree on the debate to be held and possibly on the time to end? A concrete agreement must be reached. We are not going to have the debate with Mr Vandenbroucke and then start the discussion again. We've got to make a deal. I therefore propose to hold the debate with Mr Vandenbroucke...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u40	I am pleased that you are taking up the proposal I have just made, that is to say, to move forward with Mr Vandenbroucke's themes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u41	Madam President, we are not going to interfere in the well-naïve debate, but Mr De Roover is of course right when he says that the majority must be in number for a budget discussion. He certainly has a point. We support him if he wants to go through with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u42	As I read the Rules of Procedure, for a debate there is no need for a quorum as such. To debate, there is never a quorum. That is the case for voting. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u43	In what article do you find that a quorum is required for the debate? We're debating here. Why would a quorum be required? There is a quorum for votes, but not for the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the largest group here, I would like to make a proposal. Minister Vandenbroucke is here and all the people who are registered for the debate on Health are here as well. Then we can already have the debate on health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u45	Everyone is here for the debate on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u46	Madam President, last week the agreement was to go to the finish. Everyone remembers it. This noon, the agreement, obviously all the majority group leaders said, was to go to the end of the budget. The budget includes general discussion and themes. As for the quorum, as the Chair says, it applies to votes and not to debates. The concern of the majority is to relive for the themes what we have experienced today for the general discussion, that is to say, an endless debate that will again bring us to the small hours tomorrow. You must also understand the fears or concerns of the majority. How long will these thematic dossiers last? While if we put this behind us today, we could start another agenda tomorrow, which also includes large dossiers. Now I'm testing, but no one has to follow me because we're wasting time here too. If we postpone to tomorrow, what guarantees can we have that the thematic dossiers will not last for hours again? That is the problem. This budgetary adjustment must also be voted on. We're not going to be able to do another night tomorrow on the subject after we've exhausted the rest of the agenda. There's a whole series of other files. Is it possible to limit time by group? Above all, the problem is not so much the time for intervention but the interruptions. Fear is there too, Mr. De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u47	I agree, for example, that it was agreed before the discussions with the ministers that there would be five minutes' speaking time and two minutes for the reply. We have only had one round so far and there have been no intervening or intervening. I think it is logical and justifiable that they should not be allowed in the debates with the ministers. That means we can calculate it perfectly. If Madam President keeps this limit strictly with a descending clock, we can calculate almost every minute how long it would take. We only do not know the ministers' speaking time, which is unlimited. We know the speakers, too. I also agree that this list has been closed and that we are not going to supplement it because everyone will be fresh and well in the morning. I agree with all of that. I really hope that we will make clear agreements on this in the future. I can only repeat that I said a few weeks ago that if one stops at 22 o'clock, one is at risk of not having one but two evening sessions. I agree. The problem is, however, that the agreement made was flou, which is the least we can say, and that I informed my group. That is the situation we are currently in. Mr Anseeeuw has registered as a speaker and he is not here. I'll be incredibly supple, as usual. I therefore propose that the speakers present should be asked the questions for the final session with Minister Vandenbroucke. I also propose that if Mr Anseuw wishes to speak tomorrow, he should be added to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u48	Mr. Anseeuw came to tell me in person, earlier, that he would not intervene on the Health side. All speakers for this section are here tonight. If I count the number of interventions planned on the remaining themes, the interventions planned for the House's budget and the ministers' replies, we still have about three hours. If we add this time after the topical issues of tomorrow, knowing that there will still be discussions on important texts, we have left for a beautiful evening and a beautiful night.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u49	Madam President, if Mr Anseuw does not intervene for Health, we can finish that part today. I repeat that this is actually against the agreements, but we are still here. However, I do not know if he wants to intervene for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u50	Minister Lalieux just explained to me that she had organized herself to be available to Parliament tonight, if necessary. For tomorrow, it may have made other commitments as it was not supposed to be available. We find ourselves in a difficult situation, between the members of your group and the government bench. You can say that you have to be available seven days a week, at any time, but you still have to find a balance. In addition, I wonder if we are in danger of leaving tomorrow for ten hours of debate. We started at 2:00 and it's 10:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u51	Members of Parliament who were registered to question Minister Vandenbroucke and Minister Van der Straeten were present, as well as the ministers in question. It makes sense to me to address these issues tonight. Secondly, for the colleagues in your group who have not been able to ask their questions because they are not present, I understand that a solution must be found. But we will not block the debate if Members and ministers are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u52	Madam President, I note that Minister Lalieux is here, as is Mr Samyn and Mr Van der Donkt. I therefore believe that their debate can certainly continue. Let us not be absurd now. Let us at least discuss the items for which the speakers are present. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u53	The absurdity is that each time, as with the Summer chord, one goes against the agreements a little bit more. I repeat: against the agreements. It is also claimed that the agreements were clear and clear. But the draft report does not even mention it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u54	It has not been said that the meeting was due at 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u55	I'm sure you'll have the floor soon. It's after 22 hours, but I'll give you the floor anyway. The draft report, Mr Verherstraeten, does not even mention 22 hours. This means that we cannot continue with these reports. Unfortunately, that is a rule rather than an exception. There is no mention of 22 hours, although it is quite clear this afternoon that the time of 22 hours has at least fallen, I think. It's a mess here every time. The lateness we are now faced with, Madam President, has everything to do with the carelessness with which the meetings are led. You started by subtracting Mr Loones' time from the speeches. At one point, you suddenly told us to stop after two minutes. Every half hour, the rules change here. Every half hour changes the rules of the debate, with all the consequences. It's gonna take forever. You're not interfering. And after half an hour, you will begin to intervene. Mr Loones received 20 minutes, including speeches. After Mr Vermeersch's justified remark, he received 20 minutes, not including speeches. Nobody knows how this place works. No one knows what's going on here. I can tell you that, perhaps not now, but in the coffee room, I can count on general agreement from all my colleagues when I say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u56	You may have that feeling; but I can tell you that it is the clock that counts and that it is the services that trigger it. For the two minutes, I have to play with my gsm, because we don't have two counters that we could activate at the same time, for the five minutes, for the two minutes, for the replicas. Yes, we operate with GSMs. And when there are messages, it doesn't work. That's right. It's technical. If there's someone among you who wants to count the minutes, we can designate a meter. After that, it's still feeling and feeling. For the rest, I will continue to apply the rules as I try to apply them, with the exceptions that you would like to see.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u57	It is clear that we decided to hold a sitting today to deal with the budget dossier. The question arose as to whether we had finished earlier than expected, whether we were going to continue on other issues. We agreed not to spend one night and to stop at 10 p.m., on the understanding that the first point was to hold the budget debate until the end, since the question was whether we would do anything else if it was finished earlier. That's clear. I asked my group to do a permanence because we were going all the way. If there was a bad understanding, it must be recognized, but things were clear. We asked you if we'd go on. Mr. Flahaut was there. He's not here now. We were planning to stop at 10 p.m. if the budget was over and that was said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u58	Mr Laaouej, I propose that you continue with the powers of the Minister of Health. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of From Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u59	Madam President, in view of the way in which I work, you will not have to count on any cooperation from me in the Conference of Presidents. After all, we are not working properly in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u60	A Conference of Presidents was held this afternoon. At least five people spoke – and Mr. Registrar also, therefore, makes a sixth person – to indicate that they had understood in the same sense what had been agreed to there. If no VPs have yet been distributed, excuse me, but the meeting was opened immediately after the Conference of Presidents. We cannot be on all fronts at once. But – for Christ's sake! – If ministers are to be at their disposal and present, I think that is also true of parliamentarians. If something had not been understood, clarification had to be sought. But let us face the fait accompli on the grounds that two Members are missing today, to block the whole budget debate, I find this completely unacceptable, Mr De Roover! I propose that you continue our discussions. In the end, why do we meet here at almost 11 p.m. and after how many hours of debate – on budgetary control? It is a budgetary control for which, in some committees – and I take the example of Mrs Lalieux – there has not been a single minute of debate on adjustment. Not one! And you register speakers in plenary? I need an explanation!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u61	Madam President, I suggest you move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u62	Let us move forward with the powers of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u63	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u64	I'm trying to work in good cooperation, Mr. De Roover, but I can't help it if there's been any misunderstanding. You are putting an incomprehension on all parliamentarians. We can understand, however, that there has been a lack of understanding. We even try to offer you solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u65	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the very interesting discussion has made it very clear to me. It is a first that five group chairmen have reached a unanimous conclusion here in the hemisphere. I haven't seen much of that. Nevertheless, even now there were a few minor nuances to be heard, but this happens more often when we talk about regionalisation of care. Then I belong to one party one extreme and the other extreme. In the objective of 0,7% of GDP for development cooperation, each party appears to read something different, as in that of 2% for defence. We just had that discussion here. It is quite clear that the problem of the Vivaldi coalition is absolutely communication. We can see that in the numbers. We can see that in the blockade of the country. It is said here that only two Members are absent. That's not right. We are here with very few Members of Parliament. It was a sad discussion. We can already be satisfied that a group has understood that it should be here, and that is the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That is the only group, ladies and gentlemen. Look at all those empty banks. Is the budget debate so uninteresting? We have certainly already had discussions and questions in the Committee on Health. I also think it is very important that we can clarify this today, because it is more than a month since we had the discussions. I would also like to have some answers to my questions to the Minister. The first question I have just asked your party colleague, Mrs Depraetere, is about home nurses and the EUR 48 million entered for the white blouse fund, Minister. We discussed this in committee and you said that there was no proposal. My question to you is why you are not making a proposal. Fuel prices are huge, just like energy prices. The indexation of wages paid by home nursing services also costs a great deal. Can you spend the 48 million euros to support the home nurses? Secondly, I would like to refer once again to a comment made by the Court of Auditors. You have committed EUR 527 million, reduced to EUR 302 million in the revenue of the Länder, without having an agreement. You had no agreement when we discussed the text in committee at the beginning of May. Any movement there? Have you been together with the Ministers of Welfare in the Länder and with the Ministers of Finance of the Länder? Can you pay for the vaccines today? Do you have any agreements on that? Can you pay the pharmacists who have to vaccinate? Do you have any agreements on that? The Court of Auditors regards this as a risk. Thirdly, you have answered the question about savings relating to the pharmaceutical sector. That is a technical correction. Okay, but you're working on the pharmaceutical pact. I have just looked it up - quite ambitious as far as generics and biosimilars are concerned; that is very special. What's your plan with that? How come you haven't adapted the profiles of the medical specialists in all the time you've been qualified to do so? A physician specialist in ophthalmology should prescribe 0 % generics or biosimilars, idem in dermatovenereology and in physical medicine and rehabilitation. I think we absolutely need a plan for that. I would have liked to know whether you will come up with that plan, Minister. Finally, I have a question about something I heard yesterday in committee. I did follow the meeting, even though I was not present because of illness. Minister, you indicated that you would devise incentives for the organisation of primary care. The organisation of primary care is a state competence. How do you see that? What means will you use for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u66	Minister, there is little mention of pensions in the budgetary adjustment. Your colleague, Mrs Lalieux, did not come to the committee to explain her politics. That doesn't make any sense. After what we have seen in the press over the last few weeks and months, we can conclude that pension reform is more of a pain. We are talking about two phases, three phases, then again by 6 July, by 21 July, by the end of this year. Perhaps the hot potato will be moved to the next legislature. Who knows? Today in the committee we heard Minister Lalieux state that she remains discreet about her reform plans, which apparently will cost a lot of money, when she indicated that the reform would be budget-neutral. You were Minister of Pensions in a previous life and you know the file through and through. As expenditure ends up on your budget as Minister for Social Affairs, it must also be your concern to provide an answer to that. You once made plans in the ageing committee, but they were barely implemented or not implemented. In committee, I asked you which members of the board benefited from the funds from the consolidated pension fund, in which 128 million euros of federal money was put aside, but I did not receive an answer. It is well known that the fund is in trouble and that it will only increase over the next few years. Moreover, the recent study by the Court of Auditors puts the finger on the wound. Minister, when are you going to take the reform of the fund to heart and not hide behind a minister who is actually upsetting your budget? Our group is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u67	Minister, I have a number of questions about the adjustment of the budget. The first major problem, which we also discussed in committee, is the increase in a specific corona commission of EUR 500 million extra, a total of EUR 600 million, for corona tests. Those tests are still reimbursed at EUR 40 per test today. That means that, knowing that only EUR 16 million goes to the federal testing platform, there is a profit of EUR 100 million going to the private laboratories. So I think there is a problem with the long-term testing strategy, Minister. How do you see that in the future? For this year you have adjusted that budget, but what about next winter, if the number of covid patients increases again or if the need for testing increases? Was that included in the budget? Will we continue our testing policy in this way? I think we should have put in for free self-tests. To say it in French: you have shot yourself somewhat in the foot by not reimbursing self-tests or quick tests. These self-tests can be purchased for a euro. This means that you can give 40 free self-tests per free PCR test. What is your long-term strategy, Minister? Are you going to bet on free self-tests for the people? A second budgetary problem is the large-scale waste of vaccines. By the end of August, about 1.4 million vaccines will expire, you said. Most of them are Moderna vaccines. Of the 5.1 million vaccines, 1.4 million will end up in the garbage. That's a fourth. That is EUR 23 million in EUR 17 per vaccine. Mr. Secretary, how many vaccines did you commit yourself to? On 24 April, 57 million vaccines were vaccinated, although 80% of the population were vaccinated in Belgium. What are we going to do with the 28 million coming vaccines? Will you negotiate these contracts? What exactly does it say? What are you going to do to stop that waste? We discussed this in committee. You said that this is actually a matter for the Member States. My colleague in the European Parliament has also asked questions about this. This is also the subject of discussion in the European Parliament. It is said that the Member States themselves are responsible for these contracts. Minister, what are the precise purchase obligations? Aren't we going to waste it? Thirdly, you are counting on EUR 425 million to come from the communities: EUR 300 million for vaccines and EUR 123 million for testing. During the discussion in committee, you said that no agreement had yet been reached on this. Has an agreement been reached on this in the meantime? Can you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u68	Mrs Depoorter, the EUR 48 million available to self-employed nurses, is money from the Health Care Staff Fund. I am not saying that you said that, but it sounded a bit in your question: can we not give a raise or a compensation for rising energy prices? The money from the Health Care Staff Fund cannot be used to improve income. Indeed, I have waited a very long time, and I have become very impatient, for a proposal from the sector concerned to use this EUR 48 million. A proposal has now been made. People want to use that money for training. I have good hope that we will be there in September. I was promised that in September there will be a supported proposal on a training effort. That sounds like good news to me. Then that money will be used as it may be used under the legislation on the care staff fund. I believe that a training effort would be a very useful use, including in the self-employed sector. As regards the distribution of the financial burden of the vaccination campaign, you know the situation. There is a proposal from the federal government, which raises many questions and concerns from the Länder, but I hope that we will get out of it as soon as possible. I think this is becoming very urgent, for the reasons you mentioned. The fact that we do not really reach a full agreement on how the financial burden of the vaccination campaign is to be shared weighs on a number of concrete discussions, for example how we will make final and structural compensation to pharmacists who in their official vaccinations. I hope this gets settled as soon as possible. That was also a question from Mrs Merckx. With regard to the profiles of prescribers in relation to biosimilars, I will not answer that now, because that would be improvised. The question of how to respond effectively to prescribers in the market for biosimilars is indeed a follow-up to the discussions on the pharmaceutical pact, which have started with a great deal of delay due to COOVID-19. I am sitting around the table with the pharmaceutical sector and I hope to create a dynamic in that context that not only provides a thorough structure of policy, but also clarifies a number of similar issues. As regards the establishment of general practitioners, I said in committee exactly what I think you would like to hear because that is correct with regard to the state reform. Since the sixth state reform, establishment grants, which are the preferred instrument for encouraging general practitioners to settle somewhere, have been a state power. As far as the distribution of general practitioners is concerned, I cannot do much anymore, but I do not rule out the possibility of looking for creative solutions. A creative idea has been put forward in informal discussions which I have had on this subject, namely that we could decide by federal means to make provision in the field of general practitioners' guards, so that general practitioners' guards in outlying areas where there are few general practitioners would receive an extra boost. That's something we can organize federally, with the federal powers. Let me give you an example. That's not knocked off, but that's what we can do federally. One can try to fill gaps due to the poor distribution with general practitioners' guards, but the establishment premium is a state power. Mrs Merckx, I would like to give a general answer to your question on the testing strategy. The first criticism of the federal testing platform was that it wasn't up to speed enough. After that, the criticism was for many months that we did not have enough testing capacity and when the epidemic was happy, we were criticised for being too expensive. You'll remember that. That was not a criticism of you, because you have a correct view of it. We have rationalised the funding of that federal testing platform and then further rationalised it. I think we have now reached a point where we need to ask ourselves a question. If we remain in the current situation and do not get any more dramatic waves of contamination, what is the good testing strategy in the field of sanitary strategy, for which the RAG has drawn up a barometer, but what is a good organisational and financing strategy? This is currently under consideration in the RIZIV, but no proposal has yet been finalised, let alone a decision taken. I think this is getting urgent. We cannot continue to work with a financing architecture based on massive contagion waves. We're gonna have to revisit that. We must, of course, start from a good sanitary strategy, but I would like to stick to what the RAG has drawn up, the test strategy barometer you know. More fundamentally, I absolutely agree with you that we are, more generally, overpaying clinical biology in this country. In hospitals, this overpayment is partly recycled to finance other hospital functions, but I think that in the private labs outside the hospitals this creates very nice returns, which are converted into dividends that partly flow abroad. Then we can ask ourselves what we're doing. That is why, within the RIZIV and in good consultation within the framework of the hospital reform, we have a firm intention to do a rationalisation exercise for clinical biology in terms of funding. We must not only finance less, but also finance in a different way, but we must reinvest the money that will then be released into health care, especially in the fees of doctors-specialists and general practitioners, where appropriate. I'll follow you there. There is broad support for this, but we still have to make the concrete decisions. I don't think free self-tests are the answer here. I understand the plea you have made many times, but I am less convinced of it. That will not replace a strategy that should be based on PCR and rapid antigen tests. We will have to continue to work with that, but the self-tests play their part. As far as the expired vaccines are concerned, you have listed some figures. If you look at the fate of Moderna, you can indeed say that there will be an important number there. That is correct, but if we sell that against all the purchases of vaccines, I do not think that this is such a bad performance compared to what we have been able to use so far and what has not expired. Indeed, we are now coming to a more critical point. This has to do with the fact that COVAX is no longer dynamic because of the situation in Africa. That's what we're worried about. This also has to do with the fact that we have negotiated large-scale contracts out of caution. As you know, I am not so happy with the fact that the Polish Government took a solo initiative with some other countries and said that these contracts should be renegotiated. I felt that this was a regrettable solo initiative by some Member States, because I believe that we need to act in solidarity and together, but in substance we have supported them. We do believe that these contracts should be reviewed. There is no point in producing vaccines that cannot be used. But that too, and I apologize for repeating myself quite often, is not yet knocked off. There are discussions going on, but we want to conduct these negotiations seriously and not just get a shift in time. In this respect, we have already had some success with Pfizer and Moderna, but we should actually have to ensure that people are simply prepared to deliver less. However, I do not know whether that will work. Mrs Samyn, it is not very clear to me what question you really want to ask me about pensions. I honestly believe that this is rather a matter for my good colleague, Mrs Lalieux. Madam President, I have dealt with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u69	Mr Minister, investing in training for home nurses is, of course, a good thing. However, in the texts surrounding the white blouses, we had also taken into account that administrative outsourcing was a possibility. Today, the burden and workload are high. The outsourcing of administrative burdens would therefore have been a solution. That would have really given the nurses the opportunity to put more hands on the patient's bed. That also has an impact on revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u71	I invite you to talk to the self-employed nurses. The administrative burden is very high for them. That could have been an effective form of remuneration, albeit under an alternative form. What you say about the agreement with the Länder, you have been telling us for months now. I hope that we will reach an agreement soon. However, what is my point? That is, first of all, that your federalism of cooperation is completely in ruins and, second, that you are not basing your budget on correct figures. After all, you are basing your budget on the proposal you make to the Länder, which you sometimes adjust. However, the Court of Auditors makes it very clear that you are taking a risk for the federal budget. That's something. We will also wait for the pharmaceutical pact. Minister, you tell me that I will be happy to hear what you have said about the general practitioners. You know what I'd much rather hear? That is that you would implement the government agreement and that you would effectively achieve the transfer of full health care to the Länder. In that case, we would really agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u72	Minister, you are a master in not answering my questions. That happens sometimes in committee. I don't know if that's me. Section 24 of the Social Security Office also covers pensions. I also questioned you about this in committee. The Pension particle has also been discussed in the committee. I'm just gonna say it again. A concern of my party in the framework of the consolidated pension fund continues to be the medium- and long-term financial sustainability. The Court of Auditors also expressed those concerns in its 2021 report. The number of permanent officials is steadily falling. The Fund shall only be financed by contributions to their wages and any contribution of solidarity. The latter contribution appears to increase every year and becomes a financial millstone around their necks for some concerned administrations. I know that the government is looking at more alternative funding. However, the government has not yet been able to find money for this because of other and more urgent expenditure. The regions will therefore be looked at again. However, let us be honest. The financial capacity of two of the three regions is not such that they can easily reach a figure of several hundred million euros. Finality always comes down to the same thing. Everything is Community and Flanders will pay the invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The fact that the corona commission has increased so much for the PCR tests is a cause for concern and a reason to think about a long-term test strategy. I do not see very many answers from you in this respect, but you are simply saying that this strategy is not yet in order. You do not think that free self-tests are an alternative, but in practice I see that people can get a PCR test at the GP free of charge via a telephone consultation, although they have to pay for the self-test. Do we actually need so many PCR tests today? A general practitioner should be able to take that test when he or she has certain indications. In this respect, however, we can certainly achieve a shift. When it comes down to it, we have to look at the profits that go to certain laboratories. That is where we can rationalise the situation. I never criticized the federal platform myself. On the contrary, I believe that the platform is a good investment. So why should we not put more effort into this? The money then remains with the public sector. There is therefore the issue of the expired vaccines, which you indicate has still not been knocked off. But what will you do about it? You still haven't said anything about that. It is not normal that we should still have to buy 28 million vaccines, because we have committed ourselves to this. I don't know if that's true. You didn't tell me about that either. So we should only buy those vaccines for the profits of the big pharma, while on the other side of the world people are still waiting for vaccines that they cannot afford. That is completely absurd and scandalous. I therefore hope that you will take action against this. We shall certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u74	We had to talk about Mr. Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u75	Mr Sophie De Wit has been entered on the list of speakers. Because of the confusion about the arrangements, she just left. As soon as the discussion has started, we have contacted her. She's on her way and she was supposed to be here in 10 to 15 minutes. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister wishes to be flexible and exchange views with the next speaker so that Mrs De Wit can make her speech effective. It is, of course, up to the Minister to decide. If he does not wish to do so, I assume that Mrs De Wit will be able to ask her questions to the minister's replacement, who will replicate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u76	I deeply regret that, Madam President. I wasn't aware either and was available all afternoon. Should the Minister behave in the same way as the Member of Parliament, the opposition would have called us out and spat us out. That is what I wanted to say, Mr Loones. Anyway, Mr. Loones, you say she'll be here in 15 minutes. If she's here in 15 minutes, I'll still be available. Madam President, I would therefore suggest that another colleague should begin, but of course you will decide on that. I'll give Mrs. De Wit 15 minutes, not half an hour or 45 minutes. So I want to be flexible for you and your group, Mr Loones. I therefore hope that in future you will have the same sympathy with other ministers and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u77	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his kindness. We'll see. Sophie De Wit is a solid colleague who likes to control her file, so she is rushing to Parliament and I assume she will be here on time. If that is not the case, Madam President, I assume that the Minister will provide the necessary replacement so that she can keep her statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u78	We now turn to Ms. Lalieux's skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u79	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor at this late hour. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence, even though we have been sitting together for three hours this afternoon; I almost wanted to say that we have been sitting together together; certainly the discussion was interesting. This is the first time that I have been able to address you directly within the framework of the budget. In fact, there was little or nothing to discuss during the previous budget debates. You know that your department was not subject to this, to the state of your reforms. I take the liberty of asking you today, because I have to note that a budget adjustment of more than EUR 2 billion has been made. That's not very small. My first question to you is therefore about that. The initial budget involved EUR 57 billion. We're over 59 billion now. My first question is therefore whether you can clarify this increase. After all, there was no budget discussion on this in committee. However, I know the answer you will give. That's easy, I'll tell you a little bit. It will probably have something to do with the indexation and with the fact that a little more people retired than initially estimated. But don't let that stop me from going on at that discussion point. Indeed, you will have noticed that since the 2020 budget, at the beginning of the Vivaldi government, pension expenditure has increased by more than EUR 7.7 billion. So that's a big amount of money. Nor do I need to repeat that more than 20% of what is int. is spent on pensions. So it is a very important dossier, all the more so because expenditure is going to rise, rise, increase, at least until 2050. Hopefully we'll reach the peak. The forecasts put forward by specialists are not very encouraging. The graph before me shows that in 2050 we will face, in the most optimistic calculations, EUR 14 billion of additional expenditure on pensions in the case of unchanged policies. I have asked you several times about this. You have indeed increased the minimum pensions, and that was a good thing, with which I have no problem whatsoever. When I asked how you would finance that, your first answer was that it was a political choice. I continued to ask about it, and your President insisted that the reform would be budget-neutral. You yourself underlined that she would be budget-neutral by 2040 and that I didn't have to worry about it. I find that strange. After 20 years, when I take a loan to buy a house, it is indeed budget-neutral, because then I don't have to pay anything more. In the meantime, however, I have had to pay all that money. Another argument you found in inflation. You said in February that inflation would increase wages, you would receive more taxes and more contributions and the expenses would be compensated; I can quote your statement. I find that all very strange. I can only conclude that you do know about the problem, but you do not see the seriousness of it. This afternoon, with your answer to a question from Mr Colebunders, you seemed to have seen the light of day. The three pillars to fund pensions in the future are sound public finances, high levels of effectiveness and a healthy, growing economy. You will therefore base your future reforms on these three pillars. Madam Minister, as far as public finances are concerned, I listened to Mr Van Parys of the National Bank yesterday. He calls the numbers dramatic. Government debt rises so rapidly, to 130 % of GDP, that government financing becomes precarious. So there's work to be done. The efficacy rate is currently 70.6%. You're going to 80 %. As far as the healthy economy is concerned, Professor Peersman said today in Knack that it doesn't look so bright. Madam Secretary, you know all these figures. When will you come up with a healthy, structural pension reform, which will cost the ageing (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u80	Mr. Van der Donkt, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u81	Madam President, I have been waiting a long time, so I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u82	Your group leader is asking me to impose the same rules on everyone. So you get five minutes to ask your questions and two minutes to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u83	Madam Secretary, don't worry, I won't be talking about the pension file. Some declining expenditure on the social budget is strange. The amount for the installation premium for homeless people is falling because the number of files is falling. However, this contrasts sharply with the increasing number of homeless people. So that is more a signal that there are simply no more places to live for these people than that the homeless problem would have been solved. There has not been any legislative work to resolve this problem so far. However, it looks as though the number of homeless will only increase as a result of the Ukraine crisis, the associated energy crisis and additional inflation. There should be some foresight in this area. Moreover, it is remarkable that the budget for the OMCW grant for the right to social integration falls by as much as EUR 88 million. Apparently, the government did not take account of the current crisis and hoped that the worst would be over by mid-February. That is not the case. Here, too, the next adjustment of the expenditure budget will have to make every effort. We also note a number of inconsistencies in the metropolitan policy. The European money earmarked for Belgium through the REACT-EU Plan, although to be spent between 2021 and 2023, amounted to almost EUR 29 million. For the year 2021, the planned budget has not been effectively spent. Also in 2020 there was a foreseen fate that was not purchased. It is very strange that the government does not manage to buy sustainable, movable goods in the context of food aid, while the Food Banks are crying out for extra goods. I'd like a little more explanation on that. We find it very regrettable that both for the year 2020 and 2021 the necessary money was available through the REACT-EU Plan, but that it was simply not spent. However, I would like to point out that if the European funds were not spent by the end of 2023, we would have lost them. Given the precarious situation in which part of the population finds itself, where even people with a full-time job and two extra jobs have to call on the Food Banks, I find it insane that the government is unable to spend additional financial resources. Madam Minister, I told you a few months ago that it is poignant for a prosperous country to choose between food and heating. Mr Vermeersch just referred to the figures: four out of ten Flemings barely have enough money to get through the month. I ask you to use your budget to take measures to ensure that our people, especially the most needy among us, feel the difference by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u84	Mr Van der Donckt, indeed the half-hour overtime is indexing – the increase in the minimum pension. You did the questions and answers about the increase in the budget anyway, which makes it easier for me to do the job. I'm not going back to that. However, I believe that all other issues have nothing to do with budgetary adjustment. You know, like me, since we had a long debate this afternoon on pensions, that we have asked the social partners to make proposals to us on the social and financial sustainability of the pension system. At the same time, as regards the three indications you have made, namely the increase in the employment rate and productivity, this is well written as it is in the government agreement. I therefore have in my reply to Mr Colebunders invited him to re-read this government agreement with regard to pensions because the three best solutions to ensure the financial viability of our pension system are written as they stand. Mrs Samyn, you know as well as I do that the FEAD has been increased by 24 million, which is now sufficient at the level of food banks. If, today, there is a reduction in the budget for social integration income – perhaps something to be welcomed – it is because the number of beneficiaries of this income is decreasing. It is therefore rather positive for a number of people to return to work, with the aim that the social assistance of the CPAS is a springboard so that they do not remain in receipt for many years. In relation to all the problems of poverty that you mentioned, including that of poor workers, the government has taken strong measures that have been repeated throughout this afternoon. In a week or two, I hope, the government will validate the plan to combat poverty and inequality, which will therefore also concern this category of disadvantaged workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u85	Madam Secretary, I expected your answer somewhat. It proves once again that the Vivaldi government really does not understand the seriousness of the situation. The government relies on public finances, which are absolutely bad. Public debt continues to increase, which, of course, also puts considerable pressure on public finances. I haven't heard much about how you're going to increase effectiveness. Finally, as far as the healthy economy is concerned, the figures are not very good either. I'm not just saying that, the IMF says that, too. You know all this, and that leads me to the conclusion that you have heard the bell ringing, but that you absolutely do not know where the clapper is. I hope this will be the case in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u86	Madam Minister, as always you sound very ambitious, but I can't get rid of the impression that the government is fighting symptom rather than tackling the fundamental causes of poverty. I asked you just now that you would use your budget to take measures to make the population feel the difference at the end of the month. Convince your federal colleagues, for example, to permanently reduce VAT on energy prices to 6% and to reduce VAT on essential resources, such as fruit, vegetables, etc. to 0%. Such measures could give a financial sip to the most vulnerable among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u87	We now return to the powers of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u88	Madam President, Minister, thank you for waiting for me. I followed the meeting in the car, so I heard the whole discussion. I was present in Parliament for a reasonable hour this afternoon, but I had another municipal committee on the agenda that I started to follow. When it was just finished, there was a discussion going on here. You can't blame me for waiting a while before I got back into the car, because I'm driving myself and I'm going to have to drive back myself. I would never want to get away from my job in Parliament. I do not do that today, nor did I do it in committee, Madam President. You pointed out that there are committees where there was no mention of budgetary adjustment, but I also intervened in the Committee on Justice. I always try to do that, so I'll do that today. Mr Minister, in connection with the budgetary adjustment and the budget for justice in general, I was thinking about this, and I am sure that you will also be doing so on how we can properly spend the additional resources that you receive. Budgetary control provides EUR 70 million for the renovation of the Brussels Palace of Justice. Those theories have already been replaced, but it is still about the exterior renovation and then the inside has not yet been addressed. You drive in Kortrijk and as a driver you have to think about how to deal with taxpayers' money differently. There is an important task for you, together with the Minister for Energy. If we want to spend EUR 70 million on an outside façade and the inside is not yet in order, perhaps we should think about it. I know that the Justice Palace is an important building in the area of présence and so on whether we can spend it more efficiently and more modernly. After all, I dare not even think about what the invoice will be from the inside of the building. I will come back to that later, because I think that you, together with the Government of the Buildings, should consider a different approach. The coalition agreement contains a lot of great promises and ambitions, including on digitisation and punitive execution. You were given extra resources for that, too. That's good, because former Minister Geens had fought hard for that. It is important that these resources are available. You have the ambition and the money, but we still have to establish that we will soon have that discussion again in committee in the light of your draft law coming up that does not completely reverse the tanker. Here's what I need to establish. And that doesn't make me happy. Maybe you think the opposition likes this, because then we can get mad again. That is not the case, and I am not pleased to see that many of these ambitions cannot be realized and end up in the garbage can. I understand you'll be asking for urgent procedure tomorrow for your bill. You're gonna change the sentence to the extent that you're gonna release convicted people six months in advance. That is a sad low point, Minister, for you as a minister, but also simply tout court for justice, if we finally have to go that way, because we are not going to be punished. It was then somewhat tempered, it is not until 2025 but until 2023 and it is watched for 2024. However, you are going to release everyone tout court six months earlier. If we have to go down that road, there's something very wrong. Last week in plenary, you said that these are people who have a maximum sentence of ten years and that they are not aboutfenders and sexual offenders. Well, I guess it's a good thing. I've gone to all the trouble, and I've gone to the Criminal Code. A professional idiot like me does that once in a while. Do you know which crimes are punishable for up to ten years? That's more than half the criminal code. And then I do not even take into account the mechanism of correction. You are well aware of our objection to this. You will once again adjust the number of inmates to the capacity, while you will have to work on the capabilities for a rigorous sentence. I am talking not only about prisons or detention homes but also about alternative penalties. I know that Flanders has already taken up its commitment and is doing the necessary. After all, the number of ankle straps that are eventually followed has never been so high. With regard to the detention houses, you were going to provide 720 places by 2024. You will now receive an additional EUR 10 million and an additional EUR 20 million. That money will be taken away from legal aid, unless you need more money there. You need to explain to me how you're gonna do that. The Court of Auditors also says that you do not work transparently in this way and that makes it completely impossible for you. It is then seen that you will receive EUR 30 million and at the end of the year you will still have achieved only 74 places. We were able to rent Tilburg for 40 million euros. Isn't there another slope, Minister? Mr. Koen Geens talked all the time about building, building, building. We need to look at how far we are going with regard to prisons. However, when are you going to come up with a Marshall Plan on the detention homes, rather than saying that the mayors have to live up to your promise? If you do start with a round table, it might be interesting to make some sort of Marshall Plan and build detention homes instead of looking for locations that need to be adapted and cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u89	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, you have asked a lot of questions that you have already asked in committee. I do not think it is intended that I should reply to it again, for the efficiency of the sitting. You're talking about the trash can. I think that's a strange statement. I'm gonna do the short sentences. As of September 1st, I'm going to execute the short sentences. You have participated in a government that has not carried out these short sentences. That's the difference. You have postponed that law several times, even in the previous reign. We're going to implement that law now. That's the difference. That law wasn't implemented for 20 years, we're gonna implement it. That's the difference between what you're saying and the big explanation and what we're doing. You're also talking about detention homes. You're asking me if I should do something else. The reality with regard to these detention homes is that I have no support from your party in that regard. You always have nice words here, saying that you are in favour of the principle, but every time I apply for a detention center in one of the municipalities where you run and deliver the chairman, you say it is inappropriate. Let me give you the example of Ninove. The board of Ninove has the courage to say that there will be a detention house in the municipality. Who's against it? The N-VA. Again. It happens over and over and over again. If we want to build a detention center, the N-VA is against it. You're saying I have to do the short sentences, but the moment we do, you're blocking it. That is the reality. The EUR 20 million we are providing is not only about detention homes but also about other resources. I explained that in committee too. Mrs De Wit, if you think it should go forward, and we do, make sure that you are consistent in what you are doing. If you're in favour of detention homes, give us places and buildings where they can go. Many of you are locally active, very active. Help us with that. Make a difference at that point. And don't block it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u90	Mr. Secretary, do you know what I'm sorry about? You make promises, you announce, and if it doesn't work, it's the local authorities' fault. You are talking about 20 years, only one of our two parties has been in the government continuously for 20 years, when that law was not implemented, namely your party. Previous legislature, we worked together with Mrs Van Cauter to amend that law so that it could be implemented. That was postponed over and over again. So don't paint it that way. I don't think it's right. You promise and then shift it to the local authorities. During the corona crisis, everything was also sent to the local authorities. So I do not like that criticism, Minister. I've been looking around. I can only speak of my congregation. I've been looking around for buildings. You know well enough, I support the principle of detention homes. The basis of support is crucial. However, you have begun to announce, because you needed places, that so many detention homes were going to come, that you were still getting support. If I had a building, I'd consider it. However, I have to find buildings to accommodate my Ukrainian people. I have to find buildings for everything today. It is not obvious and I would like my territory to be larger, but it is not. I do not think that is a fair discussion. Besides, what I said and asked is not about that. I read that you want to hold a round table about overpopulation in prisons. Minister Verlinden has a state general, who will be there in 2024. I don't know if that's gonna work out. I hope we can do this with a round table. Maybe we should work out a master plan for detention homes. However, this must not happen 'on the wild crook'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u91	You say we're working against you, we're not looking for detention homes. In all honesty, with those 74 places this year, you won't solve the overpopulation. It's part of the solution. So let's check it out and work on a master plan, together with the Director of Buildings. We must build, build, build, as Koen None said. And don't keep shifting responsibility like you just did.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u92	Mrs. De Wit, there's a master plan. What are you saying? There is a master plan both for the prisons and for the detention homes. On 1 April, I told you several times, we set up eight locations for the detention homes. And over and over again it turns out that it works, because Ninove has now come out and said it will. However, your party is against this, with all sorts of faint excuses: it's too much in town, it's too much out of town, it's at a school, it's away from the school, it's always the same excuses. There's a master plan. Do you know what getting support is? Those are politicians who stick their necks out and say they're gonna do it there. Do you really think that creating support means asking the people if they want a detention home? Do you really think so? How long have you been in politics? Long enough, though. You're mayor. You do well in your congregation. However, one must stick one's neck out and do it, say one is fighting impunity, be consistent and ensure that there are places. These are courageous politicians, not politicians who make statements in Parliament and say they are in favour of the principle but not with them, because they do not like it. That's what I'm asking you. The master plan is there, but besides that master plan it takes courage and courageous politicians. That's what we need in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u93	I partly agree with you on the courageous politicians, but we are also nothing with politicians who only announce and hope to be able to cheat. That's what you do. If there's a master plan around the prisons and detention homes, come with it to the Chamber. How many times have I asked you that? Let's debate it and look at it, but you won't. You may say that there is a master plan, but that is a well-kept secret. Parliament is not getting a look at this. That's too bad. I can only account for my board, not for others. This isn't the gremium for it. We didn't boycott this. That is absolutely not the case. That verdict is on your own account. I understand very well that you're angry. It's very annoying if you have to withdraw your promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u94	We are now coming to the powers of Minister Verdeinden. Mr Metsu has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u95	Madam Minister, until yesterday I had finished a speech on NAVAP and the FGP, among others, with the questions that have been going on here for months. Yesterday, however, I had a very interesting conversation with one of your experts at the State General of Private Security. He thought it logical that everyone from those authorities and authorities constantly asks for money if there is no new vision of how to work. I completely threw away the speech we had prepared. You know that the budget is degenerate. There are a lot of services under your jurisdiction that require more money. I understand that, too. If it doesn't change, you ask for money. I'll get right to the question I'd like to ask you. What are your views on the new police, the police of the future, but also on the areas of assistance of the future, the FGP and so on? Your expert said that if everything is reformed and not put into working groups, task forces or states-generals, you will understand where you want to go. If we know where we're going with this, we can allocate those resources. Now, however, we do not know at all. Now everything stays with the same thing. This will be the case in the coming years, because these study groups and States-Generals will not produce results until next year, perhaps within two years. Of course, they're asking for more money, which makes perfect sense. You can actually save us within the budget now. Once again, I am also talking about the NAVAP, the FGP and all those hot issues that we have already talked about, but I would like to ask you what your future vision is for the police. What is your vision for the aid areas and, in fact, for all your areas? If we know that, we will know effectively how to allocate these budgets to the budget. I'd like to start with that question. Then I'm gonna take that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u96	Mr Metsu, I was very curious to hear your intervention on the NAVAP and on the FGP. We've talked about that before. You're asking me about my vision of the future. I certainly have ideas about the future. We have to make that future together. That is why we are thinking together in those working groups and in the states-generals. Important exchanges of views have already taken place there. When we talk about an organisation that has been active within this structure for 20 years, especially the police, it is good that people who are active within that structure, but also people who are close to it, such as experts and academics, give their views on their current functioning. I do not entirely agree with you that if nothing changes, people will only ask for more money. I don't think so. Within the structure that exists today, for example the dual structure of the integrated police force, with the local police and the federal police, there are certainly opportunities to proceed with the efficient use of resources. We have 14 PHPs today. The FGPs should not change their tasks in order, for example, to know how to deal with them rationally. It is obvious that there should be more cooperation and that there should be more specialisation within the PPPs. It is also clear that we must adopt specialised profiles for this purpose. I am not convinced today that we need very large reforms within the structure of the police to look to the future. It is certainly true that there are limits to the existing structure on the ground. This is certainly the case, but it is possible to use limited interventions, for example by looking at the local police control mechanism, or by looking at the executives within the federal police management committee, to indicate a further direction. I do not believe that without major reform there will be no future for the police or that we do not know where to go. I do think that with a few limited interventions we can make the police more performant, as well as the use of resources. That the vision should not only come from me, I am convinced of that. I don't think it's wrong to think about it. I think it would be a much worse idea not to think about it and not to talk about it with all the actors involved. Just keep going and then find that there are gaps in the concept, I don't think it's a good idea. Having said that, we have made quite a few choices in this legislature. That is why we have not only committed the additional funds for this year, but also for 2023 and 2024. We have had an extensive exchange of views on this in committee. We have increased the predictability that the FGP and the prosecutors were asking for. If we had only talked about the funds for this year, we would probably ask what to do in a few months' time before 2023 and 2024. We have now made that choice. This also applies to a number of other areas of competence within the Interior. I am thinking, for example, of the Council of State, for which we have provided recurrent additional investment for staff. This is also a direction that we are taking to ensure that the Council of State can come to justice more quickly, thus contributing to legal certainty for the benefit of the citizens and the authorities concerned who are faced with procedures. Another vision that is clear is the vision of the innovation and digitisation of the police. I told you before, I think the police of the future should be digital. If we don't go along with that story, we'll always go after the criminals. For example, after the operation Sky ECC, they are of course not still standing still. That is why we are opting for large investments in these projects. We will continue to do so in the future, not only within the police, but also within the executives of the Home Office. That seems to me to be the way forward. As far as fire and rescue areas are concerned, I also believe that we do not need a very large reform or restructuring today. The decision to move to assisted areas dates back some time ago. What we need to do is continue to focus on good and manageable training for our firefighters. We continue to focus on the attractiveness of the function of firefighter or volunteer woman. That also seems to me to be a very great challenge. Without these volunteers, the fire department is not affordable. So there are certainly a number of dossiers that we need to work on, but they fit within the vision that has been put on the table and which can be used as a compass today. I don't know if you have any special questions? You said you'd come back to it. I believe that we are following the right path with this vision. The intention is to come forward with the recommendations of those States-General at the beginning of next year, in order to translate them into concrete policy actions. One final point, to which you did not explicitly refer, is crisis management. You know we're doing an analysis. As far as I am concerned, it does not mean to throw the whole structure on the shovel and to revise everything. There are a lot of things in crisis management that work well, but we do need to look at things that are not working well, such as the channels of communication, a clear mandate and the role of Civil Protection. As you know, the work is going on there. Of course, this is not the end of the debate, but we can continue it in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u97	Madam Secretary, first of all, in 2019 there were elections. I hear you now saying that at the beginning of 2023 you want to translate the recommendations of the States-General, the views of the experts, into policy. What has happened in recent years? I've asked for your vision. I believe that many experts are asking for that view. You say that you will invest and therefore increase the budgets. But is it the holy grail to just increase budgets? You answer that you will reorganise and realize the police of the future. I don't know if he needs all that extra resources and money. I do believe that leadership is needed. I'm afraid it's missing today. Secondly, you say that the police of the future must be digital. I totally disagree with that. The police of the future must also be digital. Let us finally tackle this aspect and take care of it. But more blue on the street is necessary. The burglar who breaks into Schoten or Edegem or anywhere else isn't sitting behind his screen all day looking if the police are onto him or not. The police must be on the street. The police have to catch bad guys. The police have to lock up bad guys. Your predecessor, Minister Van Quickenborne, has just left. Here are still mayors, ships, local mandatators in the hall. I am grateful to them for this, because they know how difficult it is when someone is arrested and then told that he will be released a little earlier in view of the overcrowding in prisons. That's incredibly frustrating. The same police forces, your police forces have to recharge themselves every day to get the same scum off the street and put the same crap under lock and key to hear that the next day the arrested persons will be released. That's unlikely. I am fairly sure that the vast majority of Flanders, of Wallonia, of Belgium tout court, have had it. So when we ask for a vision, we mean a vision in which we can act and act effectively against everyone who opposes our society, values, standards and Constitution. That is completely lacking today. We are discussing the budget today. We see figures in the budget that are not always clear. The figures can be clearer if we know where we want to go. That's my message today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u98	Mr Metsu had only used a little more than two thirty minutes of his speaking time. He thus enjoyed two more thirty minutes, which is added to the two minutes of reply. Mr Metsu therefore respected his speaking time. The next item is the debate on the powers of Minister Van der Straeten. Mr Wollants has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u99	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary control we are discussing here is largely about the resources needed for the social tariff measure, which we have also discussed in committee. I would point out that, even though budgetary control has not yet been approved, the extension of the social tariff measure has already been announced. In committee, we discussed how much that will cost. According to the Court of Auditors' documents, it is EUR 270 million to be able to finance the last quarter of this year. I am afraid that these figures too have become somewhat outdated in the light of the evolution of gas prices on the markets over the last few days and weeks. The price for delivery in the fourth quarter made a serious leap a while ago. This price has remained at the same level over a period, although very high, but more or less stable. Since the reduction of a number of deliveries, however, we have to note that a further 34% has been added. To what extent does the present budgetary control already take this into account? I suppose that is not the case yet, nor is it the case with financing for the fourth quarter. Madam Secretary, can you tell us the most recent views in this regard? How will this be included in the budget? Another aspect of budgetary control is the over-profit scheme. You have asked the National Bank for advice on the measure, and it has linked it to a small part that deals specifically with the purchasing power measures taken by the government. For this purpose, the National Bank partly relies on study work by the KU Leuven, which makes some striking observations. For example, the way in which purchasing power is supported is not the same everywhere. For example, a middle class middle class group, which is part of the 82% who cannot claim the social rate, is going down, which we had already warned against. At the two ends of the curve we see that, once indexation has done its job, there is sufficient compensation. This applies to both high and low incomes. The extension of the social tariff also increases compensation for the effect of energy prices. The National Bank's graph indicates that the various measures compensate about EUR 100 per month more than the cost. This led the National Bank to suggest that more targeted purchasing power measures should actually be introduced. So far, the government has used the social tariff. The government then made all the measures applicable to all other categories applicable to those entitled to the social tariff. These measures must, of course, be financed and that funding comes from the budget and is therefore paid for by the taxpayer. This is again the case for the middle class, whose research shows that it benefits less from the measures and therefore now has less purchasing power than before. Madam Secretary, how will you deal with that? I may not be able to identify you with your party, but I hear them arguing for an extension of the social tariff. However, the figures from the National Bank show that the beneficiaries of the social tariff are already receiving more compensation than what it costs them. That may be your policy, your policy, but it has nothing to do with compensating energy prices, but with a system of redistribution, which you have thus been channeling into the energy debate. That is why I would like to hear from you how this debate continues. A group of people does not have the right to the social rate, is just outside it, and goes under it, while the people who do enjoy a social rate are actually encouraged not to look for a job, because otherwise they may also fall outside the category of right holders. This is absolutely contrary to the ambition of getting more people to work. The government must adapt to this. Madam Secretary, what are your solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u100	Thank you for the purchasing power debate, Mr Wollants. I've received a report from the National Bank on the overprofits. There is also a general report from the National Bank, to which you refer. That was a provisional version and there will also be a final version. The governor himself has communicated about its content and it is currently being discussed with the members of the government. In October last year, when we discussed the budget, some time ago, we also discussed the beneficiaries of the social tariff and the group that is just outside it. I repeat what I said at the time: it is not about organising competition between those who are having a hard time and those who are having a hard time. The different income groups in our society require a specific approach. The extension of the social tariff, the rate applicable to persons with the BIM status or with an increased allowance, they have to pay only EUR 1 for a doctor's visit, has ensured that that group of people was always protected against strong price increases. As a result, we have avoided a situation in which these people would have fallen into poverty. Of course there is also the group that falls outside, namely the middle class, and it is also having a hard time. If the advance is tripled, if we are faced with suppliers who no longer want to offer fixed contracts and if we are faced with suppliers who have to buy energy sources at high prices in the daily markets, then it is difficult. That's why we reduced VAT. This removed the booster from the invoice. Broader purchasing power measures will also be considered in the context of ongoing government discussions. These are measures for families, for workers, for savers, in addition to measures for the competitiveness of businesses. After all, the report by the National Bank shows that companies are also having a difficult time. In this sense, the government is making a holistic exercise, of which the energy hatch is also part. In recent days, the Netherlands and Denmark have announced an early warning. Germany has indicated that it is seriously considering issuing the alert phase, which is even worse. At the end of this week there will be the European Summit. It will no longer be about the design of a seventh sanction package, because the embargo is being organised by President Putin himself today by gradually reducing energy flows to the west. It is therefore important to prepare ourselves for further loss of purchasing power and to avoid further reductions in competitiveness. We must therefore work towards genuine solidarity between the Member States, but perhaps also a form of compulsory solidarity between the Member States in order to avoid it being offered to one another. I say this as the Minister for Energy of a Member State that is not the hardest, because Belgium is at the source, at the beginning of the pipeline, next to an LNG terminal, next to the refining. I understand the concerns of my colleagues in our neighbouring countries and other Member States very well. That is why Belgium has always said that it wants to work on this compulsory solidarity. If we tackle it holistically, including at European level, we can avoid impoverishment. That must also be our objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u101	Madam Minister, the problem that I mentioned in the budget debate has to do with the fact that the government chose not only to extend the social tariff but also to compensate for the cost of corona in the Ecolo-Green proposal, and also because it awarded additional compensation to the group at the top of the social tariff, such as the EUR 80 cheque. After all, from the report of the National Bank on the over-profits....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, he is getting more back than the extra costs that the price increase has caused. That is where the problem lies for the group that is just outside. You can say that there is no competition, but it is very hard to believe that someone who wants to get out of the first two income groups and accept a job will have to hand in a few thousand euros off by social tariff. How will such a person ever take the step towards a job, which can nevertheless help to achieve the efficiency level of 80 %? That's never gonna happen. The government is completely blind to that. You argue that the middle class can enjoy the VAT reduction on electricity and gas. That is true, but that reduction has been reduced to a very minimal level. I asked you in committee how much this reduction is effective, and you replied to me that you did not know it, since it is not within your competence, but within the competence of Minister Van Peteghem. So it is very easy to play the two groups against each other, Madam Secretary. I'll get on with this, and I think there's work to be done. After all, we have a forgotten group. Everyone always says that 2 million people can enjoy the social rate. Those who can't count on it have to make ends meet, and that's not fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u102	That is far too simplistic a suggestion. The social tariff reaches a large group, thus protecting it from poverty. Another group is also helped by the VAT reduction, by the heating premium and by other tax measures taken by the government, including in the framework of the budget. Those two groups, a group of 2 million Belgians who are supposedly getting everything and playing a large group that is forgotten against each other, are simply wrong. I certainly doubt, Mr Wollants, that what you mentioned about the EUR 80 in the report by the National Bank is mentioned in this way. I suggest that we have the debate in committee. We will certainly and rightly continue to talk about the report by the National Bank on the overprofits.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u103	Madam Secretary, we can both read. Take control of the National Bank's report and take the assessment per income decile of each group. What does that prove? The first group will receive an additional 100 euros of purchasing power per month as a result of the extension of the social tariff compared to the situation for the energy price crisis. The other group, however, is losing purchasing power. That's the difference I make between those two groups. I'm not making any difference; I'm just taking the conclusions of the National Bank, for which you close your eyes. You say that I play people against each other and you say that you think it is important to help those who can enjoy the extension of the social tariff. Excuse me, the group that is just outside is at least as important to me! Wiping those numbers under the mat doesn't help here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u104	We can now discuss the powers of Secretary of State Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, I hope you're calmer than you were last week or two weeks ago. You were quite excited at the time because you had to come back. You were certainly informed that I would have demanded that you return, which was not the case. That was a weird case, and you were agitated. I also saw that at the Luxembourg meeting you had to reach an agreement on a European group, the coalition of the willing, which apparently has an agreement on voluntary distribution. Has there also been an agreement on permanent responsibility under the Dublin Convention? Perhaps you can clarify that. This budget is again a budget as we have been used to since you took office. There's a lot of extra money for asylum shelter, many millions. Apparently there's no end to that, the sky is the limit when it comes to asylum shelter. We think there's another way. We believe that it can be done more efficiently and that you should, above all, put more emphasis on detachment. You finally have to make that cover. By the way, I wish you every success as President of CD&V and will continue to try, from the opposition, with your successor or successor, to steer the government's policy on asylum and migration, and certainly the great pain of asylum at the moment, in better jobs and, above all, to use it in the coming months, to make it clear that there is a limit on the sky somewhere. There's a lot of tension within your government about this file. In the debate between the budgetary experts, I was able to ask Mr Vanbesien what he thought of the statements made by the Deputy Prime Minister of Green, Petra De Sutter, who said last weekend: 'I hope that the next State Secretary - your successor - will listen to our proposals'. This, of course, makes it implicitly clear that you have not listened to these proposals. I also refer to the quote of the new President of Green, Jeremie Vaneeckhout: "Sammy Mahdi's asylum policy is unacceptable. Every day he gets convicted because people have to sleep on the street." Of course, those are not pleasant things to hear from coalition partners. I had to hear that from Mrs Lanjri when I was Secretary of State myself. He also said all these mean things about which I had a different opinion, just as you undoubtedly have a different opinion than Mrs De Sutter or Mr Vaneeckhout. Mr Vanbesien replied that he did not agree that your policy is unacceptable, but that it is unacceptable for people to sleep in the streets and for you to be condemned every day. I think I am right to reject Mr Vanbesien's position, but I do not know whether he is speaking on behalf of his party as a whole, since the President considers all your policies totally unacceptable. You are again asking for more than EUR 100 million for asylum reception. What are you going to do to stop the flow of convictions? You launched the idea of a tent camp. Is that concrete? Where do we stand with that? Do you have a budget for that? Is that from Fedasil's budget? Are you looking at other roads? Are you looking at the DOD? At some point, I had understood that even the DOD might have to take responsibility. Is that right? Are there any discussions going on? How will you make sure that care is guaranteed for everyone? After all, daily convictions are never pleasant. The last thing I heard was a letter from the Little Castle, but whether or not that is a true letter is disputed. Perhaps you could give some explanation. It stated that even those who won the proceedings before the labour court would not now receive shelter. We normally have to enforce this law and eventually we get a place. Is it true that they do not receive shelter? Perhaps you can clarify that. In this afternoon's debate, there was something to be said about this and there was insufficient clarity. Fedasil's budget is rising, but how will you address the acute problems of accommodating people who enforce them through court? Same for those who don't have room right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u106	Mr Francken, it is amazing. We have been doing this for two years now, which is not that long, but we can also have a long debate on the efficiency of the parliamentary debates. As you know, Mr Francken, I always find all the discussions on migration particularly interesting. I could talk to you about this for hours. It'd be fun. We'll grab a glass and we'll talk about it. I just thought we were sitting here today for the budget. Apparently, it's a little more spacious and then we'll be here until midnight. Not for me, it can be till 6:00 tomorrow morning. I ask myself questions about that, but come on, it'll be for the future. However, I am happy to answer your questions because I find them interesting. If it's going to be a long discussion, we'll make it. I would find it rude not to answer questions. The first question was about the Council and the discussion on the migration pact. That's an interesting discussion. I haven't seen you in the committee a few times, so you missed a few. We have already discussed the interesting Council meetings there. I would like to give a summary of what we have discussed in the Committee on the Interior in the last three weeks with regard to Asylum and Migration. The migration pact is not obvious to close. We all know how difficult it is to achieve cooperation on migration at European level with 27 Member States, with the problems that we know today and which you have known for some time. I found it strange that I recently, I think for the first time, heard you say that screening at the external border would never work, and you also say that this is the greatest myth ever, since people are already screening at the external border. So we are talking about something that is actually already happening today. On the one hand, it already exists and then we tell something new, which actually already exists, and on the other hand, you recently said that screening at the external border will never happen. I know that the story on the one hand is a combination that my party sometimes uses. However, when they contradict each other, it becomes quite difficult. So it's either one or the other. I can accept that you say you don't believe it's coming. It could be. You're free to do that. I should almost have to go along with that when we look at the past few years. There is not much progress, although everyone realizes that the needs are very high. Firstly, a political agreement was reached at the latest European Council in order to effectively achieve a combination of dissemination across a number of countries which have voluntarily indicated their willingness to participate in it. The main thrust of the proposal was, moreover, France and Germany, the two major countries, which have indicated their willingness to do their work firmly, in order to convince the countries on the southern side of Europe, the Med 5, which are difficult to convince. They have therefore gone along with the story, which, if I am not mistaken, will hopefully enable the next meeting of the European Council at the end of June 2022 to take an effective step towards the Eurodac Regulation and the screening regulation. These are two important aspects, which means that everyone is screened at the border of Europe. It must be invested in it. There are indeed differences of opinion as to whether or not the regulation is a good thing. I believe it is right that everyone should be screened and checked at a subsequent stage at the border before he or she can set foot anywhere in the European Union. Eurodac deals with biometric data, which are being extended, to at least know who enters. We live in difficult times. I have also heard Mr Metsu talk about tackling radicalisation. We know the situation in Afghanistan, the Middle East and the Sahel. It is important that we know who is coming to Europe and that we have a better view of it. The Eurodac Regulation is important. We have taken steps in this respect, and I hope that last week's political agreement will also result in a final agreement that the French want to knock off at the end of June 2022. Secondly, I pointed out last time that I know you're running around nervously because you're afraid I'm gonna break your record. It's not my ambition to break your reception record. I really don't have that ambition. If I can, I'll leave that record in your hands and make sure you keep the record of all time. That can remain a record for me for decades to come. The reality is that we are indeed facing a very serious problem of reception. That's a combination of a number of factors: Afghanistan... Mr Loones, you have already left the DVZ. That's too bad. I invite you to ask your colleagues about the situation in the Netherlands, where people are sleeping in a chair or in a tent camp near Ter Apel, or in France, where people with tens of thousands of people are in homeless care at the same time, or in Austria, where there are exactly the same problems. Of course, you must dare to look beyond your own country or region. That may be a little sensitive sometimes, but I'd be delighted to invite you. And so, Mr Loones, as far as the 2015 comparison is concerned, I know that nervousness is increasing when it comes to the record that could possibly be broken, but which I absolutely do not want to break. I would like to give it to the party. Meanwhile, I'm trying to work on solid solutions, because that was the question, I thought. Yes, it is therefore important that we have the resources to invest in sufficient reception capacity, but also a number of other efforts are needed. We don't get there alone with shelter. So there are certainly other aspects that need to be addressed. Disarray is important. Mr Francken, you say that we must work on this. Yeah, absolutely, and I think we do. Maybe there are still a few ways to dissuade further, and then I'd love to. Honestly, I'm reaching out to you. Let's see where which ways of detachment can work. If, in your opinion, it is the key to providing solutions on the ground tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I will do so immediately. Right away! We have a Chamber full of parliamentarians here who should be involved in the policy. This is ultimately the legislative power, which must be able to provide solutions. So if you tell me that you have conducted a number of distress campaigns that can provide solutions on the ground tomorrow, then we need to look at them immediately. I am therefore open to the campaign of disarray, and I would not know why we should not better inform people who come here and have no business here. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, so I am open to it. I found the question that was asked about the criticism you have received very interesting. I do not know exactly what criticism you have received from colleagues, but of course it is part of this. It is also difficult because Mr Loones is talking about comparisons between 2015 and now. It's also just hard to compare certain things. Criticism of "for example, "an organisation of a secretary of state, who together with one of his friends makes people appear on the basis of a list. I can see why that provokes some kind of criticism. So if you want to discuss certain types of criticism you have received, I understand that, but it is difficult to compare apples with pears. I know that this is a sensitive issue in the group, and I understand that. It's been a very painful moment, but things haven't been done. Now we have to look ahead and see what is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u107	I would like to leave the final statement on behalf of the future CD&V chairman. I understand that the Brussels Labour Court is requesting a criminal investigation from the Brussels Public Prosecutor into the instructions sent from the Cabinet concerning the non-collection of, and not providing assistance to, people in need in search of international protection. A criminal investigation is therefore possible. So I think you should be particularly careful in those cases. We'll see what the future brings, won't we? In connection with your comparison, you must be intellectually honest. You compare with the Netherlands. Until the beginning of June, they had 11,000 asylum applications on approximately 16 million inhabitants. In Belgium, there were 12,000 out of 11 million inhabitants. What else were you talking about? France with 45,000 asylum applications, while France is 7 or 8 times larger than Belgium. After Austria, we are the absolute summit on destination countries for asylum seekers, and that has been the case for some time now. This also applies to unaccompanied minors, which is a very serious problem. Look at the Eurostat figures, but I've got them here, I'll forward them to you. So be careful with all these equations. They don't always go on either. I am deeply disturbed that you announced that you would fight fake news, but the biggest fake news I've heard is that there would be strict screening at the external borders and that rejected people would be returned quickly. There is no quick return of people who are rejected, there is hardly any return. There is in fact no question of strict screening either, not if you interpret it as it should be, namely that there will finally be permanent responsibility under the Dublin Regulation. That's the point I'm making. I now come to my biggest criticism. You are now leaving your post early and your successor may continue the policy. You've been very high on the stakes. For example, you put a video online on YouTube with many promises, "respect for international law," "stop the asylum chaos.".. Very nice posters and a very nice video, but de facto the outcome of what you did in the department, after 21 months, is very thin. You're in a big crisis. You have a large group within your government larger than your policy contesting at its core. As of next week, you will be sitting there with a colleague who calls your policy 'unacceptable'. Those are very strong words! In particular, you have the problem that in the near future there does not seem to be a structural solution for the reception, especially of those who have been convicted. So it's gonna keep raining convictions. In fact, criminal proceedings may even be initiated. I therefore predict a great deal of misery for your successor or successor in the coming months. We're gonna stay ready to think with it. We have put forward a lot of proposals, all of which are voted down. Ask Freddy Roosemont: put the distress campaign that ran in 2018 and that Maggie De Block and Isabelle Mazzara immediately offline the day I resigned, back online. Communicate through very clear messages: Don't come to Belgium, we're not the country of milk and honey - and put it online. It will help enormously in the coming months if we finally say clearly that we are full. That's enough. We can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? This concludes the examination of the various themes of this adjustment, which, in principle, did not have much interest, but which ultimately retained the interest of all the members. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u109	We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2022. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2642/1+6) We begin by discussing the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the Budget for the financial year 2022. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2642/1+6) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article, as well as the annexed tables, and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the article that has been adopted, together with the tables appended, will take place at a later date. We turn to the articles of the bill containing the third adjustment to the general budget for the fiscal year 2022. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85) (2643/1+21) We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the third adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2022. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2643/1+21) The bill has 40 articles (Art. 1.01.1 to Art. 7.1.11. The draft law contains 40 articles (Art. Art. 1 (1) (a) (ii) 7.01.1).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u111	• 105 Marco Van Hees (2643/22)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u112	• 110 – Vanessa Matz (2643/22)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u113	• 112 Vanessa Matz (2643/22)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u114	Theo Francken cs (2643/22) • 103......................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u115	Theo Francken cs (2643/22) • 107 Marco Van Hees (2643/22)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved, as well as the annexed tables, and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted, as well as the tables which are annexed and will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip189x.u117	At the request of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, I propose to postpone the discussion of the following bill until next week's plenary session: the bill on various tax provisions, No. 2722/1. At the request of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, I propose that the discussion of the next draft law be postponed to the plenary session next week: the draft law on various tax provisions, No. 2722/1. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 23, 2022, at 1.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 23 June at 1.15 p.m.
