ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, I have a question regarding the faster asylum procedures. This government makes speeding up the asylum procedure a priority. Today, asylum seekers have been in a procedure for far too long, sometimes over a year. Figures I requested in 2021 showed that the average lead time was over a year. The ambition of this government, including your predecessor, was to reduce this to a maximum of six months. That ambition is fully shared by my group. A number of steps have already been taken, such as the recruitment of more staff from all relevant services. About a year ago, 700 vacancies were opened up in the asylum and migration services. However, if we look at the figures of the working stock at both the DVZ, the CGVS and the RVV, we have seen a continuous increase in the working stock since September 2020. We also see no increases in the final decisions taken by the Commissioner-General. On the contrary, we are descending again. I've got the chart on me. Today we have reached the March 2020 level. I have a few questions about that, Madam Secretary of State. How many of the 700 job vacancies are currently filled? On what services have these people been recruited? What will you also do to reduce the delay in the file and speed up the asylum procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u2	Mr Van Langenhove, I understand that you will combine your two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u3	Mr President, at least I agree with the previous questions put by Mr Vandenput. I have two more questions for you, Madam Secretary of State. It promises to be a very interesting answer, as you have been saying for a few days that the solutions are on the table. So I hope we will hear more about that today. Saying that we are faced with an asylum crisis is nothing other than kicking in an open door. You have increased the capacity, rather as chief of the cabinet and now as Secretary of State, to some 31,000 expensive shelters. However, they do not appear to be sufficient to accommodate all applicants for asylum who apply for asylum. As a result, Fedasil was convicted more than 1,000 times in 2022. At the press conference at your appointment as new Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, you announced that you would like to provide emergency care in the very short term. In an interview with De Tijd you even stated that it would involve at least 1,500 shelters in the short term. There is currently no clarity as to how the additional capacity should look concrete. From hospitality in hotels, as your green coalition partner has requested, you seem to be not in favour of it yourself. Capture in vacant capacity for Ukrainian refugees, as requested by your green coalition partners, does not seem to be an option either in view of recent developments. Another option that was suggested is the tent camps. Some of your coalition partners don't want to know about that. A number of balloons were also launched about the shelter in military barracks of Defense. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, do you exclude accommodation here and now in hotels and in capacity provided for Ukrainian refugees? I would like to have a clear answer to the question, contrary to what your predecessor said. Secondly, you say that in the short term at least 1,500 reception places should be created. Do you think that, in the circumstances, the budget of 680 million will be sufficient with enlargements? You're talking about at least 1,500 shelters. Will you then take into account that in the medium term it could become even more or much more reception places? Thirdly, in Time, you said that we should limit the influx and that we should make more people leave. Those are very nice talk, which we have heard for two years, also from your predecessor. What concrete measures, other than announced back-up campaigns against secondary migration, can we expect you to reduce influx and increase outflow? Are you prepared, for example, to tighten up the procedure for family reunification? My second question is summarized. In October 2021 Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg reached an important agreement, which should speed up the rules on the return of so-called Dubliners. For 2018, 2019 and 2020 there were 1,500 questions about Dublin transfers with the Netherlands, of which around 176 were carried out. For the same years, there were 195 questions about Dublin transfers with Luxembourg, 17 of which were carried out. In order to improve takeovers between the Benelux countries, agreements were made to significantly reduce the response periods between different migration services. That should push the results between those countries. The initiative at Benelux level should also serve as an example for cooperation with other European countries. At least that's what it was supposed to be. I have already asked your predecessor a follow-up question on this. At that time, however, the project was not far enough away. Today, however, that can no longer be the answer. Madam Secretary of State, do you see an improvement, in particular an accelerated implementation, in the Dublin takeovers? How many Dublin transfers, in order of size, have been made with the Netherlands and Luxembourg since the agreement was concluded? How many Dubliners took back the Netherlands and Luxembourg? How many Dubliners took Belgium back from these countries? In the meantime, have other countries applied to join this cooperation? In this way we can make the slow Europe work a little faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, let me first welcome you to this committee. As you know better than anyone here, we are currently facing a complex reception crisis which, unchanged, is likely to worsen. Indeed, summer is known to be conducive to larger migratory movements. However, I would like to point out that, contrary to what has been said a lot in this committee, reception is not an ecologist's whim, but an obligation that flows from international law. However, as such, we are attentive to respect for it. Proposals are on the table. Many have been mentioned in the press. What's the status of the discussions? I understand you've just taken part in an important meeting. What was decided on that occasion? Are there any new places planned? Is the possibility of getting people with a very high rate of recognition out of the Fedasil centres still being considered? I would also like to ask you about procedures at the CGRA level. It is known that many financial and, if possible, human resources have been made available so that procedures can speed up and thus avoid too long waiting for people – some of whom have been waiting since 2019 – in asylum-seeking centres. In particular, there was a problem with the commitments of the CGRA and the Selor, with procedures that are sometimes quite cumbersome. Other procedures were being considered for the CGRA. Is that still the case? Another important issue is the relationship with the communes. What are you going to do to recreate a bond of trust with these? Do you intend, for example, to consider larger subsidies for municipalities that have weak economic fabric indices and are in demand? Also plan to encourage and stimulate ALIs that are a solution that has worked in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u5	Last week at the start of your appointment, you announced that an emergency shelter would be built to solve the pressing lack of shelters that have been in existence for more than six months. But it is not enough just to increase the number of shelters. The outflow must be speeded up by investments in the CGVS. Structural changes must also make the reception network more resilient. The underfunded LOIs must certainly play a role in this. The fact remains that reception places need to be created in the short term. Of course, it is also waiting to see if the promises are cashed. I read in the press that a decision had to be taken in the government last Thursday. Last weekend you also announced in the press that you wanted to create 1,500 places in a short time. For that, there would be conversations with the Defense Department, among other things. I would have liked some clarification on that. What does it mean when you say that there are conversations with the Defense Department? Were you talking about the usual partners of the Belgian asylum network or are there discussions with other organisations about the construction of an emergency shelter? If so, which would they be? What did the government decide last Thursday in relation to the emergency shelter? When do you expect it to be realized? Who will vouch for the day-to-day operation of the center?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your new position. I understand you're coming straight here from her nuclear cabinet. I hope that will be possible in time. Perhaps you could inform Parliament first of all about what was agreed in the nuclear cabinet. Is there white smoke? What exactly will happen? What about the barracks? Will barracks now be made available? I read that Mrs Dedonder has agreed in principle to an additional effort from the Defence Department. What is this extra effort? I take it that came up today. There is also talk of an additional building with 300 places on the Brussels Lombard Street. Is that right? When can that be operational? I understand that it would take a lot of months, so that is not a short-term solution. What are your real short-term solutions? You spoke of faster procedures. We've been hearing that for a while. Additional staff must, of course, be recruited and trained. Before our protection officer is at the CGVS, we need at least three to six months. I assume that you do not want to reduce quality, which means that you simply need that time to provide these people with expertise in the countries of origin concerned. Where do you see opportunities and margins to speed up certain things, without compromising the quality of the decisions taken by the CGVS? It's not clear to me. Where's the margin in the asylum collection network? Why have you found it since last week and not during the 21 months when you were head of the cabinet? I cannot imagine that there can now be certain things that could not otherwise be done. I don't understand that very well. You certainly received a lot of extra budget. A lot of extra staff has been recruited. As Mr Vandenput says, output remains modest, too modest. We cannot be satisfied with that. I think that Mr Van den Bulck is struggling with this and that the whole of the CGVS is finding that difficult. The coronaperikelen is an explanation, but could no longer be the excuse, nor was the fact that four years ago the contract of a number of employees was not renewed. Time and again it is said that it is my fault that there is now a crisis, which is absolutely absurd. I also read your claim that I came up with savings myself, but I can only contradict that. I never came by myself with savings; they were imposed on my department, because development cooperation had to save from the nuclear cabinet. I've made savings proposals, very against my will. I find it odd that you're still quoting that. Mr Mahdi has done so consistently. He has chosen as Secretary of State to go into contramine from day one and deal with my policy. He has made a very high effort, and you, as then head of the cabinet, are the author of it. He has used slogans like stop the asylum chaos, respect for international law, no appeal! That all comes back like a boomerang right in the face. We'll see if you're doing better; you've got up to two years to do that. I'm curious. I certainly hope it gets better, because that is what the people are entitled to. To sum up, how can the recruitment procedures at the CGVS be accelerated? Where's the margin? If there is still margin, why isn't it used to be exhausted? With regard to Defence, what is the agreement and what is the timing regarding the additional capacity? Madam Secretary of State, if there is one thing that is painful about the right of asylum, then it is the periodic penalty payments and the convictions. You acknowledge that yourself. Indeed, citizens do not pay taxes to see them go up to periodic penalty payments. I absolutely agree with that. I also hope that you will not have to pay periodic penalty payments. So do everything you can to prevent you from paying them, Madam Secretary of State. You have the support of our group. Then, of course, you will have to come up with structural solutions, otherwise a judge will decide that you have to pay them effectively. What's the status? Have you already paid periodic penalty payments? Has the federal government already paid into an account of a lawyer, a private individual, and what amount is it? Have you consistently appealed? When is a ruling expected in the files in which you have appealed? How often has the Belgian State been convicted of failing to provide care? We first had 1,000 complaints, then 1,400 and now that number has already risen to 2,000 and it is increasing every day. Where exactly are we today? How many convictions are there? Which ones are enforceable? I'd like to get a little more explanation. Basically, I agree not to pay periodic penalty payments. Do you say no to hospitality in hotels? Do you say no to the opening up of reception places for other asylum seekers to Ukrainians? That is Mr Mahdi's position, but is that also yours? Is that also the government's position? I understand that at least one party in the government does not agree with that. Finally, I have a legal matter which I would like to clarify with you: you are the asylum expert in the Rue de la Loi, as the former Secretary of State bombed you. I don't know if that's a gift, because that means that you really shouldn't make mistakes, while there are a lot of people at stake to catch you on mistakes. I have questions about your position on the Dublin agreements. The position is still that it is a disgrace that we have to accept asylum seekers who are just travelling through, but that you cannot change it, because the Dublin agreements are European matters. That's right, but where does the regulation say that? In what law do we find that? I believe that the Dublin III regulation is linked to the European Reception Act. I seem to recall that your party was always in favour of this. I can't imagine you weren't involved in determining that position at the time. You have been the expert for your party for several years. So I think that argument is very cheap. We voted against the Dublin III regulation in the European Parliament. I find it particularly strange that a party that has supported the Dublin III regulation, i.e. the extension of the right of reception to streamers, has been very supportive of it, which is now calling it a major problem and is suing that it should never have been introduced. Anyway, the past is the past. You want to change the Dublin agreements in the future. This is part of the European Migration Pact. However, this is almost silent at European level, because the French Presidency was working on the elections and not on European migration law. The next president is the Czech Republic, a Visegrad country which has relatively tight positions in terms of migration. So my question is whether you see a solution. Do you think that the reception rights in the Dublin III Regulation will be adjusted? For you, the biggest problem is that asylum seekers have to move on and Belgium has to provide them with reception services, which makes the reception network saturated. You want to amend the relevant provisions. Is that still your position and do you see any chance of achieving that goal politically? Even more severe is the fact that Belgium must also provide shelter to those who, for example, were recognised as refugees in Italy or Greece and who are transiting to this country; that is not something that is sold to any human being, Mr Mahdi complained. He should not be taught anything in the field of communication. However, it is only about a few people. So that is not the big problem in the reception network, and you know it. It's toe curly, though. People who have already been recognized as refugees here again, is really crazy. Where do you get that from, though? What article of which directive or procedure shows that we must do so or does Belgium base itself on legal proceedings in giving that right of asylum? How's that right? I'm not the expert on asylum and migration from the Rue de la Loi. I know something about it. In any case, I do not find any such provision. My question is therefore rather a technical question. On the basis of which article are we obliged to re-enter recognised refugees travelling through? How will you remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I apologise for being so late - I am certainly not trying to make a habit of it - but I took part in the meeting of the nuclear cabinet to work out solutions to deal with the problems raised in the questions. I therefore believe that I had a valid reason and it is an honour to explain to you immediately the decisions of the nuclear cabinet on this matter. As I said last week in the plenum, the situation of the reception network is particularly serious. In this context, additional measures are needed to cope with the increased influx. That is why I made a whole series of proposals last week in the nuclear cabinet to find a solution to the situation. The proposals concern not only the creation of additional reception capacity, but also the reduction of inflow, shorter procedures and the improvement of outflow from reception centres. Fresh from the press, I can tell you that the nuclear cabinet has reached an agreement on a balanced package of measures. The package is based on five pillars. Firstly, we are creating additional reception capacity. To this end, we issue a public tender to organise collective reception places through private partners in an urgent manner. We also call on local authorities and NGOs to ensure additional collective or individual reception capacity. In addition, Defense will set up an emergency shelter structure that can be deployed in the short term. In a first phase, in the very short term, it concerns 750 places in hangars and, in a second phase, 750 places in container villages. Just so we're clear, DOD's gonna take care of a couple of cases. She supports us with, among other things, initial infrastructure and meal delivery, while the real support, the social support of people applying for international protection, will of course not be done by military forces, but in cooperation with humanitarian organisations. Secondly, as I said, we are also taking measures to promote the outflow from the reception network. The CGVS will be reminded of its responsibility to make as many decisions as possible, more than today. We are also working on an accelerated outflow of a group of residents who are staying in the shelters today, but can actually stand on their own feet, because they work and have a housing solution. If they work, they'll be able to rush out. Finally, we are also taking measures to reduce the influx. We therefore strengthen existing prevention campaigns with a specific focus on transit countries and other European Member States to reduce secondary flows. We are also creating a specific Dublin Centre, to which persons covered by the Dublin Regulation will be assigned to go through a tailor-made procedure, which will lead to better implementation of the existing Dublin rules. The centre will open this month and will be run by the Foreign Office, with which we centralise all expertise to work on Dublin transfers. I am sure that this balanced package of measures will show that the government is taking vigorous action. With the various measures, both in the short and long term, we will be able to deal with the situation better. A number of specific questions were also asked, including staff and the workload for asylum services. For example, we were asked how we can deal with the delay in the asylum authorities. The foundations for this were already laid by last year's historic investment. The additional staff should make it possible to increase the number of decisions, thus reducing the pressure on the reception network. 700 recruitments are planned, of which some 500 have already entered the service. As regards the backlog of the CGVS, there are 17,312 pending cases today, corresponding to 20,434 persons. Therefore, additional efforts will certainly be needed to overcome this delay. We will therefore provide for further reinforcement. In this context, we will not only recruit additional protection officers, but also various staff who will support the protection officers in terms of content, so that they can take high-quality decisions more quickly. Last week, the Council of Ministers adopted a first measure in the package for this purpose. For example, the possibility of making recruitment possible more quickly by working temporarily with fixed-term contracts was approved. That exception is necessary in order to be able to switch faster. We are thus winning a number of months in the current recruitment procedures. Several members also asked questions about reception capacity and prospects in this area. Fedasil and its structural partners will continue to provide additional places for applicants for international protection in the coming period. Several additional shelters are planned in the coming months, for example in Machelen, Sint-Laureins and Genappe. Mr Francken, the centre in the Lombard Street, to which you referred, will also be there. That won't take another month. The intention is to be able to open that in the next few weeks. There will also be containers on various existing collection sites. The efforts Fedasil and the Red Cross have made in recent years are enormous and we must not underestimate their impact on these organisations. It is the government's choice to opt for both individual and collective structures when creating additional capacity. As regards individual reception, local authorities will be called upon to examine how to create additional capacity. In addition, as I have already explained, emergency reception capacity is being created by the Defence Department in order to have sufficient capacity in the short term. As regards reception places for persons from Ukraine with temporary protection status managed by the regions, it is by no means intended to be used for other groups. Even more, the number of places available for people from Ukraine is already very limited and the Regions will need to step up their efforts. As regards detention sentences due to the current shortage of reception places, no periodic penalty payments have been paid to date. However, dozens of decisions have already been served by the labour court and not all of them can be implemented. If a penalty payment is imposed, it shall run until the execution of the sentence. We'll do everything we can to solve that as soon as possible. No individual periodic penalty payments have been claimed in this context and the Belgian State has not yet had to pay a euro. Following a conviction by the court of first instance in January, the payment of a penalty payment of EUR 100,000 was requested, but no further action was taken to collect it. Fedasil has appealed against a subsequent conviction of that court, which also imposed a penalty payment, but there is no verdict yet. As I said in plenary last week, I will do everything I can to prevent periodic penalty payments being made. People don't pay taxes to pay state convictions. As far as Dublin agreements and secondary flows are concerned, a significant proportion of the people in our reception network have already applied for asylum in another Member State or have already received international protection. That kind of application goes up every month. In June, more than 53% of applications were received. We have worked on a Benelux agreement to facilitate the transfer between the Member States concerned. Among other things, we have agreed on the deadlines, which are shorter than those laid down in the Dublin Regulation. Cooperation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg has always been good and is thus being strengthened even more. Luxembourg always manages to meet the agreed deadlines. The Netherlands averages a little longer, but in the Netherlands the inflow and workload is very high at the moment, as in Belgium. It is only since the covid restrictions on Dublin transfers have completely disappeared that we can work optimally. Those restrictions, such as the mandatory PCR test, which could be refused, have had a very significant impact on the feasibility of transfer decisions. 338 requests were sent to the Netherlands from the beginning of 2022 until May. In 175 cases, the Netherlands declared itself the Member State responsible. 33 requests have also been sent to Luxembourg since the beginning of 2022. 10 chords were obtained and 3 transfers have been made so far. Mr Francken, you also ask me a legal and technical question. I hear you saying that a lot of people would be on strike to catch me on a mistake. I'm assuming a little bit that you'll be there, too. You asked me about the legal basis for the right of reception for persons covered by the Dublin Regulation, because we do indeed have to take it up to the effective transfer. It is true that you did not find that in the Dublin Regulation. It does not appear in this document, but results from the Cimade judgment of the Court of Justice of September 2012. The Court considers that the asylum procedure of a person who has received a Dublin decision is still pending in the context of the right of reception, so that there is still a right of reception up to the time of the effective transfer. This is not only our view, but also that of other European Member States, following the Cimade judgment. Persons already receiving international protection in another Member State and re-applying for asylum in Belgium are also covered by the general rules for asylum seekers in terms of reception. They also have the right to receive reception as soon as they make their application for international protection in Belgium. You can be sure that I will not fail to raise these issues in the discussions under the European Migration Pact. In addition to the Reception Directive, therefore, an urgent revision of the Regulation is needed to resolve this problem and to combat uncontrolled secondary migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u8	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am impressed. Your answer was numerical and concrete. Thank you very much for the update you have given us here fresh from the press. You have given a concrete answer to my question: 500 people employed. I think it is very good that you said in the nuclear cabinet that the Commissioner-General should dramatically increase those figures of the decisions taken. You gave me the numbers. I have checked on the website of the CGVS, 40 to 45% are positive decisions. If, for those 20,000 people who are currently waiting for a decision, we can halve the time, from one year to six months, that will give us 5,000 free places. Then the pressure will automatically drop. That's got to happen next year anyway. I also said it last week in plenary, in order to cope with this crisis, we need to create a little more additional places to take care of it. I am pleased that the Defence Department is contributing and that the market is being questioned in relation to collective-private initiatives. I just want to ask you not to put too much pressure on the cities and municipalities. I myself am mayor, we are dealing with LOIs, we are dealing with 40 Ukrainians who we receive in our own homes. If we then have to do additional business, the pressure on cities and municipalities is already very high today, many will not be able to do so anymore. Bringing down those faster procedures and the pressure on the reception network is now the priority, but the influx must also go down. Something must be done about these Dubliners. I'm glad the Dublin Centre will be here. I've heard that this will be in Zaventem, or at least in that neighborhood. I know about the mayor over there. This influx must be reduced and there must be detachment campaigns. With these measures, we must be able to see a completely different situation within a year and be in calmer waters again. You have a loyal partner in us and have the full support to do so, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u9	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am slightly less pleased with your reply than Mr Vandenput. His analysis is correct and is, by the way, an analysis that the Flemish Interest has been making for a little over forty years: the influx must indeed go down sharply and the outflux must go up. However, we do not find any of this in the plan you have just outlined. My analysis last week was correct. You're just making the problem even bigger. Instead of making it smaller and turning off the tap, you just promise to mop up more. However, we do not see much of this mopping ourselves either. You call it a balanced package. It is perhaps a balanced package when you place the dark red and green parties on one side of the scale and the liberal parties on the other side of the scale, which have very little content. That way it might be balanced. However, when you look at the policy that the Flemings have been begging for decades, and among them the country moans, that is anything but balanced. There are already 31,000 places, which are very expensive for a country in full crisis. You still want to expand those places. You are calling for the responsibility of local authorities, NGOs, private partners and even the defence sector, which is finally getting and can invest extra funds. However, it seems that the defence sector must now concentrate on building container villages and setting up barracks and hangars to create 1,500 additional places. That's just madness. It is pure madness that after so many years we are still mopping, without turning off the tap. You're talking about faster procedures. That was also the magic word of your predecessor. However, these procedures do not make any sense if they do not return. What is the point of us treating a person's file more quickly when he or she ends up in illegality and possibly putting even greater pressure on society? That way it doesn't make any sense. You focus on secondary migration. With this you may find somewhere a great common denominator in your very left-wing purple-green government. However, this focus on secondary migration distracts us from what is really important. After all, secondary migration is only a part of the problem. Your approach, which you want to intensify, simply doesn't work. So you're muddy. We have not seen a balanced package here at all and an effective package even less.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u10	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your very comprehensive presentation, which included a lot of interesting things. Some of them will make us less happy, as representatives of the left in the government, but it is the strength of Vivaldi to find compromises and work together. I am pleased to hear that an additional step will be taken at the Defence level. It's been asked for months, even though I know that Defence is already making a significant contribution to the reception. I was delighted to learn that NGOs and other organizations will be concerted and mobilized in this crisis of reception. They have certain expertise and are there to support us as well. When you talk about renewal or new private spaces, are these centres run by private partners that will be extended? Will the specifications be clear? How will the control be operated? We have already had problems with other private centres and partners in the past. This will certainly be the subject of future questions in this committee. I was also pleased to hear that there was also a need to consult and rely on local authorities. However, I hear my colleague Mr Vandenput, who is a mayor, and I see that the municipalities are also suffocated by serious difficulties, particularly in terms of CPAS and personnel. How can we make this contact a win-win partnership? How can we ensure that the municipalities also benefit from the reception, a centre or places of local reception initiatives (ILA)? Some municipalities could see their subsidies increased depending on the context. I am thinking of Molenbeek, whose new centre is the subject of debate. Renewing a bond of trust with the communes will be crucial to overcoming this crisis in the coming months. I was very pleased to learn that some people who have a job could get out of the centres early. This also raises the question of how to encourage work among asylum seekers, knowing that many are waiting for very long months or even years. How to encourage training, how to ensure that people can look for a job? Your predecessor, Mr. Mahdi, had started working on it. We hear a lot about Dublin in this committee and you have distinguished very well the different types of "Dublinés". Not all of them have applied for asylum in France, Germany or the Netherlands. Some so-called Dublinees have been registered following an arrest in Croatia, Slovenia or Italy. Not all have applied for asylum in some countries. On the other hand, I would point out that there is an obligation to provide material assistance and that people who have applied for asylum in Greece – and even who have been recognised there – are in life situations that are untenable. They are on the street, in prostitution networks or mafia networks because Greece is unable to absorb or put on the labour market a series of asylum seekers. We have to stop this myth of Dublin people coming to enjoy a system. All studies show that people do not choose a country to benefit from a system, but rather depending on work opportunities and the diaspora. There are a lot of questions that need to be asked about this new Dublin Centre for People. Where will he be? What are the rights of these people? I hope they'll be the same as in any other center. How many people are we talking about? This will be the subject of a next committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that a plan has finally been approved at the nuclear cabinet. However, it remains waiting for the promises to be paid in. After all, every day those extra places aren't there yet, people stay asleep on them. At the moment, the crisis is also escalating. Just yesterday, the police asked all the people who were sleeping at the Little Castle to leave. I personally find that a disgrace if you know that they have been denied the right to shelter. I'm going to keep feeling you until no one has to sleep on the street anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u12	You are forgiven, Madam Secretary of State. If you come to Parliament with primes, you can be 15 minutes late. I have always respected that former Secretary of State Mahdi considered Parliament high. I assume that goes for you, too. We often disagreed, I often felt hard hit, but from the very beginning went into the counterattack. That's the way I am. As far as your plan is concerned, you rely on additional capacity through private partners. At the moment, however, you no longer have any credit with those private partners. It's completely out of... Spa has been taken over, with a large penalty payment. I'm wrong. It's not Spa, but you've already tendered for private partners, which you withdrew in a final phase because those places weren't needed. That's a lot of bad blood. Then, in October last year, a tender was launched for which no one signed up in the short term. Mr Rigot does not want private partners in care. The same applies to Ecolo-Green. That is a matter for Fedasil because they are more skilled and have more experience. The private sector has to stay out of this. I also know very well that the PS is against private partners for care. Despite the fact that no one signed in last time, out of anger, another tender is now being launched. I wish you every success! A second point concerns the LOIs. I'm mayor, and we just opened a Ukraine house. That's not full yet, so you can still send people. However, there is not much goodwill for additional LOIs. Former Secretary of State Mahdi had also called for this. There are 130 CD&V mayors, but only 7 mayors across Belgium have responded and thus created 30 places. It's run out, and the situation hasn't improved with the local authorities. I wish you luck. By giving some more money to the local authorities, they might find some places, but I'm afraid it's not that simple anymore. It's just run out, even on local boards. You also speak a lot to your mayors. There too, it sometimes grinds teeth. That is not because we do not like these people or because we do not understand that there are problems, but we have already had to manage quite a lot of crises. A lot of stuff has already been put in our bin. We have tackled the corona crisis, now there is the Ukraine crisis and rising inflation. It's not obvious. A third point concerns emergency care. You can speak of 750 places in hangars and 750 places in container villages. DOD's gonna do it again eventually, but where exactly are there gonna be places? There's gonna be concrete locations knocked off anyway. I can't imagine Minister Dedonder saying she'll be looking for those places. I assume that's been discussed over the past few days at IKW level. Can we know in which barracks there will be additional places? You'll also be working on an accelerated outflow. That was your second point, but I did not quite understand what you were going to do. There will also be additional places in Machelen. I have no problem with additional asylum centres, I am not the one who always asks questions about them, but Machelen is a very difficult dossier. I now hear that there will also be a Dublin centre in Zaventem. I also opened a Dublin centre in Elsenborn, in the middle of nowhere. However, Zaventem is the place to be, close to Brussels, everything is close, with everywhere transport possibilities. That doesn't have any deterrent effect. By the way, my Dublin Centre in Elsenborn was a failure. That centre was immediately full of everything you are doing, I have done so too, but the Dublin outflow is not working at all and that has, by the way, got worse. People just don't get those people to those other countries. They don't want them anymore either, with the result that the center is immediately full, but since there is no outflow, there is no new people in it either. I still have Dublin seats, too, and I never closed them. Maybe I missed that, but I thought they still exist. So it's not even new. It is now only grouped in a center. However, that center in Zaventem will soon be full and Zaventem will be able to keep it up again, Machelen will be able to keep it up again. The fray, the alienation of the Edge is already huge and that will be added. You say we will work on prevention. I noticed you didn't use the word "disorder." They will be prevention campaigns. Prevention of what? I always have to think about health care. The word "disorder" is not used. Within Europe, we will mainly be doing prevention for Dublin, so that they do not come. Madam Secretary of State, that doesn't work. Mr Mahdi has made maximum efforts to prevent Dublin and what effect has it had? There have never been so many Dubliners. Zero effect on Dublin and now you say that you will intensify those campaigns even more. That's a blow in the water. When will you finally commit yourself to derailment from outside the European Union? Put my campaigns back online, but no, you found that inhumane. I find the situation in which people are being chased away by the police from the Little Castle inhumane. Anyway, we can always disagree. You are talking about additional reinforcements and fixed-term contracts. I did, and I'm still getting my sandwich that I didn't renew it when they were over. We'll see what happens the day you don't renew those fixed-term contracts. Mrs De Bleeker of the Budget will one day bang the fist on the table. If these contracts are not renewed then we can have a debate in four years' time in which it is said by the Moor that we are now in trouble. Oh irony, everything comes back. You will recruit people with a fixed-term contract for CGVS. 500 men already work at the CGVS. All records are broken. More money, more staff, less output. At some point, it's gone. The budget is 20.7 billion euros in red and only money is pumped into it. I did not receive an answer to two questions. I have asked you very specifically how many periodic penalty payments have already been paid. You say that everything is going on, but that no euro has yet been paid and that you will do everything you can not to do so. You know you have my support, but I've asked you how many convictions there are to this day. You didn't answer that. That's probably gonna be over 2,000 by now. In this respect, I would like a concrete answer. People deserve that. I have an additional question about the overall budget for this. How many millions have you received in addition for those reinforcements and those places? Where do these centers come from? The people have the right to know if those 1,500 additional places in barracks will be near them. Are there going to be new sites or are those places in existing asylum centres in barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u13	You may put a written question to that effect and I will answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, since March 2022, the CGVS has no longer granted subsidiary protection to Afghan applicants for international protection. The takeover of the Taliban would reduce the risk of arbitrary violence. The new policy of the Commissioner-General ensures that many Afghans' requests for protection are rejected. Returning to Afghanistan is obviously not possible, because agreements cannot be concluded with the Taliban regime. According to the country information on Afghanistan from the European Asylum Agency, asylum seekers returning to Afghanistan are a risk profile, they are dismissed by the Taliban as not good Muslims. The UN Refugee Agency also calls on Member States not to carry out forced return of Afghan citizens. Since return is not possible, is the question what happens to Afghans' refused protection requests? We saw the footage from the evacuation from Afghanistan, how people clung to planes to get out of the country. With these images in mind, we can imagine that very few will return voluntarily. It is important for the Commissioner-General to be able to judge in full independence on applications for protection, but a solution is needed for those who are rejected and yet cannot return. I do not think it would help society to leave more people in illegal residence. The coalition agreement contains a passage saying that a solution is being sought for people who cannot return to their country of origin without their will. Stateless people are included. We need to look at this more broadly and perhaps some rejected applicants for international protection should be able to belong to that category. In Germany, the so-called non-repatriables are currently entitled to a temporary right of residence. This could be an inspiring example. What policy will the DVZ apply to rejected Afghan asylum seekers? To what extent is there voluntary return? Do you have eyes on that? You are pursuing a restrictive return policy, what does it look like in practice for this target group? How do you view the German model whereby the so-called non-repatriables can obtain a temporary residence permit so that they do not end up in illegality?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u15	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, my question actually concerns the latest information provided by my colleague, Mrs Platteau. About an hour ago, Germany announced that it was preparing to regularize some of the undocumented people on the territory. Indeed, in a bill submitted to the government, the Minister of the Interior proposed to grant a residence permit to non-expulsable persons. The draft law is intended for migrants who have been issued by the German State a Duldung which is a "tolerated residence" and results in a temporary residence permit in Germany for a limited period of time. It is generally issued because of obstacles to the expulsion of a person who has not obtained international protection. These obstacles may be the absence of papers or a serious illness. However, the obligation to leave Germany remains unchanged. As my colleague Platteau has said, we are, for the time being, really in the case of Afghans who are issued orders to leave the territory but for whom there is no return capacity. I hope that this government has not planned to sign a readmission agreement with the Taliban authorities. Minister, how many people are in this category in Belgium? What are the possibilities of regularization for this public in Belgium? Is the non-possibility of expulsion a criterion taken into account in humanitarian regularization? Have we planned to negotiate a readmission agreement with Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u16	There is no legal requirement for a residence permit for humanitarian reasons except that the person must be in exceptional circumstances. Each application must be considered individually and all elements of the file taken into account. However, the regularisation procedure is an absolute exception procedure. There are no figures available on the number of persons in Belgium who would fall into the category of the German draft law. In Germany it is not a temporary residence permit, but a suspension of the enforcement of the order to leave the territory, with some minimum social rights. In Belgium, if the person concerned is temporarily unable to return to his country of origin, there is already the possibility of requesting an extension of the order to leave the territory. For persons who are unable to return, a solution will be considered under the Migration Code. This status would only apply to persons who cannot return to their country of origin regardless of their will. A specific question was asked about Afghans' return. A negative decision of the CGVS may be appealed by the applicant to the Council for Aliens' Disputes. That appeal may or may not be suspensive. If the appeal is not suspensive or if the Council has confirmed the decision of the CGVS, the Office for Foreign Affairs shall examine on a case-by-case basis whether an order to leave the territory can be issued. If, after individual examination, it appears that Article 3 of the ECHR is not compromised, effective orders will be issued to leave the territory. Any person who receives an order to leave the territory must comply with this in the first instance. A voluntary return to Afghanistan is therefore possible in principle. As soon as an order is issued, these persons, including Afghan nationals, may be eligible for ICAM guidance. Moreover, it is quite possible that displaced Afghan asylum seekers may be transferred to another European Member State. With regard to your question about a readmission agreement with Afghanistan, neither Belgium nor the EU recognizes the Taliban as a diplomatic interlocutor, although they exercise effective control over Afghan territory. Any speculation about recognition is premature. You can address this question to my colleague in charge of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You refer to the procedure for regularisation, but that was not really at the heart of my question. Should anyone who gets rejected start a procedure for regularization? These are specific cases which need to be looked at as such. Mr Van den Bulck also pointed this out in the exchange of views in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. He says he assesses the applications and informs those concerned that they are not eligible for subsidiary protection, but the Foreign Affairs Office can of course make a different decision about their stay. That is why I asked you this question. You say that in Germany it is about suspending the feasibility of the order to leave the territory. That is an opportunity to deal with it in anticipation of more information on how people return to Afghanistan. There is the ICAM guidance and the voluntary return procedure. It is important to keep a record of this, so that we can see it and pursue well-founded policies. We really need to know what is happening to these people, where they are going or whether they are staying in Belgium and what problems they might have to deal with. With the figures in hand, I believe that we must conduct policies from a management point of view. I call on you to deal with this problem in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u18	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You talked about a voluntary return to Afghanistan. I doubt that many Afghan women from Hazaras and other minorities are willing to return to Afghanistan, but I know that you are very familiar with the subject. If I asked these questions, it was to try to objectify, to rationalize the problem or reality that is that of people who are not expelled. As we know, in this committee, we like small sentences, communications, tweets. We have seen this with the previous debate where it is suggested that ecologists want to open Sheraton hotels for migrants, or veto private temporary places. If we don't have solutions, we're critical of others. But either way, let's go. With regard to the Migration Code, I am pleased to hear that there may be some reflection on those who can be expelled. I would remind you that every day, when the Belgians turn on their radio, they hear about shortages in the Horeca, in health care, construction, transport, and events. It's been weeks since we've heard that there's been a real labour shortage problem. What Germany is doing is applying a humane, pragmatic and rational solution. I think we could very well agree within the government on a pragmatic solution for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 55029052C was postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, it has long been known that study migration is a not insignificant fraudulent migration channel. I have already asked your predecessor several questions about this. In particular, Cameroonian students wish to study at Brussels private institutions in order to cash their ticket to Belgium. It does not seem impossible to us that there are similar fraudulent practices among researchers, trainees and possibly volunteers. That's what we talked about yesterday. Do you have an insight into possible fraudulent practices in researchers, trainees and volunteers? If so, can you give more explanation here, if any, supported by figures? What measures will you take to combat these practices if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u21	My bill on residence for third-country nationals, researchers, trainees and volunteers was discussed and approved yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. Some of the issues to which you refer have already been discussed. I'd like to repeat it here. The legislative proposal is a transposition of the European Directive, which chose to transpose only the mandatory categories of the Directive. For example, it will only be possible to obtain a right of residence in Belgium on the basis of voluntary work under a European voluntary programme. This means that they are selected and subsidised by the European Union. Other voluntary work will not be a basis for obtaining a right of residence in Belgium in the future, just as it is today. In addition, several measures were taken to prevent and combat possible abuse in the drafting of the draft law. Firstly, the single permit procedure will apply to all categories, including the digital platform launched last year. This procedure ensures systematic monitoring of the conditions of residence by the regional authorities and by my services on the basis of a unique identification of the employer or host entity. In addition, in the current phase three of the further development of the unique point of contact, social inspection services have been provided with access to this information. Secondly, for each of the three categories, new specific grounds for refusal and termination have been introduced in relation to fraud and misuse of proceedings, both in respect of the third-country national concerned and in respect of the host entity. Thirdly, for each of the three categories, it is provided that the host entity must undertake to reimburse the costs of stay and return if the third-country national concerned is not legally resident. For researchers with a hosting agreement, this is already foreseen today, as explained yesterday, by the Royal Decree of 2007 on the recognition of research institutions. For researchers with a hosting agreement, the condition of the recognition of the research organisation by the competent minister is already a guarantee, but the acquisition of this recognition must therefore be subject to specific legal conditions. Finally, specifically for trainees, the regions responsible for admission to employment have provided for various guarantees in their legislation. These are in addition to the guarantees already mentioned which I wish to introduce into the foreign law at federal level as regards admission to residence. For example, the Flemish Region provides that trainees must have at least a diploma in higher education and that the internship on the basis of which they wish to obtain admission to work must be in the same domain as their studies. If, despite the various new preventive measures which I will introduce, there would still be abuse of procedure or fraud after the person concerned was granted a right of residence, the Aliens Office may terminate the stay of the person concerned on the basis of the grounds for refusal provided for in the draft law. We will not fail to tackle this fraud if it occurs to ensure that these migration channels are reserved for those who really want to work in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, you should have spared us that repetition. My question was whether your department has established fraudulent practices in recent years with those researchers, trainees and volunteers, as is happening on a massive scale with students. Are there similar phenomena there? Is that to a lesser extent or to a greater extent so? Is that very unusual? Do you have any figures? Did you know about that? Those were my specific questions. Your exposé of the last few minutes was unfortunately not an answer to a rather simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, in an answer to a written question I asked your colleague, Minister Verlinden, it turned out that almost 3,500 transmigrants were intercepted last year. That's a lot lower than the years before: in 2019 there were about 8,800. West Flanders is the big frontrunner: more than half of the facts occur there. Your predecessor, Secretary of State Mahdi, took the initiative to strengthen the outreach teams. Additional staff, a total of nine, was set up. Those nine managed to convince fourteen transmigrants to return voluntarily in 2021. In a whole year with nine men can convince 14 people, that is of course a grandiose flop. In the meantime, the pressure is increasing because of the currents. We all know the situation in villages such as Zeebrugge and in highway parkings such as Wetteren: ascension in trucks, sometimes aggression cases, burglaries in railway yards and so on. So that's a big problem. How do you evaluate the outreach teams? How much working time is focused on the province of West Flanders? What does that mean for the distribution across the provinces? What measures are you taking, together with Minister Verlinden, to tackle the problem, specifically for West Flanders, but also outside? After all, there are plenty of municipalities where the problem arises? How is cooperation with the local police? What further preventive measures do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u24	Mr Roggeman, we need to focus on structural solutions, such as informing about the asylum procedure and the risks of crossing to the United Kingdom. Wide-scale information does not always produce a directly measurable result. It is possible that someone may decide at a later date to apply for asylum or to return voluntarily, without the public authorities being aware of it. With regard to the work of Fedasil's outreach workers, who have a very difficult task, I can tell you the following. Two of these outreach workers are at the disposal of the province of West Flanders one to two days a week. The distribution of working time between provinces, and how the presence in West Flanders relates to the total, changes from week to week and according to the needs on the ground. You speak of a shift from the phenomenon to the West Coast, but that is not correct. In general, the shipping police intercepts most of the transmigrants, but these migrants mainly reside in Brussels, but also in the region of Tournai, for example. Obviously, therefore, we must and will continue to be active in all these regions. In addition to informing transit migrants, the federal government's focus is on the fight against human trafficking. I'm sure we shouldn't forget the court hatch. It concerns the detection and dismantling of the networks of smugglers who abuse people in vulnerable positions. In this context, various actions are already being undertaken, such as police actions, enhanced cooperation with France, consultation with the European Commission and Frontex, which has also led to Frontex's support for operations. There is, of course, consultation on the phenomenon of transit migrants between police forces, local authorities and provinces, in which the Department of Foreign Affairs also participates. My cabinet also organises on a regular basis a COTER Working Party on Transit Migration, where police, prosecutor, DVZ and Fedasil are present to exchange the necessary information and optimise cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u25	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I do not agree with you when you say that widespread information does not have a direct measurable result. Rather, it has a measurable result, because you just mentioned the figures: fourteen people. The effectiveness of this can therefore be contested, to say the least. I support your ongoing initiatives against human trafficking. It seems logical to me that the limited resources and capacity you have at your disposal should be used where they are most profitable. Perhaps it is advisable that you evaluate the outreach teams more thoroughly and that you use the people where they can have more impact, for example in the fight against human trafficking. I also believe that we can draw conclusions on the policy of voluntary return. Some of the initiatives taken are worthwhile, but we note today that they are disappointing in the results. In this respect, I would like to encourage you to focus on forced return measures. I think we need a sensible combination of measures and policies for both voluntary and forced return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, in last week's plenary, you stressed that your objective is to set up more European cooperation on return policy. For return, you must be able to count on the cooperation of third countries outside the European Union to take back their own nationals. You want to bet on that challenge. That is a good objective, but of course your predecessor also wanted to do something about it. Unfortunately, he has not managed to conclude bilateral readmission agreements with third countries. Would you please tell me where the bar is for you, Madam Secretary of State? What objective do you impose on yourself? How many countries and what do you want to conclude an agreement with before the end of the board period? In what way do you think there should be more European cooperation in the field of return? How do you think that should be reflected? Initiatives have already been taken in the past, such as visa sanctions against Gambia. But let's face it, Gambia is not our main partner when it comes to migration. What initiatives will you take yourself to increase the outflow of people who have to leave our territory? What does that mean for the staffing of your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u27	Mr Roggeman, I would like to begin with a correction. My predecessor has made return arrangements with many third countries. A formal MOU was signed with Suriname. Considerable progress was made with Senegal in the negotiations on an MOU. They can now be completed. Profits were made in restoring confidence that had disappeared in some third countries. Moreover, it is not about who signs the largest or most MOUs, it is about building confidence in cooperation with third countries and making sustainable agreements, which work in practice. I will focus on these kinds of agreements and immediately make the first foreign work visits and make diplomatic contacts in the coming weeks. Of course, the most important countries of origin are my absolute priority. The tragedy of the European system is that we do not always manage to speak with a strong common voice, but when the EU is united on return, and puts its full weight on it, that will be felt by the third countries currently pursuing a division and control policy. I believe that the appointment of a new European return coordinator is promising in this respect. As far as Belgium is concerned, the federal government approved the deployment of a network of return guidance agencies. I am convinced that we can guide the returners there better and more precisely than has happened in the past. That's what we're doing. Meanwhile, 50 return escorts are already working. Sixteen more will be added in the near future. Afterwards, too, there will be more. The system must grow and will bear fruit in the long term. I will also extend pilot projects for the reception and orientation of people without legal residence and, finally, I will also continue to implement the integrated infrastructure plan Return and thus create 400 additional detention places and additional return homes. I would also like to point out that the government agreed to a staff increase of more than 700 full-time equivalents for asylum and migration services, of which 333 are intended for removal services and closed centres. Some of the staff have already been recruited, and we are doing a lot of work to bring the Foreign Affairs Service back to full capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u28	Fair enough, correction accepted. Former Secretary of State Mahdi had concluded an agreement with Suriname and had made progress in his talks with Senegal. I hope that is not your objective. I hope you set the bar higher than simply booking claims in conversations. I had hoped that you would come up with a better, more concrete objective today. You indicate an intention, but I fear it will remain hollow if you do not make it concrete. Whoever lays the bar on the ground, of course, always gets over it. So please show a little more ambition. You have our support in that. Get rid of the six-year-old culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, I listened very carefully to you in plenary last week. You then stated that detachment will be the cornerstone of your policy. You want to carry out prevention campaigns designed to discourage people who have already applied for asylum abroad from doing so in our country. That is a positive initiative. In which countries will these prevention campaigns be launched? What is the available budget for this? Has the initiative been discussed in the federal government? Similar initiatives by other parties and yours have had a bit of discussion about this. Will your coalition partners agree to your initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, the influx of asylum seekers in our country is very high, with 1.04 applications per 1,000 inhabitants, which is still quite high compared to the European average of 0.66 per 1,000 Germany and the Netherlands are also currently varying around 0.66. So the claim that our country is doing too little is not correct, because we are already doing a great deal, especially in comparison with our European neighbours. However, it is a fact that we have the fifth highest inflow rate for asylum seekers within the EU and that our reception centres are full. We have just had a topical debate on this. The current situation is not sustainable, our asylum system cannot cope with this influx. Madam Secretary of State, what measures will you take to limit inflow and at least reduce it to the EU average? In this context, will you launch distress campaigns, both inside and outside the EU, as my party colleague and then Secretary of State Maggie De Block did?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, we have heard it in vain before, but in De Tijd you said once again that we need to limit the influx and that we need to ensure that more people leave. In this context, you mentioned the prevention campaigns, unfortunately only to combat secondary migration. We're talking about the Dubliners. Such campaigns have already been carried out among your predecessors. In view of the fact that large numbers of Dubliners continue to flow in - as you said last month, at 54% of the number of applications - the success of these campaigns seems limited. What do you think should be improved? What makes you sure that new supply campaigns for this target group will have the intended effect this time? In this context, do international counter-terrorism campaigns against primary illegal immigration not make more sense to you? When can we expect concrete initiatives in this area? Will they ever come? What other concrete measures, in addition to the announced back-up campaigns against secondary migration and hopefully against the primary influx, can we expect you to actually reduce the influx? I'll hint at family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u32	Colleagues, I do think it is essential to properly inform potential migrants about the possibilities of legally migrating and at the same time to discourage them from coming to Belgium irregularly. Fake news is unfortunately widespread in this domain, even in a world where you can consult everyone about visas for Belgium and how to apply for them. I believe that, above all, we should better deal with the influx of people who come to our country irregularly rather than those who use the existing migration channels and come to our country with a valid visa, through family reunification or for study purposes. I have already explained it at the beginning of this committee meeting, and we have just taken a series of measures in the nuclear cabinet, including prevention or information campaigns. There are then two different possibilities. These prevention or information campaigns can be carried out in Europe, but also in the countries of origin. We're gonna do both. My administration has recently conducted two campaigns in Belgium, specifically to counter secondary flows. Information campaigns on Dublin procedures have already been launched for both Moldovan and Afghan populations. These kinds of campaigns remain very relevant. Also in 2022, we see that about 50% of applicants for international protection have previously applied in another European Member State. That is rising, and we are now almost at 54%. The DVZ continuously analyses these data and sees clear trends. Then we take action and set up targeted information campaigns. Information campaigns are also being launched in the countries of origin itself. I'm planning a campaign in Georgia this year. There are also campaigns in the making in Vietnam and Nigeria. The campaign in Albania has been going on for several months since my predecessor visited that country. My services are therefore constantly evaluating the feasibility and usefulness of the campaigns. This depends on many factors, such as the geographical concentration of a target group, its accessibility or the specificity of the message. The short campaigns we have launched over the last two years for Brazilian, Surinamese, Chinese and Filipino target groups have had a very clear deterrent effect. We saw that effect almost immediately in the inflow rates. The campaign aimed at the Moldovan population has also slowed down steep growth. It remains a difficult exercise to locate the target group, determine the message and choose the medium that is best suited to reach the target group. A constant fact is that this type of campaign does work, but it needs to be repeated very regularly in order to remain effective. Important steps have already been taken under my predecessor, including the more active use of social media in campaigns. That is a path that I want to continue, in order to have even more direct influence in third countries. The former model of regular press campaigns and visits to third countries is not entirely outdated, but it needs to be clearly complemented by new communication methods to reach young target groups as well. The campaign launched in Albania with the support of the IOM to work with an influencer on the ground is a very good example of this. In the context of secondary movements, campaigns in countries of origin are very difficult. It makes the definition of the target group and the message very complex. My administration is working on a more comprehensive plan with accents on secondary flows. The Foreign Affairs Office has a prevention budget in its budget of about 600,000 euros per year. In addition, the DVZ can also submit projects to calls launched by the European Commission. In this way, additional European funding can be obtained for these prevention campaigns.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u33	Madam Secretary of State, I take it that no fixed budget has yet been set for the campaigns. You mentioned the total budget of the DVZ, but of course that was not the question. So I'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, I am glad that you have already set your agenda outside the EU, for example with regard to Vietnamese or Albanian refugees coming to our country. I wish you every success in that. It would be worthwhile analysing the causes of the various figures: 1.04 per 1,000 inhabitants compared to an average in our neighbouring countries and Europe of 0.66 per 1,000 inhabitants. I have listed a number of them, namely the good basic services in our country, a lot of employment, including in the informal economy, and the integration pathways. The regions also need to get started, because the Flemish Growth Package had a certain attraction. I understand that in Flanders it is the intention to reduce that to a third. After all, the Growth Package attracted unaccompanied minors who came from outside Belgium to our country, but also unaccompanied minors who came from Wallonia to Flanders. That has been proven, so we must also analyse it, so that the financial suction effects are kept to a minimum. Every asylum seeker must have bread, bath and bed here and be able to live decently here, that is obvious, but we must get the financial effects out of it. An analysis of that is worth it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u35	Mr President, I certainly share Mr Vandenput's analysis. Fortunately, the Open Vld is in the Flemish government and hopefully it will be able to do so very quickly. Madam Secretary of State, you would like to point out that in the countries of origin, as you would prefer to call them, the most effective campaigns or prevention campaigns are in the countries of origin. They are, of course, difficult to set up and always take place in a very specific context and with a very specific approach. However, the budgets for this are there, so that difficult will also have to succeed. I am convinced that we will earn back a multiple of every euro we invest in it, because migration is extremely expensive, mass migration is even more expensive and illegal migration is much more expensive. Any migration that we can prevent, especially illegal migration, will provide us with a great deal of money. I therefore hope that we will be able to extend the list of Georgia, Vietnam, Nigeria and Albania considerably so that the huge budget of Asylum and Migration is properly invested. Rather prevent than heal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u36	Last week terrible images of police brutality appeared at the border gates of the Spanish enclave of Melilla. They were shocking images. We see dozens of people lying lifeless in front of the fences, while the Moroccan riot police continue to kick and beat the men who are still alive. The Spanish police were there and apparently let them do it. As a result, at least 23 young men died and many others were seriously injured. A few days later, the Moroccan human rights organisation AMDH released a photo with unnamed graves. So the victims were buried without autopsy and identification. In his response, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, particularly expressed his support for Spain and other countries at the European borders. However, no mention was made of the victims. I thought that was very odd. We have seen a lot of violations of human rights at the European external borders in recent years. So we can say that it is a disgrace for Europe if we take European values into account. Refugees are becoming more and more criminalised and victims of violent pushbacks. What is your reaction to what happened at the Spanish border? Will you address this violation of human rights at your first meeting of the Council of Ministers? When will that be? In the meantime, Germany has asked for an investigation into the violence on the Moroccan-Spanish border and in Greece. Will you support that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u37	Mrs Platteau, these events are deep-seated and I deeply regret the loss of life, but equally tragic is that the victims thought that this was the way to migrate to the European Union. We cannot tolerate the use of excessive force by anyone, but also a massive storming of an international border by using force. Of course, this has to be investigated. I understand that in the meantime there are three investigations going on, two along Spanish and one along Moroccan sides. I can only welcome that. It is important that we know the truth and can condemn the use of such excessive violence. Situations such as these above all demonstrate the need for a European migration policy and a European border policy, predictable and clear. Firstly, we must do everything we can to avoid such uncontrolled situations at the European external borders by ensuring that these external borders are properly monitored. Border surveillance may and must be there, but the proper procedures must be followed, with respect for fundamental rights. Secondly, we need an effective and efficient procedure at the external borders, such as systematic screening and a quick return of those who do not have the right to be here. I am therefore pleased that steps are now being taken at European level with regard to screening and the Eurodac regulations. Thirdly, we need to inform people about how they can reach the EU in an organised and legal way. A storming of an external border cannot be the intention, and this has also been confirmed in international justice. Anyone who wants to come to work in Europe, study or be with family can apply to the diplomatic posts in the country of origin. Those who meet the criteria will be able to come to Europe safely. On 11 July, I will participate in my first informal Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) in Prague. The specific situation in Melilla is not on the agenda, but it will discuss further steps towards a new European Asylum and Migration Pact that provides structural solutions to these situations. In Prague, therefore, I will call for more cooperation, better management and better procedures, including at the border, which serve both the interests of the European Member States and those of the refugees and migrants concerned, so that hopefully we will never have to see this kind of horrible image again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u38	Madam Secretary of State, you also deplore the tragic events in Melilla and support the demand for an investigation and identification of all victims, so that we at least know who it is. You say that there must be border control and border control is, of course, a mission of Europe, but we must do so in a humane and correct way, with respect for human rights and for human lives. We must be very clear that the pushbacks that are happening more and more and which are apparently being tolerated are not really the future, because we know that pushbacks are not the way to organise border controls in a better way. You find it tragic that people think that this way they will reach Europe. That is an analysis you are making, but of course that does not mean that those people who we know are victims of smugglers and traffickers and who may have been lured to these places with wrong information should be violently prevented from reaching Europe and, in doing so, have to die. We need to see how this can be done in a humane way. We can make the analysis that migration at our borders must be done in a manageable manner, but the reality is different and we must deal with this humanely, without such excessive violence. We must also continue to look at these people first and foremost as victims of smugglers. We must not forget that when we implement border controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u39	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Doctors Without Borders opened a centre in October 2021. A reception centre was not really the intention, but at least it was a centre for a specific group of unaccompanied foreign minors in Brussels. Doctors Without Borders have tried to guide that very difficult target group, which often does not apply for asylum and therefore cannot go to Fedasil. These are children and minors who are very vulnerable and often have a long journey, during which they have been exposed to exploitation and have often been the victims of sexual abuse. The children often have medical complaints, such as malnutrition and symptoms of depression, but also all kinds of other physical and psychological illnesses. Those unaccompanied underage foreigners often don't trust the government. So they do not end up in the regular reception network. First of all, it is crucial that we can gain the confidence of these children, in order to further guide them towards a sustainable solution. Since October, more than 250 young people have found shelter and medical assistance at Doctors Without Borders. Past Monday, however, Doctors Without Borders announced that they should close the center. The operational director stated that they have demonstrated in the last ten months that, if they are offered a safe haven, those young people will come after them, but that they are not a housing organisation. They therefore ask the government to take over the shelter, because they saw it as a temporary crisis resolution. Doctors Without Borders also states that these young people have had a difficult migration journey and, as I indicated, have been exposed to violence, hardship and all kinds of abuse. Thanks to the project, the consequences of their migration journey came to light for the first time, which gives us an interesting insight. I have the following questions. What's the reason the shelter shuts down? Could the cooperation not continue? Were you aware that the closing date would be 15 July 2022? What alternative will you work out? How many young people have finally found their way to Fedasil's regular shelter? How can we ensure that we gain the confidence of that vulnerable target group? Caritas was also involved in the project and provided the social legal support of the young people. What does Caritas' project mean in concrete terms to motivate young people to apply for asylum? What lessons can we draw for the future from your experience with the project of Doctors Without Borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u40	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, at the beginning of this week it became known that the federal government would take over the care of unaccompanied minors organised by Doctors Without Borders. This project would involve a hard-to-achieve group that often does not even apply for asylum. We have had extensive hearings on this matter recently. What funds will be allocated to the acquisition of this project? What specific objectives do you have in mind? Is it the intention that individuals should still be persuaded to apply for asylum in Belgium, when they do not usually want to do so at the moment? It is a public secret that in some countries it has become an economic model to send minors on illegal travel to Europe. Are you prepared to argue at European level for a review of existing legislation, including flexible family reunification, exemption from the Dublin mechanism, prohibition of forced return and so on, which encourages and rewards the phenomenon of illegal youth migration, with abuse of young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Doctors Without Borders project is to reach minors who often remain under the radar. They are young people who live on the streets, have no faith in the government and often run away from the centers of Fedasil. They withdraw from the regular reception network and also from the regular residence procedures. The reception organised by Doctors Without Borders is complementary to the project Xtra MENA, which Fedasil is already funding today at Caritas. Caritas works outreach on the premises to inform minors living on the streets. The reception of Doctors Without Borders was designed according to the recommendations made by Caritas last year, after the field work at the request of the federal government. Thus, a resting place is created so that minors can think about their future. We cannot expect young people living on the streets to be able to do so. Doctors Without Borders organized that shelter during the winter months. Recently, the organisation has decided to stop these activities. It was their job to provide for the first humanitarian need. These NGOs are partners for us to reach that difficult target group, just because they don't trust the government. That is why my proposal to the Council of Ministers provides for the necessary budget to take over that project. I hope that the decision will be taken very quickly. In cooperation with the other actors involved, our services have already worked out a route for these minors, where they will be accompanied for up to three months in this accessible reception. We need to gain the confidence of these young people so that we can not only meet their basic needs, but also inform them and orient them towards the regular reception network and find a lasting solution for them. In this regular reception, we can, of course, continue to work on that perspective for the future. This may be about an asylum application, if the minor needs international protection, but also about a return to the country of origin or a reunification of the minor with a family member in another country. The first assignment is now to find a building. The Brussels Region wants to use the building where the shelter is organised today, but we are discussing a solution together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u42	I hope that agreement will soon be reached with the Brussels Region on the building and that the project can continue. In any case, it would be good if we could take the good practices from that project with us in order to continue to support and absorb such young people in the future. Working with NGOs is a good way to do that. It is exactly as you say: they do not trust the government. We are therefore dependent on those partners to support us in this. Take, for example, Caritas, who is acting outreaching, as you explained. I wish you every success in following up this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u43	Unfortunately, I have not heard much about prevention. We must prevent this from happening instead of healing. When we talk about reunion with the family, let's reunite those people with their families in the country of origin. There they are rooted, there they have a network, there they get more opportunities than here. You said just now that it is not a question of who can conclude most of the return agreements, but of gaining confidence. You know as well as we do that that's not true. The return agreements are the key to a fair migration policy. Just admit it, please, instead of wowing, if I may call it that. As far as the horrible images that reached us from the Spanish-Moroccan border are concerned, I hope, together with you, that we do not need to see such images often anymore, but I know better. It's gonna get a lot worse. You ain't seen nothing yet . For the report and for posterity it may be clear that that is your fault, not ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament 55029437C by Mr Moutquin and 55029442C by Mrs Daems are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u45	Madam Secretary of State, more than a year ago, your predecessor said that a simulation exercise would be carried out on his proposal, in which the European Commission would examine exactly how many migrants are coming where, after which it would be possible to assess the impact of, among other things, the distribution of migrants entering the EU illegally. Has that investigation been completed yet? If not, when can we expect concrete results? If so, what are the concrete findings of the European Commission in general and in particular as regards the numbers to be received in which countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u46	Mr Van Langenhove, following the launch of the European Commission's proposals on the European Migration and Asylum Pact in September 2020, the water between Member States proved to be deep. Differences in perception and rusted ideas made the concrete negotiation of legal texts more difficult. That is why my predecessor proposed a simulation exercise to the European Commission. The idea was to make projections that would give Member States insight into the effects of the Pact. A large number of Member States and the European Parliament have followed Belgium's call for a change of direction on the basis of simulations. The European Commission was no longer able to ignore that signal and then, first at technical level and after satisfactory results also at political level, developed and put such simulations on the agenda. For example, there was a simulation at the Council of December 2021. The technique gave a positive impulse and allowed for a more serene debate based on facts and data. The simulations thus proved to be a good tool for achieving a better understanding of the European Commission's proposals. In the meantime, the first concrete steps were taken towards the pact with the creation of a European Asylum Agency and a very important one, a few weeks ago, also a breakthrough in the Eurodac and screening files. This will make it possible to better identify and manage migratory flows and to make border procedures more efficient. This is an important step, but at the JHA Council in Prague, which I will be taking part in next week, my message will be that this is not enough. We must go further along this path and establish genuine European cooperation in the areas of asylum management, return and legal migration, and we must use all the levers that Europe has in its relations with third countries to achieve better cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic852x.u47	Madam Secretary of State, you are highly praised for the results of the simulations. I hope that we will see more concrete results in the coming months and years. Just like your predecessor and the predecessors of your predecessor, you would like to refer to the European Union, but I would suggest that you not only wait for the levers of the European Union, which turn out to be extremely slow, but do everything to ensure that the levers at the federal level - which are far more than some of your predecessors wanted to admit - are involved in a fair and firm migration policy.
