ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Chooz power station is located in the French Ardennes, three kilometres from the Belgian border, and it happens that my municipality is within a radius of ten kilometres of the said power station. Nuclear power in France obviously has a different history from ours and above all a different policy of successive governments since, for a long time, France has opted for a whole version of nuclear power while Belgium has opted for a gradual exit from nuclear power. There have been many debates about this decision in our country. On the other hand, in the presidential election, it was clear that in France there were very sharp positions in one direction or the other. History shows, however, that France wants to focus energy policy on nuclear energy. There was first the Chooz A power plant which is one of the first two first generation power plants that are being dismantled. The two current EPN reactors, I believe, produce 2,500 GWh. The population around the Chooz power station is 90% Belgian, but Belgians account for only 0.5% of local employment. This raises many questions about security and the future of security. Last March, French elected officials (the president of the departmental council, parliamentarians, and elected representatives of communities of communes) sent a letter to the French president, asking for the construction of one or more additional reactors to be added to the two existing EPNs. Madam Minister, in view of this and the proximity and impact on our country, particularly with regard to security, we have of course a security plan with the governors who are in contact with the prefects. But, at your level, have you been informed of a possible approach to the creation of additional reactors? What would be the information procedures of Belgium or Belgian bodies such as AFCN with their French counterparts at your department level? What would be France's information procedures in relation to Belgium? What would be the procedures for consultation, in particular of the local authorities which are obviously the first concerned, but also at the level of your department with regard to security plans? What is the state of your knowledge on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u2	Thank you, dear colleague Delizée. At the beginning of 2022, French President Emmanuel Macron announced the construction of six new nuclear reactors in France. As to the site selection, the operator concerned, EDF, indicated that the first two reactors would be built at the Penly site, north of Rouen. Two more reactors would probably be built at the Gravelines site. For the last two reactors, a site will be chosen in the Rhône valley. It is therefore important to stress that the Chooz nuclear site is not concerned. AFCN maintains very good contacts with its French counterpart, the ASN, which is responsible for monitoring nuclear safety and radiation protection on French territory. The NSA and the PSAN regularly exchange information on ongoing files, information on the procedures for authorizing nuclear facilities, and on the process of consultation with authorities and the public. Finally, nuclear regulators organise cross-inspections at Belgian and French power stations and learn about events that may have an impact on the safety of border nuclear facilities. In the case of France, these include the Chooz and Gravelines nuclear power plants. All this to tell you that there is close cooperation between the two countries in monitoring nuclear safety. As I explained before, for the time being, no concrete requests for authorisation have been received by the NSA. When the operator, in this case EDF, submits an application for authorisation in France, the authorisation shall be processed in accordance with the French rules. In this context, an environmental impact assessment and public consultation are also planned. If a site close to the French borders was to be retained, a cross-border consultation under the Espoo Convention, which is also transposed into French regulations, would have to be carried out in due course. In this case, and in the context of a French authorisation procedure, the Agence fédérale de contrôle nucléaire (AFCN), which is the competent authority for nuclear safety and the protection of the population and the environment for Belgian territory, will examine the possible impact on Belgium and, if necessary, decide on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for these answers, which are of a nature to reassure me. The Chooz region in the French Ardennes is not located in the sites you have indicated, nor in the Rhône valley. You recall the consultation procedures, which would be important. For the moment I am going to be reassured by the idea that Chooz will not be one of the sites chosen by France to increase its nuclear production.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u4	Mr President, Minister, in the committee on 30 March I asked you to follow up the 2020 inspection report on the South-East aid zone. You replied that there had been a new inspection on 15 and 17 February, but that the report was still in preparation. According to the 2020 inspection report, this area of assistance had to deal with all kinds of issues, including a work regulations, a multiannual plan, a risk analysis, a future vision for the barracks, better internal communication, a reorganisation of the services and a coaching project for the zone commander and the management team. A few weeks ago, the mayor of Aalst announced that there would be a fire station in his city. That would have been nice news, but I think it's more like an empty box. He claimed that the decision-making in the zone is stalling because the municipality of Lierde has initiated a procedure to step out of the zone. On 30 March, you said that there should be an opinion from the Provincial Advisory Committee, which will be adopted by a majority and that you would follow that in the Royal Decree. Do I interpret that correctly? Then it is not up to you that there would be a delay because you do not decide on Lierde's exit? Have you received the advice? If so, what does it say and what is the timing? Is the inspection report of 15 and 17 February ready yet? Can you tell me more about that? To what extent were the recommendations made at the time followed? Were new recommendations formulated and deadlines imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u5	Mr President, Minister, you confirmed at the end of March that you are aware of serious dysfunctions occurring in the South-East aid zone. The thematic inspection of 24 November 2020 showed that there is no approved labour regulations, that there is no multi-annual policy plan and that there is no detailed vision for the future, that there is a lack of internal communication and that there is a need for a coaching project, both for the zone commander and for the management team. Meanwhile, a working group would have been set up to address key issues. However, no timing has been imposed on the fire inspection because respect for that timing cannot be enforced. In the meantime, it appears that the situation in this area remains problematic. What do you think of the main conclusions of the Deloitte study that would have ended up in the slide? Is there any employment regulations in the meantime? There would be no agreement between the unions and the zone. The version of the zone contains many points of contention. Has a multi-annual policy plan been drawn up in the meantime? If not, when will this plan, and the employment regulations, if not yet present? How many firefighters and men does the rescue zone count? How many volunteers have left the last three years? Were there any promotions for firefighters? If so, how many? Did this happen after taking the required exams? How many vacancies have been filled for voluntary firefighters? How many are still open? Which firefighters have a company car? What is the situation regarding protective clothing? Not all firefighters seem to have full equipment. Is that right? Why is that, if it is? Are you aware that in the event of a fire in Geraardsbergen, a few months ago, the fire department could not even drive out in time because they were undermanned? The fire department had to come from Aalst, which of course took unnecessary time. Do you recognise that the situation endangers the provision of services to citizens? What advice did the provincial advisory committee give on Lierde's exit from the zone? Can the inspection report of 15 and 17 February be shared? What were the conclusions? Is there any intention to work with deadlines now? What is your advice to the parties involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u6	Mr President, Minister, you are aware of the situation in the South-East area of aid, where, as in other areas of aid, there is a problem of scaling up, financing and staff shortages at all levels. In addition to the lack of volunteers, there is also a shortage of staff from the management team because despite different selection procedures, a director of policy support has been insufficient for years. In previous questions, you referred to the procedure initiated by the Municipality of Lierde to leave this relief zone and its consequences and concerns for this area. What is the status of the procedure initiated by the municipality of Lierde? The Consultative Committee of 30 March gave a negative opinion. What is the state of play with regard to the development towards a 50/50 funding of the relief zones? How can you help our area of assistance to alleviate the structural shortage of professional staff as well as the staff of the support framework? What is your view of the trend on the ground regarding the reduction or otherwise of the use of volunteers in relation to the professional firefighters? There was a presentation 14 days ago about volunteers 2.0, a plan that could charm me enormously with regard to attracting volunteers for the area. The answer to part of my question has already been explained there, but I would also like to know the specific timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received the opinion of the Provincial Advisory Committee of 30 March 2022 as well as a minority note from Lierde. The Provincial Advisory Committee did not approve the proposal to amend the classification of the South-East aid zone in the Flemish Ardennes. The file is currently being analysed by my services. In addition, the report of the fire department is ready. It was sent to the South-East aid zone and to the President-in-Office for a right of reply, so that the report is not yet final. A look at the current situation shows that certain steps have been taken in the right direction, but that overall, for the time being, concrete results are still lacking in the form of the adoption of the necessary plans and the full implementation of the policy. The decision of the inspection report shall establish a list of priorities and action points. The Fire Inspector has no information on some of the questions asked. Here's what I can give you. In the meantime, a multi-annual policy plan was adopted by the Zone Council on 29 April 2022. The employment regulations were drawn up and submitted to the trade unions. The inspection expects rapid approval and the rescue zone is also aware of this. According to the information available to the inspection, operational personnel are equipped in accordance with the rules on collective and personal protective equipment. As I've already given, there are no deadlines. The fire department will, of course, follow up on the situation on the ground. The zone is also aware of the pain points and priorities. The final responsibility for this is, of course, primarily with the zonal and the zonal authorities. I would therefore like to call on all the parties concerned, both the members of the zoning council and the zoning board and the trade union representatives, to assume their respective responsibilities and to work constructively on the comments and recommendations of the fire inspection. In conclusion, Mrs De Jonge, for your questions on the 50/50 ratio, I would like to refer to Mr Florence Reuter's question, which is question No. 55017715C, and my answer to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There will indeed be a right of reply from the zone, which may make it difficult to really deal with the inspection report in concrete terms. I'm sure I'll ask you again. I myself have a great deal of respect for all firefighters, both professional and voluntary. I note, however, from conversations with them that the malaise remains high. A few formal steps have been taken. In particular, however, the coaching conversation, the trust and communication between managers and the workplace, so the people on the ground, are rather difficult. It is true what Mrs De Jonge says. It is a general problem of staff shortages. In particular, however, because things are not in order, people are not aware of their rights or possibilities, which cause them to permanently lose weight. I may have done it before, but I'll give you one example. Someone told me he volunteered and was in a difficult time at the time. He was involved in a divorce and had been less available on the app. After that, he was just fired, even though he's a professional fireman and still wants to volunteer. Now, however, he is afraid to return after his resignation, when he could have just taken a break. There wasn't really a staff department either, so no one informed him of that possibility. The same applies to the fire in Geraardsbergen. More and more people are dropping out. Especially in the corner around Geraardsbergen there is a problem with the number of volunteers, so the fire department sometimes arrives really late. That's why there's getting out of the zone by Lierde. I therefore hope, together with you, that there will be some improvement, both in terms of respect for firefighters and in terms of the safety of all residents in the area. After all, they deserve better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u9	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I note that your services are also studying the file. You confirm that there are no concrete results yet. Is it true that the labour regulations that have been submitted only apply to the professional firefighters, while there are so many volunteers in that area? That wasn't entirely clear to me. It is clear, however, that there is still a great deal of malaise in that area. I would therefore urge that, in order to restore confidence and restore a number of things that have gone wrong, we should, above all, give full transparency. The council members of the municipalities concerned should be provided with all reports from the assisted area. They should also be able to see a copy of Deloitte's audit and all other inspection reports by the higher authorities. It is useful not only for your services to have access to this in order to study it, but certainly also for the members of the local council in the area concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is true that the position has been taken that Lierde will not leave the zone because of the unfavourable opinion. Many understood the position of the commune of Lierde, but leaving a zone in the middle of a legislative term has financial consequences for that zone, which is not good. There is also a general statement to be taken into account. Various zones are also diversely composed. There are volunteer corps, professional corps and a mixture of them. The new regionalisation in Flanders is also an element. The merger of municipalities and the necessary investments in barracks and equipment cause a great deal of concern in many areas, where municipalities often apply to leave. That would also greatly recreate the fire scenery. The question is also how we deal with this at policy level. For the purpose of financing it was stipulated that, in addition to indexation, municipalities and cities should not pay more than what they paid in 2007. I can tell you that a lot of cities and municipalities in some zones pay double before 2007. This funding must therefore also be reviewed, as it has long been obsolete. As far as the recruitment of volunteers is concerned, I have told you that I fully support your plan. With regard to the inspection of the South-East zone, I would like to say that you have also confirmed that despite the tight staffing, a great deal of progress has been made. I must also acknowledge that not only the South-East zone is under pressure. I am part of the Fire Council as chairman of that zone and I notice that there are many common concerns in all these areas. I've been president for two years. It may be inappropriate to speak from that role, but I think it is important to know that we have been working intensively with the trade unions for two years. There are three disputes about the regulations. In the end, one trade union has said that they do not agree, which means that we have to go to the C Committee. That is a long procedure, in which we had expected a constructive attitude, but that ended in a different way. We are now waiting for the results. Indeed, the multiannual plan was approved with the vision. For the barracks plan is waiting for the attitude of the largest city in our zone, the city of Aalst.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u11	Madam Minister, I did have to mention a number of cases of sexual assault which have occurred by epidermal needle and which have broken out in recent months in the United Kingdom, France or Switzerland. Dozens of young girls, who had gone out to discotheque or bars, testify to waking up the next day with marks of bites and bruises on the skin. In Belgium, both the federal police and local areas say they have not heard of this phenomenon, which contrasts with testimonies collected by associations and lawyers specializing in sexual violence, but also on social networks and in the Belgian press in recent weeks. This has led my colleague Nathalie Gilson to question your colleague, the Minister of Justice, very legitimately. His answers have been so concise that they prompt me to question you in your turn today. Do you confirm that cases have been recorded in Brussels and Liège, as announced by the press? What type of drugs are used in these syringes? Is it easily detectable, for example by taking blood? What is the difference between this type of drug and GHB given in a glass, for example? The Minister of Justice did indeed mention that this type of drug (GHB). How many such cases have been recorded in our country at present? How many cases have been recorded in France and Switzerland, or even in our other Dutch or German neighbours? What are the risks that such injections transmit more than drugs, for example, diseases such as HIV, if the same syringes are used? Have you cooperated with your counterpart, the Minister of Health? Is it possible to carry out, in consultation with the competent local authorities and the federated entities, a preventive awareness campaign in the night world, for both customers and establishments, with regard to this type of risk? The Minister of Justice himself stressed the importance of seeing the Horeca not turning a blind eye to this new modus operandi of the rapists. Finally, what other measures have been put in place to prevent and limit this type of aggression? Is a circular intended for local police areas, particularly for police areas that do not yet have a centre for dealing with victims of sexual violence nearby?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u12	Madam Minister, I had already questioned you a few months ago about a phenomenon that had caused me great concern at the time, namely the proliferation of rapes in the area of the cemetery in Ixelles. At present, we are seeing a worrying new phenomenon, which has developed first in England and then in France, as well as in Belgium, Liège, in my region in Charleroi, Mouscron, Mons, Luxembourg... Many testimonies confirm that the needle attacks would have taken over our territory. I myself received the testimony of a person who was so attacked in Brussels. When we were 20, we went out in a box, like today's kids. Except they live in anguish! We must act to support, on the one hand, the world of night and, on the other hand, youth. Have you made arrangements with our police areas to make them aware of this? Have you collected a number of complaints that you could encrypt? Are you considering a joint operation with the federated entities? As Minister of the Interior, it is essential that you make all the necessary arrangements, also with police and victim support services that are naturally busy supporting them. Could they have been informed of this new phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u13	Mr. President, Madam Minister, following the Balance to Your Bar movement, the phenomenon of rape drugs in the night world has returned to the forefront. We just called him back. GHB has often been mentioned. Insidiously introduced into a victim's glass, he creates a state of drowsiness and amnesia in the victim. For several weeks, a new method seems to be spreading among sexual abusers. Eleven complaints were filed following the Dampicourt Ball on the night of April 30 to May 1. In early May, in Liège, two female students were drugged in a nightclub. On May 6, at the Incourt Rock Festival in Walloon Brabant, four people complain of vertigo, nausea, memory loss. On 14 May, in Mouscron, in my area, two people claiming to have been pricked went to the hospital to perform blood tests. They were heard by the local police. The edition of Sudpresse Wallonie picarde's day takes up the testimony of one of the victims. Angel, 17, tells us: "I felt like something sharp scratching my skin, before feeling a pinch on my right elbow." The same young man said: "There are still things that remain incomprehensible to me. We know that such individuals are in the crowd and we don't take things seriously or seriously. The police would have been warned far too late," he told us. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read these complaints about the same kind of testimony. What follow-up are they given or do you intend to give them? Since my group's previous questions and initiatives, can you tell me where the contacts between the police and security officers are in discotheques, bars and nightclubs to raise awareness and train them in the fight against sexual crimes and victim assistance? I would like to add to the other questions that have been asked. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u14	Colleagues, the problem is not centrally monitored by the federal police and, more particularly, by the DJSOC. It is more the responsibility of the local police, for which I do not have a comprehensive view. The prevention aspect is not a police task. In addition, it is not possible, on the basis of the information available in the general national database, to provide data on hypodermic needle attacks or on the type of drugs used in syringes. According to my information, even if it falls within the jurisdiction of the local police, the police are generally aware of the stories circulating on social media. However, for the entire Brussels-Capital Region, for example, only one fact has been identified. The type of substance used was not communicated to me. The problem of transgressive behaviour in the exit environment and the possible role of guarding agents were discussed within the caretaker training committee. This Commission provided for in the law regulating private and special security is chaired by the Internal SPF and includes representatives of the caretaker sector, representatives of training institutions and police training experts. During the discussion, it was agreed that a guarding officer should be trained to the following characteristics. First of all, we need to know what transgressive behaviour is and how to detect it at an early stage that commits or commits it. We must be able to intervene in transgressive behaviour. Finally, the victim must be properly welcomed and directed to the right authorities. The content of the training of child care workers is developed on the basis of the existing competency profile for the various child care functions. These profiles will be updated. An explicit reference will be made to the competences listed above. The objective will then also be reflected in the content of the compulsory training itself. For example, for a guarding officer authorized for activities in the middle of exits, the above-mentioned issues will be addressed in various courses, including the course "Management of conflict in the middle of exits". The expected new skills will also be reflected in the profile of the general function of child care officers so that they are also trained in this area. In addition, the initiative is also being taken to develop specific training for those who provide leadership at events so that guardians can also act properly in this context if they are confronted with possible transgressive behaviour. Finally, to obtain an answer to the questions concerning drug characterization, drug detection and medical risks, I refer you to my colleague in charge of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, even though I am a little bit naked. I hear that training has been put in place with the representatives of the guarding agents. This is obviously a good thing, but here we are touching the private sector. In this way, our authorities are completely relieved of their responsibility to protect young people in places of exit, which is particularly shocking in view of the Balance your bar" and the cases we have had to know every month. For the rest, you pass the hot potato to the local police areas, while the Federal has a role in supporting these police areas. There are circulars that can also be issued to their destination through your initiative. You also tell us that there is no information via the General National Data Bank in relation to the syringes used and the type of substances, whereas in case of arrest of a person for such facts, traces still remain. I do not understand how we are not able to objectify such a phenomenon in Belgium today. This is all the more worrying given the fact that sex offenders are constantly reinventing themselves with new methods to drug their victims, to rape them and to attack their physical and mental integrity. It is therefore necessary to be just as inventive – or even more inventive – than they are. So, why not make the client search at the entrance to the nightclubs mandatory? That is what has been done in some countries. Why not evaluate this measure? For the rest, indeed, awareness-raising and information remain the responsibility of federated entities and local police areas. But I think you still have a very important role to play. The issue is fundamental, Minister. It is necessary to ensure the safety of young people who have been deprived of their exit for long months and who have the right to go out safely today. At the same time, it is also a question of avoiding a situation of psychosis and anxiety, which would ultimately penalise an entire sector – the world of the night – which, too, suffered far too much during these long months of crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u16	You don't seem to care much about all this, minister. There is indeed a phenomenon that is rising – a phenomenon of anxiety – among young women. You, you tell us how the guarding works. That's very good. I expect something a little more offensive from a Minister of the Interior about a phenomenon that really worries young people. You tell us that "it's Health that would be competent at this level" or "caretakership works like this". As parliamentarians, we can read all of this in every room. We would like you to show a minimum of concern for this phenomenon, which worries the youth of this country and does not seem to bother you. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u17	The daily Sudpresse today publishes the story of what happened in Mouscron on May 14. Young people who have been the victims of this needle attack are obviously in spite and it is understandable. One of the victims is close to me. At approximately 11 p.m., one of the future victims received an alert message via AirDrop, indicating the presence of individuals with syringes in the crowd. These people managed to escape despite the guarding service put in place. The facts are no longer confined to discotheques and bars, but also, as in Mouscron, to events such as dance evenings and festivals. Now that the festival season is about to take place, I invite you to establish contacts and consultations with local police and security officers for this type of event. This will, on the one hand, raise awareness of this new form of aggression and, on the other hand, train staff in the care of victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u18	Mrs Bury, I would like to point out that the identification of minor victims of sexual abuse is always a priority of the DJSOC Child Abuse service, because identification is absolutely necessary to remove the minor from the abuse situation as soon as possible and also because in most cases their identification also leads to the identification of the abuser or abuser. Most abuses occur within the family or social circle of the minor. In order to achieve this, international cooperation is being used. The Child Abuse service uses the International Child Sexual Exploitation database, which is managed by Interpol. Access is highly secure and can only be provided by specifically trained police officers who have password-protected access from a work station in the DJSOC Child Abuse offices. The database contains images of victims and offenders with all useful information provided by the 70 affiliated countries, including, of course, Belgium. She provides information in real time about whether or not a victim or perpetrator has been identified and the searches are made on the basis of footage. In addition to the images, this database also has a platform on which all the associated countries, Interpol and Europol can share information on detected images, on the basis of which investigations can be initiated or continued. Within the European EMPACT project Child Sexual Exploitation and Child Sexual abuse, for which DJSOC is the chairman, a Victim Identification Taskforce is organised twice a year. Experts in this area from about 30 countries work together for two weeks full-time in Europol's premises to analyse images of unidentified victims, with the aim of identifying the victim or the possible country of abuse. The latter will then be sent an information report to initiate or continue an investigation. Via DJSOC Child Abuse, Belgian police forces can search the database or provide images to feed that database. The members of DJSOC Child Abuse can also start an investigation based on images found in suspects. I would also like to point out that the images that are tracked down by tools like Arachnid are usually known images that are offered over and over again. There is indeed an innumerable number of abuse images on the Internet, but any image that is removed means that somewhere in the world a victim is being helped. We should also remember that the larger the Arachnid database and similar tools become, the faster more images can be deleted. The use of artificial intelligence, with the associated algorithms, must indeed be considered. Clear procedures must be put in place for police forces to balance the fight against crime and the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u19	Madam Minister, it is very good to hear that minors are a priority. You talked about that Interpol database that's doing a good job. The article that is, of course, about the fact that such a mass of images is found that it often does not follow offline and identification. That's what Child Focus says. Of course, that doesn't mean it won't happen. You say that this task force meets twice a year and that all unidentified victims are being looked at, something that happens intensively over two days. How many victims are we talking about? These are images for which an identification has been carried out, but which have not succeeded or which have not reached that stage. I'm definitely gonna ask questions about that. For example, we can see whether it is sufficient that this task force meets twice a year or whether this is just a drop on a hot plate. I am also pleased to hear that you think that artificial intelligence and algorithms are definitely worth considering. With the extra budgets of Minister Van Quickenborne, 430,000 images can be analyzed every year. That is a very difficult and difficult task for the people who have to do it. They can only do that a few hours a week, because the images are so horrible. On the other hand, it is estimated that 19 million images of sexual abuse are posted online every day. I would have liked to have heard from you whether you could be a little more specific as regards the serious consideration of these resources. Where do you want to go? Who do you want to sit down with for that? How do you intend to further explore the use of those algorithms and artificial intelligence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u20	Madam Secretary, at the end of March I already questioned you about what is going on in the Secretariat of the Integrated Police (SSGPI). Your answers from that time still call for a follow-up of mine. In March, a strike announcement had already been filed because of the known problems. You then acknowledged that there were problems with the pay engine. You then proposed as a solution to put the necessary pressure on the executive firm to ensure that everyone is paid properly and in good time. That could have been a good solution. To what extent have you been successful in this? How did you put pressure on this firm? If that hasn't happened yet, will you take any action? Have you been able to figure out what went wrong with that particular firm? Does this firm carry out any other assignments? How can the same mistakes or the same clumsiness be avoided in other assignments? In connection with the savings on the appropriations of Section 17, you stated that the Management Committee of the Federal Judicial Police was instructed to draw up a strategic plan, taking into account the specific needs of the SSGPI. How's that going? Has a need analysis been prepared first? What role can you play in this? What deadlines are set? A comprehensive note on flex work within the SSGPI has recently been published which states that the employer must always be given the necessary resources to achieve this. Is that effective in the meantime? In the past, people had to work with their own laptops and unfortunately also with unsafe connections. Can you elaborate on this, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u21	Mr President, the problems arising from the implementation of this wage engine have already been discussed in this committee. In the autumn of 2021, parallel pathways were used to ensure that as many employees' wage data as possible were correctly processed. On the basis of that analysis, there was a manual intervention. The investigation is still under way as to what exactly went wrong. It's been decided to continue working with this pay engine. Together with the Minister of Defence, we have sent the necessary letters to the service provider to resolve all problems within the shortest possible time limits. Today, the service provider focuses on correcting all the data needed for the tax return for the year 2021 and on correcting some incorrect calculations in a permanent manner, so that they do not need to be updated over and over again. In principle, these two corrections should be completed by the end of May. I have received information that a lot of progress has been made. Of course, the target remains to correctly communicate 100% of all calculations and data to the staff of the integrated police. As mentioned, together with the Secretary of Defense, we have increased the pressure on the service provider. This means, among other things, that the last invoice will not be paid until the latest implementations and problems have been resolved. The invoice for the first quarter of 2022 has not yet been accepted. In addition, clearer deadlines have been agreed for resolving the remaining problems. At the moment, I can confirm that there are no general problems with the payment of the basic wages of the employees. Other problems that have a direct impact on the betting should be solved before the summer holiday. In January and February, however, there were problems for which the SSGPI asked the employer to intervene manually and correct the mistakes for the workers. This occurred one last time in February. These interventions have enabled those errors to be solved in a structural manner. There are still recalculations for the employees who were blocked at the end of 2021 as a result of the parallel trajectory, but are also working on it. Those data shall be analysed and corrected where necessary. As I just said, we expect all individual problems to be resolved by the end of May. It is so, and I say this in general terms, that such problems are not exceptional when a new system is put into operation. In total, they accounted for 2 to 3 percent of the staff. I would, of course, like to say that every problem is too much. We strive for 100 % accuracy. As far as the company's choice is concerned, it is certainly true that the advice on services was not negative. I also understand from the feedback from the SSGPI that cooperation is currently proceeding constructively. The supplier also gives the impression of wanting to do everything possible to solve the outstanding problems as quickly as possible. As a service provider, they are also linked as subcontractors to the implementation of the front end part of the new wage engine. There is therefore also cooperation around this. The follow-up is done by the employees of the SSGPI. The front end project is in the analysis phase. In any case, many tests are provided by end-users before they go live. Pending effective capacity measurement, as requested by the Finance Inspectorate earlier, the necessary budget was foreseen to increase the staff of the SSGPI to 115 full-time equivalents. In addition, as mentioned earlier, funds are provided for the modernisation of the front end of the wage engine. To this end, the SSGPI also receives additional IT material. There will soon be 24 extra powerful laptops and 8 desktops. A similar number of resources will be provided in the second half of this year. With regard to the BeSecure licences to operate safely at a distance, 18 licences were provided. Nine of them have already been granted. The same number will therefore follow for the SSGPI staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u22	Thank you for your clear and complete answers. I can only welcome your answers and will not say much negative. I also think that not paying invoices puts the necessary pressure on the firms. That's always a nice stick to keep behind the door.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u23	Madam Secretary, as Corona is slowly disappearing from our lives, we have come to know the word banging urge. Unfortunately, many take that a little too literal. Mayors and police zones see that the aggression at organized parties is taking on significant proportions. In addition, organizers of parties indicate that they find it very difficult to get enough security staff. The corona pandemic has caused a lot of people in that sector to seek another job, which is why there is now a shortage. In addition, the major festivals such as Werchter, Graspop and Tomorrowland announced that they will organise additional festival days this summer. So there is a real chance that the problem will only increase. It's about private security professionals, but it's also about police personnel. I'm mayor, and in our police zone, we're very concerned about this situation. In order for the local parties and festivals to run safely, I have a number of questions. Are you aware of the rising trend of violence at parties, parties and festivals? Do you have any recent figures? I'd like an explanation. Are you aware of the private sector deficits? Have you consulted with this sector, or will you? Can you explain the increase in the number of festival days by major organisers, such as Werchter and Tomorrowland? Can you give an overview of the number of police officers to be deployed for this purpose? Have you consulted with these organizers or will you do so? What initiatives do you plan so that local parties and other events can be carried out in full safety? What is your opinion on payment police in the light of the above?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u24	Mrs Verhaert, on the basis of the information we have, the police services do not detect an increasing trend of violence at parties or parties. First information from the private security sector indeed shows a temporary large request for private surveillance for events and in the nightlife environment. This can of course be explained by the catch-up movement or the banging urge at certain events after the pandemic, which means that a lot of events also take place at the same time. The surveillance sector traditionally anticipates increased demand, but no significant increase in training and licence applications has been reported on the basis of the figures in the competent administration for the authorisation of surveillance agents. That catch-up movement can certainly also be determined by large festival organizers. The deployment of both local and federal police forces is substantial, but of course they are limited to effective police missions. In the past, consultations have been held on the tasks to be taken up by the organisations themselves, through the use of recognised security agents and recognised volunteers under the Private Security Act. It is primarily up to the organisations, but also to the local government to assess whether an event, a party, a festival or another organization can take place in safe conditions. If the necessary level of security and the measures to this end cannot be guaranteed or are insufficient, for example through insufficient use of private surveillance or police, the mayor may, on the advice of the Chief Constable, refuse the consent of the event or authorise it, subject or not to the necessary security measures. Possible shortages in the private security sector do not mean that there can be a deviation from the rules on private surveillance or police deployment. An illegal derogation would undoubtedly pose a risk, both in terms of the use of persons who have not been screened or have not been properly trained and of visitors. This will not reduce the risk of incidents and aggression, but on the contrary, it will possibly increase the risk of incidents and aggression. Your question concerning the payment of certain police deployments and the implementation of Article 90 of the law on the organisation of the integrated police service is currently being examined within the framework of the States-General of the police. I cannot comment on this yet, but it is certainly a theme that comes back regularly to this kind of one-off events, but also to more repetitive activities such as football matches. The question about the police deployment for the three weekends of Tomorrowland should be put in writing. After all, it varies per day and per weekend for that organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u25	Madam Minister, I will put the question on the specific figures in writing. Within our police zone and within the surrounding police zones we do see really heavy aggression at the parties. We are also taking a number of measures against it. Prohibiting associations which have been out of income for a number of years and which rely mainly on volunteering may not be the right direction. After all, we need to support local events. Hopefully we can find solutions to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u26	Madam Minister, you may agree with me that rail passengers and railway workers deserve a safe train ride, including those in Brussels-North. The problem in and around that station is not new. You may be aware that employers in the vicinity of that station have their workers escorted by security personnel to the station and that the railway workers have also pulled the emergency brake. Recently, a railroad runner had climbed on a overhead line pole, which meant that rail traffic had to be shut down. Local mayors also gave the signal a few months ago that they were no longer able to cope with the situation, threatening to close the entrances to the station. The government then consulted with the mayors. The Brussels Region has also repeatedly indicated that the federal government does not contribute sufficiently to solving the problem of overnight migrants. The problems in and around the station thus exceed the effectiveness and capacity of the local police zones and SNCB. As Minister of the Interior, you can act alongside the municipal authorities in the event of problems of public order which extend across several municipalities or where the general interest of intervention is made necessary. The federal police, the Foreign Affairs Service and the Railway Police all have a role to play in this problem, but in the field it appears that the distribution of these responsibilities is not clearly defined or that certain actors are not sufficiently aware of their responsibilities. What's the status of the meeting with the mayors involved? What measures have been introduced since then? Who's what? Are there any measures that are still being studied? Where are the discussions with the Brussels Region on the problems? What measures have already been taken at this level? Are any measures still being studied in connection with overnight migrants? What measures do you think are needed to improve the safety situation in and around the station? What steps will you take to implement responsible policies in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u27	As my colleague says, Minister, this is nothing new. The transmigrants have been 'lodging' for a long time at the North Station and in the Channel Zone. It causes a lot of waste and urine everywhere, we all know what it's like. Violence is also increasing as a result of drug trafficking, prostitution and theft, leading to an increasing feeling of insecurity among commuters and neighbourhood residents. In the plenary session at the beginning of December, you rightly indicated that this would require a global, coordinated approach and that it would take shape with a large number of actors involved through the Medusa platform. Following an open letter from the Brussels mayors concerned, I asked you in mid-December about this problem. The ACOD Track and many commuters today note that the degeneration of the station and its surroundings is increasing significantly. Since the actions taken at the end of last year, the situation has not really improved. Are there still day-to-day actions under the leadership of the local police zone Brussels North, in cooperation with the federal police and the SPC Brussels? If not, what will happen if not? Following these problems, the assistance of the CIK of the federal police was increased. Is that still the case today? Has the Medusa Platform, in the presence of the Internal Affairs, Justice and Asylum and Migration Policy Cells, met regularly on this issue? What agreements did they agree on?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u28	Colleagues, I have already said that the situation in the North Station and its surroundings was the subject of several meetings between the Brussels Railway Police and the Brussels North local police. Other actors in security policy, such as STIB and Securail, were included in the dialogue organised, inter alia, by the Brussels Director-Coordinator. The Brussels North police area is responsible for safety on the public road around the North Station and on the floor -1 at the bus station of De Lijn, within the borders of its territory. In this case, that is Schaerbeek and Sint-Joost-ten-Node. Her assignments are the basic police assignments of a local police zone and of a first-line service. The local police will thus act in the North Station after an emergency call if the SPC is not readily available, even if it is not its territory. The federal police are responsible for security at the North Station, on the platforms and tracks and on the trains, in partnership with the security service Securail. In order to reduce the feeling of insecurity in the North Station, since February 2022 the Brussels Railway Police have significantly increased efforts there. Since then there has been a police team on patrol every day from 7 a.m. to the closing of the stations. So there are daily visible police actions organised around the Brussels-North station, and these are actions in the immediate vicinity of the North Station carried out by the local police station Brussels North. From 5 February to 13 March, intensive work was carried out at the station by so-called impact actions aimed at intensive monitoring. The railway police and local police continue to work intensively in the North Station and the immediate surroundings with all partners to ensure the security continuum. The neighborhood residents, commuters, traders and other users of the neighborhood have given us positive signals about the greater police presence. There have also been arrangements for improved cooperation between the Foreign Affairs Office and the competent police forces in the North Station district as regards the administrative succession of persons illegally staying in our country who are controlled by the police forces. There is still a ban on alcohol consumption on the territory of the Noordwijk, in Sint-Joost-ten-Node and in Schaerbeek, which aims to help police forces tackle the problem of public drunkenness. The problem of overnight migrants is a phenomenon that is highly correlated with the weather conditions. In addition, SNCB and STIB, respectively, have a winter plan, which, under certain circumstances, tolerates the residence of homeless people. A number of places in the building and station were identified as a positive attraction to stay overnight. In collaboration with the manager of the building, Infrabel and Securail, those places were evacuated and where possible also hermetically closed. The railway police remain attentive to the problem and intervene wherever and whenever necessary. The construction project on the site will lead to the station environment being a major yard in the coming years. For this reason, the building manager, together with the Brussels Railway Police and the Brussels North Police Zone, will sit together on a regular basis to evaluate security and take action if necessary. The co-production of security is based on the principle that the police alone cannot provide a single response to the security issue. The police are just one link to the answer that needs to be offered to secure the neighborhood. The municipalities of Schaerbeek and Sint-Joost-ten-Node and the Brussels Noord police area have entered into numerous partnerships in the district. It concerns in particular the partnerships with the trade associations, the schools located in the district, the associations representing sex workers, the associations representing drug addicts and homeless people, the large and medium-sized enterprises which have their headquarters in the station or in its immediate vicinity, etc. For this reason, each municipality is setting up a consultation committee for its own territory, where the services or partners can join forces to reflect on the approach together. The Brussels North Police Zone is a member of those meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u29	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the clear answer where I can get a lot of information. It is indeed important that taking the train should be a relaxing and safe experience for everyone. If that is not the case, people leave the train on the left, which cannot be the intention. Workers working near the Brussels-North railway station must also be able to experience this safety. I also realise that such situations are complex. That's what I hear in your answer. It is not obvious to solve this with one magic formula. I am therefore pleased to hear that there is consultation with the local police, the railway police and in partnerships with the various municipalities. I think we need to realise that coordination will be needed, because it is such a complex situation. In order to tackle such a problem, I believe that the federal minister should take on that coordinating role. In addition to all the good initiatives, in addition to the fact that there will be more checks by the local police and by Securail, it is also important to get a look at this overarching approach and to take it to heart. I would also like to say something about the overnight stays of the transmigrants. That is a very complex problem that will not just disappear. That is not helped by a few tough statements in the press. It's gonna take more than that. I expect you to take on a coordinating role here as well to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I agree with what Mrs Buyst said about coordination. I also think it is important that you take it on board.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u31	I would like to say that we are doing the same. That is why we attended the meetings on impact actions with people from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 55027707C) by Mrs Jadin and others: 55027871C by Mrs Chanson have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u33	Minister, the challenge of merging certain local police areas, for the partner cities and communes, is in particular to strengthen the functions of proximity and those related to communal public order. The merger of certain areas makes it possible to overcome certain shortages of staff or specializations in specific areas, while at the same time achieving certain economies of scale – particularly from an administrative point of view. However, they must be carefully thought-out mergers, corresponding to the realities of the field and guided by an obsession: service to citizens in a proximity approach. There are currently several projects in the Kingdom. It would seem, however, that during this process, some municipalities or towns concerned face difficulties as well as legal or administrative obstacles. Minister, can you tell me on what legal basis and on what criteria the merger of zones can now be carried out and whether new decrees are being drafted in this regard? If so, can you give me the schedule? Do you have an overview of the proposed mergers at this time, as well as their status?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u34	Mr Thiébaut, the municipal councils and/or the police councils of the police zones may apply jointly for the voluntary merger of their former police zones with the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, on the basis of Article 91/2 of the Law; Articles 91/1 to 10 and 257 quinquies /1 of the same Law organise a number of steps necessary for the implementation of the merger. Voluntary merger should aim to improve the efficiency and the capacity of the police areas concerned. In this regard, the local level is best able to judge the benefits of expanding the scope of the police zones and a thorough reflection on this must be carried out by all the police areas concerned. A request for a voluntary merger of the Binche-Anderlues and Lermes police areas was addressed to me and to the Minister of Justice. Following this request, a royal decree was adopted on 5 May of this year, defining the territorial jurisdiction of the new police zone, which is a condition for the establishment of the local police of the new police zone, and is the first step in the merger process. The first voluntary merger of police zones in Wallonia is therefore under way. Once the relevant decisions have been communicated, an order will have to be adopted in order to establish the local police of the new police zone. This step can only be taken once the above formalities have been completed, so that I cannot at present give you a precise timetable. Following the adoption of the second decree, the Royal Decree of 24 October 2001 on the designation of the police zones and the Royal Decree of 8 February 2001 implementing the Law of 24 March 1999 on the organization of relations between the public authorities and the trade unions of the police services personnel may then be amended. A request for a voluntary merger was also submitted by the Kleine Brabant and Mechelen-Willebroek police areas on 4 April this year. The Royal Decree defining the territorial jurisdiction of the new police zone will be adopted as soon as possible. These are the only applications for voluntary merger of police areas currently being processed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u36	Madam Minister, not only the number of injection-infestations is increasing, but also the number of stabbing incidents in our country is increasing, especially in the major cities such as Antwerp and Brussels. Unfortunately, minors are increasingly involved in this. In other countries such as Great Britain and the Netherlands, this problem is taking on worrying proportions. It has become clear to them that knives have become a hype among young people. The so-called drill rap groups are an example of this. They're gonna push things like that anyway. In our country, too, we seem to fall into the normalization of the carrying of stabbing weapons among young people. In the Netherlands the alarm bell has been raised with a broad national action campaign. This translates into the Drop your knife and do something with your life campaign where young people in many municipalities last year could store their weapons anonymously and without penalty in a container. The campaign is covered by the broader Action Plan Arms and Youth. This public initiative has a comprehensive approach to both preventive and proactive and repressive measures. In our country, such actions are limited to a campaign at local police level. Do you believe that there is a problem of stabbing in our country? Do you see a need for measures such as a knife ban or increasing fines for carrying a stabbing weapon? Do you see a need for a coordinated action plan? Have any steps been taken here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u37	Mr Matheï had already pointed out to me the Dutch campaign following a stabbing incident in the vicinity of a school in Peer. It is clear that the legislation on the carrying and use of knives is not or at least very poorly known by citizens, both adults and minors. I will contact the Minister of Justice on the launch of a awareness campaign on this subject. Knives are covered by the so-called white weapons, which are weapons designed to kill or injure by means of direct contact with the victim. If they are not expressly prohibited, they are freely available. However, this does not mean that they may be used unbridled, traded or worn. The carrying and use of knives is a violation of arms law. It is true that the extent of the penalty falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u38	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Everyone's working on their own to fix this. We really need to keep our finger on the pulse here and keep in mind that this will not become a problem as in Britain and the Netherlands. Unfortunately, these figures seem to be heading in that direction. You say that you are launching a campaign of sensitisation, but raising awareness will not be enough. As in the Netherlands, we will have to act both preventively and proactively and repressively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the information available on the Federal Police website, "i-Police is a strategic project whose main objective is to completely renew the IT infrastructure of the integrated police (server infrastructure, police-specific applications, etc.).)". On the same website, it is stated that a price analysis was launched in January 2020, establishing that tenders did not sufficiently clarify certain essential elements of the specifications. The press recently informed that the framework contract for the i-Police project would have been awarded to the Sopra Steria consortium at the end of 2021. This system, which would be financed by a government budget of EUR 300 million, including EUR 79 million from the recovery plan, is therefore expected to replace about 80 different applications in order to develop automatic searches of all databases accessible to the police. According to the press, it would thus develop a more efficient exchange of information between the police and citizens, through the standardization of digital declarations and central monitoring of cases, as well as increased guarantees of confidentiality and transparency, through regulated and limited access to their functions and missions. Minister, has the i-Police project framework contract been awarded? If so, in collaboration with which partner and for what amount? In terms of the agenda, what date is planned for the platform to function and what are the timetable objectives for the next steps in the implementation of this project, and what are the consultations with all the stakeholders involved? In view of the challenges of data protection, what are the strict guarantees of confidentiality and control over access to citizens' data and information? Finally, what are your intentions and ambitions regarding the training of our police personnel in this new platform and its use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u40	Madam Minister, yesterday's hearings with the magistrates revealed that it is certainly not an unnecessary luxury to continue investing in the i-Police. Some magistrates have given you a compliment because you have allocated a budget for this. However, the SKY ECC dossier has shown that this is not at present sufficient. The project has been running since 2016. We have heard that the budget has now risen from EUR 90 million to EUR 300 million, which is almost three times as much, and that is, of course, to be welcomed. Do you confirm that the budget has increased by over EUR 200 million? How will these resources be used in practice? Was the tender awarded to the French IT group Sopra Steria? What were the parameters for the award? Do other companies, whether Belgian or not, participate in them? Will other companies be able to take a piece of this monster project? What's the budget of this contract? What term are we talking about? The use of artificial intelligence is a fairly new slope, almost unexplored area. Its use must take into account the privacy of citizens. Are legislative initiatives needed to implement this in practice? Do you need to coordinate with Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne so that there is no risk of procedural errors? What guarantees are built in to guarantee privacy? When will everything be operational and rolled out? Can the local police still use their own systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, a framework contract for the i-Police project has been concluded. This contract is the result of an intensive purchasing process. In mid-December 2021, the contract was finally awarded to Sopra Steria Benelux SA. The award of the contract was based on the following criteria: compliance with functional and technical specifications, the maintenance of the solution, the feasibility of the solution and the costs for the realisation and annual maintenance. The public procurement procedure was conducted through a competitive dialogue, in which ten candidates from all over the world had submitted their applications. After the selection phase, three more were left, with whom the dialogue was initiated. Those three candidate contractors formed a mix of international and Belgian companies. The final contracted contractor uses subcontractors in which the companies Niche, Microsoft, Orbit and TA9 provide key applications and in which Belgian companies also play a significant role, such as KPMG and DXC. The framework contract includes stop-and-go clauses in case the execution does not meet the agreed standards. The expected duration of the contract is seven years (four years of completion and three years of maintenance). In concrete terms, this means that we want the entire platform to be operational at the level of police zones and federal units at the beginning of 2026. The framework contract is worth EUR 225 million, provided that all parts of the solution are ordered and delivered. At the same time, the police must invest in the IT infrastructure to host i-Police and parallel initiatives such as the Focus application, which are part of the same digital transformation and are essential elements of it. In this way, the total cost will be EUR 299 million. Initially, a budget of EUR 110 million over a four-year period was foreseen in 2016, with the aim of replacing the obsolete base databases in the ANG. These systems date back to a technological era in the early 1990s. Its maintenance has become expensive with increasingly scarce profiles that still control the technology at the time. Following the parliamentary inquiry into the terrorist attacks, numerous findings and recommendations were made. Those recommendations, which transcend the replacement of the old systems, were included in the objectives of i-Police. In this way, the scope has been extended to cover new forms of crime, the means of realisation and maintenance over a period of seven years, integration and investment in Focus and the necessary infrastructure investments. In addition, external expertise and guidance were also attracted. This year, the first developments will begin, namely the platform's technical base project and two pilot projects. The first relates to records management and the second relates to the use of so-called analytical tools that allow police officers to access and use various data more easily. During the period 2023-2025, work will focus on the adaptation and configuration of the software to working methods desired by the Belgian police. To this end, work processes have been grouped into areas such as neighbourhoods, trafficking, event management, criminal investigations, etc. In terms of methodology, an approach is defined, ensuring maximum involvement of field police officers. At the same time, an integrated police governance structure has been put in place to provide strategic direction for the i-Police project. From the outset, police training in the use of new applications has received particular attention and is an integral part of the project. It is contractually agreed that for each component of the i-Police application, training tailored to each target group be developed and offered by the supplier. Data management and protection were taken into account as soon as i-Police was created. Detailed requirements have been included in the specifications, specifying that the proposed solution and products should enable the police to operate in accordance with existing regulations and legislation. The i-Police solution will be, from the moment it is built, privacy by design. Thus, it will be possible to determine in detail who accesses what information according to the business process that the agent exercises. This method will provide more granular access and ensure the proportionality of access to the given information. Each use and processing of information will be recorded. As provided for in the law, each new type of semi-automated data processing must be subject to a Privacy Impact Assessment and must be subject to the advice of the Judicial Information Review Body (CIO). The start of the application of a new type of processing must always be announced in the processing register to which the COC has access in real time. The COC would also have access to i-Police platforms to ensure maximum transparency. The i-Police project is a solution where police information is hosted on federal police infrastructure. There is no storage of data outside the European area. In addition, the Integrated Police has launched a specific working group on data access and management. It consists of lawyers, field police and technical experts. Its mission is to develop and define access rights and data management responsibilities for all work processes based on the roles, tasks and nature of a file. In addition to the work to functionally determine who needs which accesses in which context, legislative initiatives will be needed to align police legislation with the new technological possibilities. Specific to the questions of predictive policing, the Data Protection Act of 28 July 2018 does not allow decisions based solely on automated processing. I would also like to reiterate that i-Police as a platform does not aim to use all kinds of new technological gadgets. The main objective is, as has already been pointed out, to digitally transform the basic effects of reception, community service, intervention, traffic, detective and victim care, which are the core tasks of police, so that the police can work more efficiently, fed by intelligence. No finality for automated decision making, such as predictive policying or profiling, is included in the contract award specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u42	Minister, I would like to thank you for a comprehensive, concrete, structured response that responds to the objectives set and to the strategic directions. This is in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. Of course, it remains to guarantee the budget, since you are referring to a forecast of EUR 110 million when we know that we are at about 300 million. This vast and beautiful project must be sustained and therefore receive the necessary budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply, in which you have once again demonstrated the importance of the implementation of i-Police. I understand that legislative initiatives will be needed to fully integrate this into our legal framework. I just hope that doesn't slow you down. We need to get started very quickly so that we don't miss the technological train. Crime is becoming more and more technological, as witnessed by the many forms of new crime, such as phishing and cybercrime. This has already been demonstrated on several occasions, and the figures also show this. If we want to fight these crime phenomena on the ground, we must also be armed for them, and one of those weapons is indeed i-Police. I'm glad you have an eye for the privacy of the citizens. It is indeed a difficult balance and we need to be vigilant there, but we also need to arm the police forces enough so that they can deal with these crime phenomena to the ground. Finally, I hope that the budgets currently allocated to i-Police, which I welcome, will not be taken into account in the overall calculation of the budgets needed for the federal police. After all, you know very well that the water is on their lips.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u44	Madam Minister, just a year ago, I was questioning on behalf of a citizen of the Republic of Luxembourg who died of a fatal road accident. What's the matter? Always alcohol and speed! Today, again I question the tragedy that happened, almost two months ago, in my commune of Strépy-Bracquegnies in La Louvière. A "piracy driver" who caused 6 deaths and 30 injuries, including 10 serious injuries during a folk rally. What's the matter? Always alcohol and speed. Last year, on our Belgian roads, 484 people lost their lives. Causes? I repeat again, alcohol and speed. One doesn't go without the other! That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you, on the one hand, about the statistics relating to the blood alcohol tests in recent months and those planned for the next few months? On the other hand, what additional measures are you planning to limit road accidents related to, among other things, a blood alcohol level above 0.5%, as indicated by the law, and in particular to make drivers aware of the fatal consequences under the influence of alcohol? Minister, I remain convinced that controls have more weight than penalties for accident prevention. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u45	Madam Minister, on Sunday, 20 March, a tragic event took place in Strépy-Bracquegnies in our commune of La Louvière, as my colleague has just pointed out. In fact, a car ran into a group of people who were collecting as part of a carnival. What was supposed to be a moment of celebration and sharing turned into a nightmare, taking the lives of six people and wounding some 30 people, some of whom are still today between life and death. As you can imagine, all Louvierois are in shock and especially the families and relatives of the victims whose lives turned that morning. The two perpetrators, the driver and his passenger, are known to broadcast on social networks videos of them committing speeding. Both individuals, with their fully assumed appeal for speed, have clearly demonstrated the terrible consequences that this kind of completely irresponsible behaviour can have. Measures must be taken to prevent those pirates from harming them. Minister, is the police regularly observing traffic offences posted by their perpetrators on social media? How does she become aware of the existence of such videos? What is the risk for authors if they get caught on social media through these videos? In your opinion, how do you explain the publication of such videos? Aren't the authors afraid of being convicted? How can we prevent this apology of speed on social networks that we are seeing more and more? Following the Strépy-Bracquegnies event, will additional measures be taken to combat this scourge, particularly in terms of prevention, even if it is not in your field, awareness-raising and education? Will you work with the Regions in this context? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u46	Ladies Leoni and Zanchetta, like you, I visited La Louvière last March to offer my condolences to the families of the victims of the Strépy-Bracquegnies tragedy. In general, complete data are not available with respect to the number of controls performed with respect to driving under influence. In other words, apart from BOB campaigns, the number of tests conducted in each police area is not systematically encoded. With regard to your request for statistics on blood alcohol testing in recent months and on those planned for the next few months, I would like to ask you a written question. Nevertheless, I can inform you that during the BOB campaign last winter, no less than 207,748 tests were carried out by local and federal police and that on average 2.65% of these tests were positive. Although a specific quota is not set for the coming months, both the local police and the federal police continue to invest in improving road safety through targeted actions. BOB campaigns are the most well-known example in this respect, but it should not be forgotten that the police also organise control operations. These continued efforts are indeed necessary to achieve and consolidate a change of mentality. A working group has been set up, in which representatives of the judiciary, mobility and the police discuss measures that can be taken to improve the effectiveness of driving controls with a blood alcohol concentration of at least 0.5 g/l. Finally, the various competent regional authorities also organise awareness-raising campaigns on this subject, with the support of road safety professionals, including the police. Mrs Zanchetta, the federal police do not specifically deal with this type of publication on social networks. However, under such circumstances, the police will attempt to identify the perpetrator(s) in order to prosecute them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will not fail to ask you a written question. Thank you in any case for the targeted actions that are multiplying on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that I also did not expect very precise figures, even though we know that this type of phenomenon is clearly on the rise. This may be a problem, as these are individuals who are increasingly spinning themselves, sometimes leading to speeds that are totally inappropriate. This was the case for the people involved; we know that. That raises the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u49	A few weeks ago, the photography sector took note of a written offer to all Belgian municipalities to provide live enrollment equipment, following a public tendered pilot project in autumn 2021. Live enrollment means that municipal officials should now be responsible for taking passport photos. For professional photographers, these photos represent a significant proportion of their turnover: some speak from 40% to 70%. Of course, for distributors of photo booths they form their core business. You received a letter from the sector in which he pointed out the dangers of the project to the profession. Professional photographers fear an economic massacre as a result of the spread of the live enrollment system in the municipalities. As self-employed people, they do not sit around and look for solutions. For this they look at both Dutch and French practice, where the introduction of a secure digital system without live enrollment takes place in collaboration with the photography sector itself. They set up the live capture method as a full alternative, whereby the private sector provides the digital recording and enables an automatic transfer to the municipalities via a secure system. Have the professional photographers been heard? Are they or are they not involved or are they no longer involved? Why? Are you prepared to respond to my invitation to look more closely at the problems with the sector? Is the alternative the professional photographers propose known to the federal government? Did you look at that piste? In what areas does the live capture system not seem appropriate to you? Are you convinced that identity fraud can be better prevented with live enrollment than with live capture, if yes, why? Are you aware of the fact that they started live enrollment in France, but that it failed and that they then implemented the live capture system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u50	Mrs Goethals, the fight against identity fraud is an essential part of the government's security policy. The Life Enrollment project fits in. In 2021, meetings were held between the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Home Affairs, the Belgian Association of Professional Photographers, and Prontophot. During that meeting, the photography sector submitted its own proposal. On the basis of the feedback collected from that meeting, the photography sector has further developed this proposal. On 16 February this year a consultation meeting took place between the photography sector and the foreign and home affairs offices. At that time it was agreed that the photography sector would be invited again to explain its proposal to the members of the Identity Fraud Task Force, which consists of experts from the FPS Home Affairs, the FPS Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Affairs Office and the Federal Police and which is responsible at federal level for coordinating the fight against identity fraud. The consultation with the photography sector took place on 21 April, so last month. The photography industry presented an alternative proposal at that meeting, which is currently being analysed from different angles, such as the fight against fraud, customer services, costs, as well as computer security and the protection of personal data. The analysis is done by the Identity Fraud Task Force and by a group of experts. Together with the Foreign Ministers and the Foreign Ministers of Asylum and Migration, we await the advice of the task force and then go further in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u51	I am glad to hear that the photography sector is closely involved and that all the slopes are being investigated. We must take account of the unemployment rate in Belgium, which is quite high. One of the government's objectives is to get 70% of people to work. I should not like to see a few self-employed people on the other side of the line. If live enrollment is really implemented, the municipal staff will get extra trouble, because taking a picture can't always take a few seconds, we think of pictures of young children and babies among others. In addition, there must be room for this. A roll-out of live capture would be good, as the photography sector can keep a finger on the wrist and therefore no jobs are lost. Nor should we forget the citizens themselves. Sometimes people still need some privacy when taking passport photos. I'll give you the example of the 10-year-old cancer patient who lost her hair because of the chemo treatment and wore a wig, but then had to drop her off for the passport photo. If one has to do that in a public space like a town hall, that is not funny. It's no fun for that kid anyway. It's horrible. Such facts must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u52	Minister, the scourge of drugs in our society continues to grow. We have still had long and broad testimonies on the occasion of the hearings of the Attorneys General and representatives of the Federal Judicial Police, about eight days ago, and not later than yesterday all day. The federal prosecutor had, for example, recalled that seizures had been exponential in recent years, but that despite this the price of drugs on our streets had not increased, which obviously suggests that stocks are well present on Belgian territory. In the face of this issue related to health, but obviously also to safety and public protection, there is an element that is not new. It concerns the protection of children and adolescents from drugs. This implies vigilance, as we know, also in schools. For many years now, school boards have been working with the police services in an effective proximity and a dual objective of prevention and control. A ministerial circular PLP/41 participates in this structuring between police and education services, particularly in the area of weapons-related risks. Indeed, the pressure of crime and trafficking can make the walls of schools porous. The examples are legion. Police areas, especially through reference points in contact with school management, also regularly check out the course or during midday. The testimonies of police officers are also legion. In such operations, police officers have again recently confirmed that 14-year-olds are selling drugs in schools themselves. Today, police areas often have a priority in their zonal plan to combat drug trafficking directly targeting young people. However, I was able to read a communication from Infor-Druges denouncing this work of prevention and collaborative control between school principals and local police. Precisely, the subsidized association states that these preventive measures are "problematic", that it is only the "pub" - this is the title of the article - that they pose a problem from the "legal point of view" and that because of them and the possible school exclusions that follow, "consumption is likely to increase". So it seems to me to be a matter of concern. I will therefore ask you the following questions. How is the partnership between school management and police services structured to enable such prevention and control actions? What regulatory framework governs these specific tasks? What analysis do you make of Infor-Drugs' communication about these police actions as to their legality and their negative effect in combating drug trafficking? What contacts exist between the police services and Infor-Druges, which, I would remind you, is a service approved and subsidized by COCOF and subsidized by Wallonia? Are information officers, who are specifically trained, being asked for in the context of drug prevention and control interventions in schools? What reporting or monitoring is carried out by CPPL and the Federal Police to assess these actions and the phenomenon of drug trafficking in schools? How many such actions in schools have been carried out, per year, over the last ten years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u53	Mr Pivin, before I answer you, I would like to point out that in Belgium the Communities are responsible for drug prevention policy. For this reason, the federal police can only respond in part to these problems. It is essential that prevention operations are based on proven effectiveness and that proper prevention of drug abuse meets certain criteria. We can say that it can sometimes produce the opposite effect and stimulate the curiosity of the target audience about drug use. Preventive operations can be organized locally in a variety of ways, but Federal Circular PLP/41 lends itself to the use of existing partnerships. The circular also states that in the area of alcohol and other drugs used in schools, a clear and coordinated framework for action is needed: either a drug policy, in which prevention and control operations can be discussed at best. Another possible way is through cooperation within the framework of the MEGA project ("Mijn Eigen Goed Antwoord"/"My Commitment to Guarantee the Future"). The project, which has been under way for many years in various schools across the country, was initially launched as a drug prevention project. In the meantime, it has expanded considerably and is supported locally by a genuine prevention partnership. Each year, it reaches more than 10,000 students. Belgium can be proud of several initiatives that have been taken and in which the police play a leading role. For example, the "Samen" drug prevention project in the police area of Pajottenland won the European Drug Prevention Award last year. The monitoring and role of the police in these projects is unknown. However, thanks to the partnerships established by the circular mentioned above and cooperation within MEGA, almost all police areas that included drugs in their zonal security plans are likely to have taken any action with respect to drug prevention in schools. The Federal Police do not have direct contact with Infor-Druges, unlike the VAD (Flemish Centre of Expertise on Alcohol, Illegal Drugs, Psychoactive Medicines, Gambling and Gambling). The latter contributed to the rewriting of a course on drugs, which the police conducted as part of the MEGA project. This course is now taught according to international standards and takes into account the published curriculum. Police officers who are involved in MEGA may take a 40-hour training course. Recently, a 16-hour course was created to provide training in follow-up and initiation to the MEGA project, with a focus on how best to prevent drug use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you. Your services must continue in the direction of a true monitoring of this specific mission. The figures on the Police, Education and Drugs Partnership need to be completed and refined, which will improve this collaboration. You are quite right to praise police work towards this goal towards schools. But in doing so, I also expect you to publicly condemn those who continue to denigrate this police work. The action of Infor-Druges does nothing but denigrate the work, the action of the police and also the work of the school boards. When you come to say that they're just making a "pub," it's not good for them. I expect you to be convicted of this kind of denigration campaign. In addition, you should ask your services to contact the subsidizing and supervisory powers so that Infor-Druges is reminded of its obligations. I will conclude on a very constructive note: I think it would be good for the police to contact Infor-Drugs so that the ASBL can provide an action plan with recommendations and suggestions on what it would be appropriate to do to achieve the only ultimately worthwhile objective, namely the fight against drugs in and around schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u55	Mr President, Minister, on Friday 29 April, former Frontex boss Fabrice Leggeri resigned following several allegations made against Frontex of involvement in illegal pushbacks. There was also an OLAF report that mentioned fraud at the Frontex summit, and in particular the cover-up of evidence of illegal pushbacks, which are serious accusations. The same April 29th, Frontex's board of directors also met. Two days before that, I asked you what the Belgian position would be, because Belgium is represented on that board of directors. You informed me that a disciplinary procedure had been initiated in that board, that you were preparing the Belgian position in consultation with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and that the Belgian representative on the board of directors would be given the necessary instructions. In the meantime, Leggeri has resigned. As a result, I have the following questions. Has Leggeri resigned voluntarily or has Frontex's Board of Directors insisted on this? Did Belgium, through its representation on the Management Board, request its resignation? Will the disciplinary procedure be continued? Can Leggeri also be prosecuted on the basis of the allegations made in the OLAF report? In the meantime, have you had access to the OLAF report? Do you have any idea when that report will be public? What does this resignation mean for the future of Frontex? What role can the board of directors play in the search for a new director?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u56	Mr President, I confirm that Mr Leggeri has asked the Management Board to terminate his term of office. A special meeting of the Management Board took place on 28 and 29 April 2022, with the discussion of that OLAF report on the agenda. At that meeting, the Executive Director was given the opportunity to explain his position on the OLAF report. On the first day of the meeting, however, he stated that he would immediately lay down all his duties and would like to terminate his service with the Frontex Agency. The Management Board then took note of its intention and concluded that the employment was consequently terminated. As required, the Management Board had to decide on the need and the opportunity to initiate a disciplinary procedure. This is done by means of a secret vote, which means that we cannot go any further on. In view of the resignation of the Executive Director, the Management Board decided that it was no longer necessary to initiate further proceedings against the Executive Director in relation to that OLAF report of 15 February 2022, as the outcome of those proceedings could no longer affect or would affect the position of the Executive Director. It is up to the judiciary to decide whether to consider whether a criminal prosecution should take place. The OLAF report itself is not currently public and the political authorities have not had access to it. In any event, the Management Board wanted to ensure that the Agency would not fall without the necessary management. Therefore, the Deputy Executive Director with the highest seniority was appointed as acting Executive Director without delay until the Management Board can appoint an ad interim Deputy Executive Director. After all, an Acting Executive Director cannot take strategic long-term decisions. The procedure for the appointment of a fully-fledged new Executive Director will probably take some time. In any event, the European Commission was asked to launch the procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for setting out the course of events again. The Special Management Board met to discuss the OLAF report. A disciplinary procedure would also be initiated, with a secret ballot. We will not know what position Belgium has taken there or how Belgium has voted. I regret that this is happening in this sphere of secrecy. I will see what the judiciary will do. I'll keep following up on this. You have not had access to the OLAF report. Transparency and accountability are very important principles in our democracy, especially in view of the Agency's budget. This is now even being increased to EUR 900 million on an annual basis. That's a huge budget, isn't it? In that case it is not too much to ask for transparency about how to do things within that organisation and certainly at the top of the organisation. Hopefully, the OLAF report will still be available. That's very important. Hopefully, the European Commission will also seek a successor. We would like to know what profile is being searched and where it will go with this agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u58	Last week on 11 May, representatives of the prosecution and of the federal judicial police made a distress call at the hearing in the Chambers Committee about the shortage of people and resources. They sketched a deafening picture of how many cases of serious crime remain without consequence. That is a serious threat to our rule of law. Yesterday, the hearings continued at the joint meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs and Justice, during which we were given the opportunity to hear Commissioner General of the Federal Police De Mesmaeker. We also decided yesterday that an exchange of views with you and the Minister of Justice will be organised. Without pre-empting the forthcoming exchange of views, I have a specific question following the hearings on 11 May. I learned from this that the government is already investing more in police, but that structural interventions are clearly needed. During the hearing, which focused on cooperation between judicial and local police, the Attorney General of Brussels suggested that the law on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels, would allow local police to handle some federal tasks. Do you intend to provide exceptional reinforcement to the federal police through a ministerial directive in accordance with the law on the organisation of an integrated police service? What is your view on the way the police are organized at the moment? Do you see any efficiency gains there? I understand that you cannot yet be complete in your answers and await the exchange of views with great patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u59	Madam Minister, it became very clear to us in recent weeks during the hearings with the Public Prosecutor's Summit that the government can no longer provide for basic matters, such as the security of our citizens. A shortage of staff and resources makes it difficult or no longer possible for police forces to deal with international crime established in Belgium. In a cry that has never been heard before, the federal judicial police are asking for an increase in the annual budget and, of course, a strengthening of the investigators on the ground. The Brussels Attorney General stressed that it had even informed the government of the precarious situation at the end of 2021 on the National Security Council of 1 December 2021. The question of whether the statement fell on a rock floor. Unfortunately, those were her words. During the plenary session, you indicated that the FGP could take advantage of the investments in the police during the current legislature. However, it is noted that a large part of the budget disappears in the big pot of federal police. For example, the staff budget is managed in a globalised way through corporate budget. The Organisational Division 42 therefore does not contain what it should contain in accordance with the law, namely a clearly identifiable, sustainable and foreseeable budget for the federal judicial police. It was also clear yesterday that with regard to Article 114, the Commissioner-General and the College of Attorneys-General were not exactly on the same lines. What has happened since the National Security Council meeting of 1 December 2021? What consultations did the government members concerned have after that meeting of the National Security Council? What exactly has been told or decided at those moments? Did you and/or the Minister of Justice request an increase in the budgets for the federal judicial police during the budget negotiations of December 2021? Did you and/or the Minister of Justice raise the problem of the FGP during the budgetary control of March-April 2022? If that is not the case, why do we see that no funds have actually been added? What budgets would have been asked? Finally, to what extent has there been contact over the past few months between the College of Attorney General and your cabinet? What was decided then? Is Article 114 of the Integrated Police Act being enforced for Section 42 in the budget? Is the rule of own allocated budget applied or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u60	I refer to my answer to questions in plenary last week. Of course, yesterday I also followed the second part of the hearing with the statement by the Commissioner-General and I am already trying, before the joint committee meeting, which you wish to organise, to reply to the questions raised. A possible directive implementing certain federal orders of judicial police by local police should be based on the advice of the Minister of Justice, after consulting the College of Attorneys General. The possibility of strengthening the federal judicial police is therefore not my competence, but that of the Minister of Justice. The possible improvement of the functioning of the integrated police at two levels is currently the subject of the analysis and preparation of the States General of the Police, in accordance with the choice made in the past. We are therefore subject to certain restrictions, but of course we cannot change that in a few weeks or months. We need to think this through. Last week there was an interim event of the State General of the Police. There was really bottom-up thought. There are several ideas about strengthening the police and the police of the future. Of course, the efficient use of resources for the police is also part of that thinking exercise. The intention is now to start work on the results against the second part of the States General of the Police at the end of 2022, spring 2023, of course in permanent consultation with the key partners. I am sure that we will discuss them in greater detail in Parliament. I have no taboos about the best organization for the future. Be aware that we cannot review this in a few weeks, whereas it was only raised at the meeting of the National Security Council on 1 December last year. Moreover, I contradict Mrs Goethal's assertion that nothing has happened since then, as I said last week. Yes, they are now crying out for help, but the problem has been known for a long time. That is why we have launched the States General of the Police and why, among other things, we have decided to increase the budgets. In addition, we have already opened up 400 additional posts for the FGP in autumn 2020. The fact that people are crying out on the ground makes us even more enthusiastic about getting to work. Of course, we must also find the staff. Following the meeting of the National Security Council, several consultations took place, among other things, with the people of the judicial world, including the prosecutors. There was also already consultation with the Prime Minister's cabinet and the Minister for Justice. In any case, I have never avoided any conversation and will not do so in the future, no matter what is said. Only together will we be able to find a solution, not by putting an internal or inter-conflict at the forefront. I have not missed a chance in the past budgetary negotiations to advocate strengthening the capacity of the FGP. We have made additional resources available. For example, 20 million euros from the relay plan will go to the FGP in full. I just answered a question about the railway police and the shipping police. The entire federal police force needs to be strengthened. In this balancing exercise, we are looking for an adequate use of resources. We are doing this legislature a total investment of 310 million euros. With the sectoral agreement, we want to make a job more attractive to the police, not only for candidates, but also for those who are already further in their career. We also work on iPolice and on lateral influx of specialized profiles. Some time ago, we asked the FGP to work with the DGR to draw up an action plan for the recruitment of these 400 profiles. But it is not because the resources are available that people with the desired profiles will be working tomorrow. These services should also reflect on how recruitment should be carried out. Despite the difficult budgetary situation, not only with the police - the resources are limited in the federal treasury - I will continue to advocate the additional budgetary effort for the FGP. I did that at the first budget presentation. I did that at the checkup. I will do that again in the autumn of the budget debate. I am counting on the support of everyone to repeat that message. Article 114 of the law on integrated police is applied in practice. We have already done that exercise with the GPI, because if one separates all parts from each other, one cannot do scaling. There is separate organisational department in the expenditure budget for the FGP, but there are of course also corporate expenses such as the purchase of cars and IT infrastructure that serve the entire federal police. If one separates everything, such matters are no longer possible in our balancing exercise. The assertion that we no longer have a view on the budgets of the FGP with this method is not correct. This can be isolated, and that is what is happening, while the percentage of corporate expenditure is being charged. That's the way it is for every department. In any case, it is about more than budgets; the recruitment of individuals with certain profiles and the retention of staff at the FGP are at least as big a challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed and clear answer. I look forward to an exchange of views with you and with the Minister of Justice. We have heard police questions for, among other things, additional budgets, but the following remains unclear to me. There was no answer to that yesterday either. We are talking about a shortage of staff and a budget deficit. The fact is that 15% of the established framework is not currently being filled in. You mentioned earlier that a job with the police should be attractive. But if the framework is completed, what is the need for staff? I agree with you and consider it equally important that we increase the attractiveness not only to attract people with specialised profiles, but also to retain staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It makes sense that the FGP wants to know exact budgets. After all, she wants to know how much she can spend, how much money she can spend in a working year. Every good company wants to know. Yesterday, the College suggested that the more budgets one gets, the more staff one can recruit - apart from the fact that this is not an easy matter - the more staff, the more things are solved and the more money one can generate for the state treasury. We must regard the increase in budgets and the appeal, especially in the specialist profiles, as an investment which the State makes in order to obtain a profit afterwards. What touched me deeply yesterday is the statement by the top magistrates that they see themselves condemned to the begging staff. They complain about very difficult communication and say that they have never met you. They have slept a cry for help, and they have had to wait two and a half months for an answer. I think that's a very long time, especially when it comes to a cry for help. Those are incredibly harsh words and it's time for action. It's not five to twelve, it's long past 12:15. Safety is not free and we will have to invest in it. We should definitely do that or crime will take over here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u63	Madam Secretary, at the beginning of this year, the city of Genk introduced eleven new route controls. In a few months' time, they already accounted for more than 34,000 violations. It is striking that only offences were detected by cars and trucks. The cameras record only the front number plate, both when entering and leaving the route control. The result is that motorcyclists escape the dance. After all, they don't have a license plate in the front. So I have three specific questions. What is your assessment of this problem? Does this also apply to the federal and regional route controls? Do they register only the front plate or are both plates registered there? Finally, is the principle of equality violated when motor vehicles and lorries are sanctioned and motorcyclists do not drive too fast on the same route?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u64	Mr Raskin, it is true that most route checks record the number plate in the front. It is also true that speed violations by motorcyclists are not established on routes drawn up in accordance with the principle of track checks. When the route checks were placed, a choice had to be made for the setting up of the camera. The main advantage of this is that the offender, who is the driver of the vehicle, can be clearly identified, thus avoiding discussion. In addition, this set-up opens up possibilities for the possible future identification of other types of traffic offences, e.g. breaches of seatbelt and mobile phone or other screen use behind the wheel. It also offers an advantage in terms of the detective police use of the information. The number of paths where cameras can read both front and rear are exceptional. There is no inequality in the law between speeding offences committed by cars and trucks or by motorcyclists. All these vehicles are subject to traffic rules and are fined when an infringement is detected. As I just said, motorcyclists cannot be detected at certain route checks that read the front plate. However, this does not mean that they will not be fined. Trajectory checks are an important tool for identifying speeding offences. However, they are complemented by numerous other fixed and mobile controls, which also control motorcyclists and thus encourage them to keep up with speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u65	Madam Secretary, that is a clear answer. It is a punishment to find that most of the route checks in this country apparently only read the front plate and that all motorcyclists get the dance if they commit an offence in those places. You also make it very clear that the principle of equality is not violated, because everyone is fined or can be fined when he or she commits an offence. Madam Minister, of course motorcyclists are fined when they are flashed by a classic camera, but apparently not when they pass most of the route checks. That's striking. I didn't know that. I don't know if the other members knew that, but it's tough coffee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u66	We learn every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u67	Madam Minister, it is not the first time I have questioned you about the problems of the historically contaminated sites, such as those of Umicore in Olen. However, I am very pleased that I can do so in the knowledge that a solution has been worked out. The new draft law you submitted to the Council of State for its opinion provides the FANC, as I have heard in the press, with the tools to deal with the problem of contaminated sites. You also said, in that same interview on regional television, that it will be able to enforce the necessary security measures and impose financial burdens on operators, as well as obligations to clean up the land. You have worked on this huge gap in our legislation. 'The polluter pays' is a well-known principle and a very important one for our group, so it is very good that we will apply it to this issue as well. If we look at the PFOS issue of Zwijndrecht, we will learn from this that covering and silence are not the right answers and that such huge contaminated sites need to be cleaned up. This will benefit public health and our environment. I therefore have a few questions about that bill for you. How will there be further cooperation between the various partners in this dossier in the coming years in order to monitor the restoration of the land? When will Umicore start this rehabilitation project in Olen and will it have sufficient funding for this? Has it already been decided which approach the project will take? So what grounds will be effectively reorganised? How are local authorities and local residents informed and involved in these rehabilitation projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u68	Mrs Buyst, we have been working for years on a legal framework for the rehabilitation of radiologically contaminated sites, and I am pleased to say that a milestone was reached on 29 April when my proposal for a preliminary draft law on the rules of the game for the rehabilitation of radioactive substances was adopted by the Council of Ministers. The proposal for a draft law was made through good cooperation between the FANC and the NIRAS. As soon as the opinion of the Council of State is available, the draft law will be submitted for discussion in committee. The draft law discusses several stages which need to go through the rehabilitation of radiologically contaminated soils. A plan is then launched and a clear framework is created. As far as the Umicore site in Olen is concerned, there is a very clear action plan, in which the FANC, OVAM and Umicore will work together to ensure that implementation of that reorganisation will be carried out in accordance with the rules. What is happening on the ground at the end of the day depends on the ongoing investigations. It is now too early to map that exactly, let alone know the financial cost. First there is the analysis, then an action plan is made, and during its implementation the planning will become clear. The partners involved in the whole operation, FANC, NIRAS, Umicore and OVAM, have set up a working group to follow up and implement the roadmap. This will continue to be followed up after identification. The actual implementation of the clean-up and disposal will take place in phase 3. According to the current estimate, this is at the earliest in 2025. The financial aspects should be further discussed between Umicore and NIRAS, as they depend on the content of the plan. The rehabilitation project at Umicore concerns the D1 landfill, the S1 landfill, the factory site and the final disposal of the materials present in the Banking Storage and the LRA storage. The temporary storage facilities are also included, which store cleaning equipment from, inter alia, the Bankloop and the infrastructure works on the Umicore plant site. Depending on the risk analysis, some of the scattered pollution in Olen may also be reduced. The communication around this project is very important. There have already been regular communication moments between FANC and the municipality of Olen. Both partners confirm that this is going very well. I went on the spot last week to announce the recent adoption of the preliminary draft. Of course, the reorganisation project will also be the subject of a public investigation procedure. Afterwards, there will be a new communication to the parties involved and certainly to the immediate surroundings of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear and well-founded answer. I am glad that there is now a preliminary draft and therefore a legal framework. I agree that this is a milestone, especially for our region. So it's time to get to work. You said that there would be an analysis, then an action plan, then the planning of implementation. The restoration would take place by 2025 at the earliest. I understand it takes time, but every Belgian deserves a healthy environment. It is therefore a good thing that we now know what is going on. For me, it is important that the polluter pays. Umicore must therefore be responsible for the restoration of those land. You mentioned all the grounds in one breath. I wonder if there might also be parts that could be repaired, for example D1, which is closest to the public domain. Perhaps this will be reflected in the analysis, and I certainly hope that this suggestion will be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u70	Minister, an in-depth assessment of the reform and operation of Emergency Preparedness has been underway for several months within your services, at your initiative. We can congratulate ourselves on that. I have asked you and your predecessor several times, in particular about the serious repercussions of the removal of the Ghlin Civil Protection barracks, particularly for security in my Mons-Borinage area. Delays in intervention have often become far too long. Today's press relayed the remarks of the governor of Hainaut province, who once again deplores the disappearance of the Ghlin barracks, following the accidents that occurred this week. Two trucks overturned in Mons, causing the highway to be closed. The motorists remained blocked for hours waiting for the intervention and equipment of the teams of the Crisnea barracks, which took more than two hours to arrive. Without calling them into question, the difficulty for them is remoteness, which once again proved to be a problem for civil protection, especially for the inhabitants of this region. Almost six months after the assignment of the study, I would like to take stock with you, Minister, of whether you have any initial findings or conclusions. Information is circulating on the existence of several scenarios, including a potential return to advanced posts. I've been claiming it for a long time. I would like your clarification on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u71	Mr Thiébaut, the evaluation of civil protection reform began in December. It is carried out by the University of Hasselt in collaboration with the University of Liège. A steering committee comprising representatives of the emergency areas, the Civil Protection and the federal and local polices accompanied the university team in the preparation phase of the various evaluation elements, as well as in the validation of the evaluation elements. The evaluation has two components. The first is a survey of civil protection interventions in support of its partners, carried out with a target audience determined in consultation between the university team and the steering committee. This survey is conducted through an on-line questionnaire on, among other things, the frequency of their use of Civil Protection services, their knowledge of civil protection reform, their satisfaction with civil protection interventions, their degree of collaboration with Civil Protection in exercises, the situation of the two Civil Protection barracks and the future of Civil Protection. Next, there is the interview with a case study around some central themes systematically adapted according to the partner, the interviewee, the context of the work, etc. The themes are a kind of thread in the interview that addresses, among other things, the impact of civil protection reform, expectations for it, and its deployment procedures. The second component is a survey of a study of the implementation of the Civil Protection operational units based on a number of scenarios as to the number of Civil Protection barracks and/or outposts that are analyzed taking into account regional and provincial boundaries. The preparation phase of the evaluation is, of course, determined at this stage. The research phases, including interviews and analyses, are under way and are nearing completion. It will be up to the university team to prepare its final report, which is expected to be available in July. I am therefore not yet in a position to present the contents of this report to you. In addition, I prefer to submit a final report rather than intermediate and incomplete results that are still likely to be further developed or refined. But I will reserve the first time for Parliament, because it must not be forgotten that it was following a motion for a resolution tabled on its initiative that I decided to undertake the evaluation of civil protection reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I have the date of July. Having said that, I must tell you that you have not taught me anything, since I have completed this questionnaire as a mayor. It was quite complete. I hope that the conclusions of this study will go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u73	Mr Depoostere, I want to guarantee the safety of the spectators for all football matches and tackle incidents of supporter violence. Of course, I can't and I won't do that alone. Both the football world and the public players must assume their responsibility for safer football, each from their specific roles and competences. The Action Plan Together for Safe Football offers a wide range of measures and actions that are now being unfolded and further developed. For example, the football clubs themselves have announced stricter civil stadium bans. Within the current penalty fork provided for in the football law, stricter sanctions and higher fines will be imposed. On the basis of the existing penalty forks, sanctions can be imposed up to five years of stadium ban and a fine of up to 5,000 euros. Together with the police, the Football Cell is also working on making a perimeter ban applicable and the immediate police stadium ban will be applied more frequently. As a result of an earlier oral question, I indicated that my administration is also committed to developing a possible cross-border stadium ban. In addition, work is also under way to amend the football law to allow stricter penalties, specifically for physical violence, unlawful use of pyrotechnics, racism and discrimination. The security staff's control powers will be extended so that they can verify the identity of supporters in order to verify their compliance with the name on the ticket or ticket. In parallel, specific attention will be paid to the registration of an increase in penalties for acts of violence against stewards and other security officers. The last actions require a change of law. The intention is to move forward as quickly as possible. The tickets will only be sold by name in the future. Regulatory work has already been done. There is currently an MB for advice from the Council of State. This measure could therefore enter into force in principle before the start of the new football season. In any case, it is not the intention to make the lives of ordinary fans, the willing supporters, more difficult. That's the balance we're looking for. The costs of implementing the action plan will mainly be borne by football clubs. For example, they will make the necessary investments in camera systems. The Pro League CEO gave himself five years. This does not, of course, mean that the action plan will be implemented for five years. Several measures will already be available at the start of the new football season. Others, such as cameras, which also have to take account of European regulations, may require additional time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-18-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic793x.u74	Madam Secretary, I would like to raise a number of points. First of all, I notice that there was no discussion in the coverage of a consultation with the supporters' associations. I know that some supporters unite in federations, some of which are even fairly well organized. In the past, they have been an interlocutor with you and I hope that they will also be able to provide a platform here to roll out your policy. Secondly, it may be useful to look at foreign examples. I refer, for example, to the approach in England. They impose very severe penalties in the event of violence. There is a danger that the phenomenon will move and that violence will no longer occur in stadiums but will move to other public spaces. Thirdly, as far as penalties are concerned, the nature of the offence must also be taken into account. I believe that physical violence deserves the highest form of punishment, rather than, for example, the use of pyrotechnic material. I know that seems spectacular and it can also be dangerous in some circumstances, but I do not think it can be placed at the same level as violence, especially if it is violence against stewards, innocent people in the vicinity or people in uniform. Then we must be very strict about the punishment.
