ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the topical debate on Ukraine, for which there are twenty questions. Other members can also join. Several questions tabled by the same Member can, of course, be put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u2	I put together my two questions concerning the Ukraine crisis. The current events in Ukraine are terrible, no one doubts that. Ukraine is one of the countries at the eastern external borders of the European Union, for which the EU has a specific neighbourhood policy. There are also the stabilisation and association agreements for the western Balkan countries. When the war broke out, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, proposed to make Ukraine a candidate EU member. The European Parliament has endorsed this proposal, as has many Eastern European Member States. Another group of Member States recognizes the seriousness of the events and states that it is necessary to examine the status of the country, but considers membership through an accelerated procedure to be too far-reaching. My first question is, therefore, what is the government's position on this matter? Is it in favour of possible Ukrainian membership of the European Union in the distant future? Or is a new type of partnership with the European Union envisaged, for example, with preferential links and trade-related matters? I come to my second question. The Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, had announced that he would resign in October to take up a new position within the Norwegian national bank. There is now speculation as to who will be his successor within NATO. One of the names mentioned, Madam Secretary, is your name.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u3	You can't wait to see me leave? [[smile]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u4	[[smile]] Absolutely not. I was going to say that I think you would do very well. I just want to hear your opinion. It was recently stated that the war in Ukraine may require him to stay on for a year longer. So my question is whether the rumors are true that he will stay on for a year longer. Should the mail be released, is that a post you'd be interested in? Have you had any pulses? What are the deadlines and what is the procedure for the nomination of the new Secretary-General of NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u5	Mrs Ponthier has six questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u6	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, we have already had an extensive exchange of views on the whole situation and on the war in Ukraine in the meantime. The evolutions in the field follow each other very quickly. We have just heard that the military actions around Kiev would be reduced. At least, that's what Russian communication says. To what extent we can believe them is, of course, another matter. The negotiations in the field would thus be more likely to take place. Yesterday, Ukrainian President Zelenski said he wanted to make Ukraine's neutral status negotiable. At least, he proposed this as a possible opening in the framework of the negotiations. Can you give the Belgian Government's view on this? I have submitted some questions on the recent initiatives of the Belgian Government, the EU and NATO, in particular on sanctions. A fifth sanction package is currently under discussion. Can you give me more information on that? I would also like to know more about the negotiations, about the diplomatic dialogue. Are you aware of this at the moment? The Prime Minister has stated in the Chamber that he cannot yet put his finger on any counter-measures by the Russian aggressor. Do you have a view of it at the moment and can you possibly indicate it in more concrete terms? I also have a question about the investigation of war crimes in Ukraine by the International Criminal Court. On the initiative of the United Kingdom, Belgium, together with some other countries, will request the Prosecutor of the Criminal Court in The Hague to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity, including in Ukraine. That investigation would involve both past war crimes and current crimes during the war in Ukraine. Madam Minister, can you explain more about the nature and methodology of the research, and also about the subject matter and its breadth? In other words, will it be an exhaustive investigation with an investigation into all war crimes? How can reliability be guaranteed at this stage, given the still prevailing so-called fog of war? Which other countries are currently joining this call for research? My next question is about Ukraine's potential accession to the EU, which Mr Van Bossuyt has already mentioned. At the beginning, communication on this issue was not ideal at all, when the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, declared that she saw salvation in Ukrainian EU membership. It expressed this at a time when relations were very sensitive and diplomatic consultations had to be handled with great care. Have you had any further contacts with the EU partners, with the Ukrainian Ambassador and with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister? What is your government's view of Ukraine's potential EU membership? We hear contradictory statements about this: some do not want to know about it, so as not to put the conflict at the forefront, while Prime Minister De Croo stated in plenary two weeks ago that the EU does have something to offer, which will bring some countries closer to us, because freedom, security and democracy in the EU are attractive to them. The Prime Minister then encouraged an accelerated accession of Ukraine and, in the strongest terms, possibly that of other countries. What's your vision on that? I would also like to ask what the Belgian position is on energy independence. This is a subject that has been raised everywhere: at the European Council, at the Versailles meeting and at all other bilateral talks. What steps have you taken or will you take, together with your government partners? I would also like to hear your views on the imminent food crisis. For some other questions, concerning the Russian media law and the security of our journalists, I refer to my written question, even though it is somewhat out of date. Recently, the Kremlin announced a draconian media bill. All journalistic reports that differ from the official Russian narrative about the war in Ukraine are now being sanctioned with 15 years in prison. Foreign journalists are also being targeted and Facebook and Twitter have already been restricted in order to protect Russian citizens from international media. As a result, the two main independent Russian media, 'Echo Moskovy' and TV station 'Dosjt', stopped their activities. Also the British 'BBC Russia' and the German 'Deutsche Welle' had to suspend their reporting. The BBC recalled all its journalists from Russia. Both for dissident voices in the interior and for foreign journalists, the screws are therefore available. How do you estimate the risk to our Belgian journalists in Russia? Is there an evacuation going on? How do your department and our journalists in Russia keep in touch? How do you estimate the risk to our journalists in Russia? Did an evacuation take place there and how did it go? How do your department and our journalists in Russia keep in touch at the moment? My final question concerns the announced resignation and the succession of the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Stoltenberg. He announced his imminent resignation. I have been told that there is no established selection procedure for that function. Is that correct, Madam Secretary? How exactly does the selection procedure work for the successor? Within what period is a successor appointed? Is it true that you are a candidate to lead NATO? You probably won't be able to say anything about that here. Does Belgium have any other candidate in mind? Is this being discussed within the government? If so, on what criteria is a Belgian candidate put forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u7	Madam Minister, I would like to focus my questions on three elements. Firstly, could you explain the discussion on a possible fifth sanction package? As you know, we are calling for the greatest possible European independence of Russia with regard to imports of oil, gas and uranium. There is, of course, a risk that other countries will jump into that hole and strengthen their ties with Russia. Look at the recent example of India. Secondly, where are we on the diplomatic negotiations between Ukraine and Russia? We see that a number of countries, such as Turkey, are trying to play an intermediating role in this. What role could the European Union play in this, which is even stronger than it is today? Thirdly, how do you see the future relations between Ukraine and the European Union with regard to possible membership or partnership? Madam President, my colleague Samuel Cogolati has been apologized for other commitments. Let me briefly explain his two questions, if that's allowed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u8	This is a topical debate. You ask the questions you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u9	There is a question about nuclear cooperation with Russia. From the European Parliament came the question of stopping cooperation, especially with Rosatom and its affiliates. What is the current state of cooperation between Belgium and Rosatom? What position does Belgium defend in this respect, knowing that 26% of uranium is imported into the European Union? Is Rosatom endorsed by the current sanctions imposed by the European Union? Is an embargo on Russian uranium conceivable? What are the prospects? Has that been discussed? What is the position of Belgium? Finally, there is another question about the national security authorities in our country and the security clearances requested by Russian companies, institutions and individuals. What is the policy on this at the moment? Are the security clearances and certificates withdrawn or not? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u10	Mr Cogolati is not here. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u11	My colleague Nabil Boukili will ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, Russia's criminal invasion of Ukraine, combined with the draconian sanctions imposed on Russia as a result, threatens to plunge the world into chaos and an unprecedented crisis. Russia and Ukraine together account for some 25 per cent of world cereal exports. Fifty countries depend on it for 30 per cent or more of their food; some African countries even depend on it for up to 100 per cent. Russia and Belarus are also the largest fertilizer producers. On 14 March, FAO cautioned against a catastrophic period approach to global food security. As a result of the pandemic and the climate crisis, global food insecurity has increased dramatically in recent years. Today, energy and food prices are reaching record levels. Some 10 per cent of humanity already suffers from food insecurity, which can go as far as chronic malnutrition. At the same time, humanitarian organizations report a sharp decline in contributions to their funds. In the least developed countries, already hard hit by the pandemic, the climate crisis and debt, widespread famine is imminent. Countries such as Lebanon and Egypt report that they have almost exhausted their food supplies and are experiencing difficulties in rebuilding them. Hunger riots and an unprecedented number of refugees from the affected countries are not to be excluded. Minister, I would like to hear your answers to the various questions that I am going to ask you here. What is the impact of sanctions against Russia on food and energy prices, and on global food security? What is the impact of the exclusion of Russian banks from Swift on agricultural exports and food reserves around the world? President Biden called for a system to "punish countries that do not comply with Western sanctions" while many countries are heavily dependent on Russian energy, cereals and fertilizer. Is the Belgian Government in favour of such a system? In conclusion, do Belgium and Europe take into account the possibility of destabilization that widespread sanctions could cause in a large number of countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u13	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, most colleagues have already addressed the issues of my first question. I'm gonna be short for the first one. With regard to the humanitarian aid and military aid that our country has provided to Ukraine so far, I would have liked to have had a brief assessment of the situation. Have any new decisions been made in this regard since your last communications? Another aspect I am interested in is how our State ensures that these deliveries - both arms deliveries and humanitarian deliveries - are received by the right people in Ukraine.I think this is a question that we may not have asked ourselves enough so far. Then I have a reflection on the types of weapons we deliver. Together with the colleagues in the Les Engagés Group, we proposed an amendment to the resolution voted last week, stating that we should invest in the transfer of anti-aircraft portable weapons. I still do not see how offensive weapons can be distinguished from defensive weapons in this conflict. As soon as we admit the idea that we can deliver weapons without being a co-belligerent, I don't see how the nature of the weapons delivered changes the situation. I therefore still do not see why Belgium does not send the anti-aircraft devices at its disposal. The other question that I have tabled concerns the problem of famine, which is becoming more acute, since the Ukrainian crisis has unexpected impacts far beyond European borders. Russia is the world's largest exporter of wheat, and Ukraine is the fifth. Together, these two countries account for a quarter of world trade. Economic sanctions adopted by the West have also led to a major rise in wheat prices, which has become far too expensive in some countries such as Sudan and Indonesia. Of course, as far as the situation in Belgium is concerned, I have noted, like everyone else, the creation of a Ukraine task force by your colleague, Mr Dermagne. But for another part of the world, we can fear a major famine if the conflict does not end as soon as possible. Madam Minister, last Thursday the French President proposed a global emergency plan for food security, with a view to responding to the risk of famine in many countries, particularly in North Africa. Are you in favour of Mr. Macron's proposed plan? Have any contacts been made with the African Union in this regard? Will Belgium join the FARM (Food and Agriculture Resilience Mission) initiative announced by Mr Macron? The United States has said it will release a billion dollars, in particular to deal with the "net increase in food insecurity". Have these funds been released to Africa and the countries most affected by the war at the food level? What funds have the European Union and Belgium made available in this respect? The European Union is seeking to inflate its own production, in particular to address the serious food crises feared in Africa and Asia. What concrete steps are being taken to implement this commitment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the war in Ukraine is causing collateral damage that was difficult to anticipate. My colleague François De Smet has just returned to one of them and I would like to return to two others. First, there is the medical care of Ukrainians on the spot, but also of Ukrainian refugees arriving in Belgium, for three main reasons. First, Ukraine has one of the highest rates of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the world, i.e., drug-resistant tuberculosis. This tuberculosis is one of the most deadly diseases in the world. It is particularly contagious and is increasing significantly, including in Belgium because it affects the most vulnerable and vulnerable audiences. On this subject, the Minister of Health replied last Thursday in plenary session that an interministerial conference on health had been held the day before and that the federal government should diance the screening of Ukrainians arriving in Belgium. Second, the rate of vaccination against covid-19 is extremely low in Ukraine. Indeed, only one in three Ukrainians would be vaccinated against covid. Third, the bombings in Ukraine affect hospitals and maternity hospitals, forcing caregivers to work in the basements in extremely complicated circumstances. Minister, in general, how is the health of Ukrainians taken into account in your government's current measures both in Ukraine and when they arrive on our soil in Belgium? What measures have been taken by ideally disaggregating them by disease (tuberculosis, covid or AIDS) to ensure their detection and treatment? Does our State take measures to help hospitals specifically, either unilaterally or via the European Union? Finally, does our country intend to participate actively in the fight against tuberculosis at European level? If so, how? The other collateral damage that I want to return to today is babies from pregnancy for others. Ukraine is known to be a flagship destination for parents of intention. Today, these babies have been trapped in bomb shelters in Ukraine since February 26th. These babies have no marital status, no nationality, no official parents, and within a few weeks they could be a hundred. While surrogate mothers have signed a document of abandonment, not all parents of intent have yet been able to come to recover their child, since going to Ukraine is now impossible due to the war. As for the few transfers of children, which are nevertheless carried out at the border, they are very difficult, with doctors who must be armed to protect themselves and to protect babies. The company BioTexCom today claims that 50 children were born during the war and that 450 surrogate mothers still have to give birth in the coming weeks. Do you confirm this figure and to what extent would it concern Belgian families? Are special measures taken to ensure the safe repatriation of babies born from pregnancy to others whose parents of intention reside in Belgium? Finally, what health and legal follow-up will be given to these babies once they arrive on Belgian soil?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, I must say that I am uneasy about the subject of my question after hearing the questions of my colleagues, including that of my colleague Rohonyi, whom I thank for addressing these various elements. My question actually concerns the financing of the Council of Europe. Together with my colleague Lacroix here, we were in Strasbourg a few days ago when the Assembly of Parliamentarians of the Council of Europe (PACE) decided to expel the Russian Federation from the Council of Europe. This expulsion is not good news for human rights since 145 million Russian citizens will no longer be able to apply to the European Court of Human Rights; but it is unfortunately a necessary expulsion and a vote of 210 voters against 213 confirmed it after a special session. That said, the expulsion of Russia raises questions about the financing of the Council of Europe, an important institution. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Will Belgium participate in the efforts required to ensure the sustainability of the Council of Europe? What will be the Belgian position defended in the Committee of Ministers on the expulsion of the Russian Federation from the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u16	Madam President, I was referred to the Prime Minister, although I had a particular interest in questioning the Deputy Prime Minister. I will therefore abide by the Rules, since I was told that I cannot ask you any questions today, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, but I must address my questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u17	First of all, I would like to thank you for your attention to this conflict – this war – which is understandable given the seriousness of the situation. I welcome your many questions, as well as the invitation to President Zelensky to speak before Parliament. Since the last debates in committee and plenary, we have seen that the situation on the ground remains dramatic. The strikes hit civilians relentlessly, and Belgium strongly condemns these acts of war, particularly the deliberate attacks on civilian populations resulting in too many casualties. This invasion has caused an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe in Europe since the Second World War. As I speak to you, more than ten million Ukrainians - one quarter of the population - flee their homes and almost four million citizens have already sought refuge abroad, while six and a half million other citizens are displaced within their own country. In general, the military forces involved have largely stopped. There is a delay in the resumption of Russian offensives in Ukraine, probably due to a shortage of logistics personnel. Contacts between Russia and Ukraine for a negotiated exit from the crisis started on 28 February and are still under way. In a first phase, four sessions of peace talks were held between Ukrainian and Russian delegations in Belarus. Today, the second phase of the negotiations will start in Istanbul. At the heart of the negotiations is the conditions that Russia has set for a peace treaty. A number of them are totally unacceptable to Ukraine: the status of neutrality, which would prevent any future accession of Ukraine to a military alliance (although that position has changed in the meantime), the demilitarisation of the country, the granting of a special status to the self-explained People's Republics of Luhansk and Donetsk and the formal transfer by Ukraine of the sovereignty of Crimea to the Russian Federation. Finally, Russia also mentioned the restoration of the official status of the Russian language alongside the Ukrainian language and the denazification of the country, which is often interpreted as a regime change. Ukraine is difficult to accept such difficult political conditions of peace, but President Zelenski declared his willingness to compromise on the Donbas and Crimea, provided that the outcome of the negotiations is approved by the people in a referendum and guaranteed by the UN Security Council. He also publicly indicated his willingness to abandon the Ukrainian ambition to join NATO and to accept a neutral statute. President Zelenski also insists on a direct negotiation between him and Putin, even if only to cut the final buttons. Despite the Ukrainian opening, Russia does not seem ready for a bilateral meeting at presidential level. I have heard that an important negotiation has taken place today. It shows that Russia is once again announcing that it will reduce its military activities in the Kiev area and northern Ukraine. Russia also indicates that it could consider a meeting between President Putin and President Zelensky when an agreement is ready. However, the maturity of their discussions has not yet met with a common expression. But what I'm telling you today can change in a few hours and then tomorrow. It will be up to us to continue to follow all this closely. A rare positive point in this situation is that diplomacy is working. Both continue to discuss and we hope that everyone is at the same level of commitment in the desire to reach a positive solution for the Ukrainians. The talks have led to a series of announcements on humanitarian corridors, but they are struggling to materialize on the ground. These humanitarian corridors should allow supplies and supplies to Ukrainians, as well as safe passage for civilian populations wishing to leave Ukraine. Some passages have been insured this weekend, others should be put in place today. These initiatives must become more widespread as soon as possible. President Macron has planned a call with President Putin on this issue this afternoon. Our country continues to be active in all appropriate international fora in order to mobilize against Russia's unacceptable aggression and also to ensure that Moscow respects the law of war and international humanitarian law. It is essential to make Russia understand that we are not in the business as usual, by no longer supporting its initiatives or its applications, which is in addition to the decisions taken in terms of sanctions. We see a huge boost of solidarity and generosity coming from the whole European continent, including Belgium, which is a good thing. Faced with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Belgium quickly switched. At national level, the government has taken the necessary steps to firmly support Ukraine with words and even more with deeds. On 18 March, the Council of Ministers approved the purchase of additional weapons and ammunition, as well as tactical equipment such as night vision goggles. As far as the details of the purchases are concerned, I refer to my colleague, the Minister of Defence. As regards the health aspect of the crisis, Belgium sent masks and medicines to Ukraine, Poland and Slovakia via the B-FAST mechanism. Other deliveries of medical equipment and medicines were directly provided by the Public Health FPS. As for the various types of diseases considered, I refer you to the Minister of Public Health, who deals with them in arms-to-body. I think you've already addressed him, knowing you a little bit. In addition to the material support to Ukraine, Belgium honours its NATO commitments and contributes to the deployment of the rapid intervention force as part of the reinforced conventional deterrent dispositive on the eastern flank of the alliance, by sending a unit of 300 soldiers from the 1/3 Battalion Lanciers to Romania in support of the Aigle mission under French command. In addition, a detachment of 4 Belgian F-16s participates in the surveillance of Baltic airspace as part of the Baltic Air Policing mission. Finally, our diplomacy has also been fully mobilised to isolate Russia as far as possible in multilateral fora together with the EU and/or NATO partners. At the same time, we are ensuring that Russia is not irreversibly disconnected from the multilateral system, unless Moscow itself does so, as recently with the Russian decision to leave the Council of Europe. Our aim is to make it clear to Moscow that it also pays a heavy price diplomatically for its unacceptable and senseless aggression against Kiev. Russia must be fully aware of the international indignation it has caused. In this context, in consultation with other EU partners, I have contacted a number of my colleagues in several third countries to convince them to support the second resolution on Ukraine, which has been submitted to the United Nations General Assembly by Western countries and like-minded partners in recent days. Both resolutions were adopted by an overwhelming majority on 2 and 24 March, with 141 and 140 votes for 193 respectively. The Russian vote against could only count on the support of four other countries. Rarely in the history of the UN, Russia has been so isolated. As a reminder, the first resolution condemns Moscow for its aggression against Kiev and calls for its troops to withdraw immediately from Ukraine. The second resolution states Russia's responsibility for the disastrous humanitarian situation in the eastern parts of Ukraine and calls for humanitarian justice to be respected, for the civilian population to be spared, for humanitarian access to the besieged cities and for humanitarian evacuation corridors to be provided. In our overseas efforts towards the international community, we must remain realistic. The rest of the world is not about Russia's complete isolation. If Belgium does not believe that it is necessary to systematically push our partners to choose a camp – because it would be counterproductive and feed the Russian narrative with a "Western double standard", so that we risk speeding up the questioning of the multilateral system to which we attach great importance – we must not forget, however, that, given the seriousness of the facts we are confronted with, we must continue to convince and mobilise our partners. Indeed, we must trust them in their refusal to remain indifferent to this war, the consequences of which are and will be felt by all. Personally, I believe that refraining from denouncing this war clearly and without any nuance is tantamount to taking sides for the aggressor. As far as NATO is concerned, the Alliance is not a party to the conflict, but Russia's aggression against Ukraine changes our security environment and forces us to adapt our defence posture with short- and medium-term consequences, but also to continue our defence efforts in a long-term perspective. More effort will be needed to strengthen our Defence, and the Allies will have the opportunity to return. At the Madrid Summit at the end of June, protecting the Allied territory on the basis of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty will be a commitment that binds us all. The 24 March Summit demonstrated our unwavering unity, as demonstrated by the announcement of the deployment of four additional battle groups in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia. The Allies will also support Ukraine bilaterally, so that it can ensure its right to self-defence. With regard to the delivery of military equipment to Ukraine, it is also our flying teams located near the borders that make every effort to ensure that they arrive in good port. It is undoubtedly the response of the European Union which has so far been the most decisive, namely by bringing together four packages of substantial and, above all, unseen sanctions. In close cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom, the European Union has made it clear that it can speak with one voice and that it can strongly resound on the international stage. The sanctions issued by the Union can be divided into two categories. First of all, there are sectoral sanctions, both restrictions on the Russian financial sector, on the access of Russian aircraft to our airspace, on the trade in dual-use goods. In the field of energy, there is a ban on exports to Russia in this sector, including technology and services, a ban on new investments in the Russian energy sector and a ban on exports of all kinds of industrial products and luxury goods to Russia, including diamonds. In addition, restrictions have been imposed on Russian media whose broadcasting licences are progressively withdrawn. In addition, there are the individual sanctions imposed against the representatives of the ruling class, high officials of the state and administrations, including President Putin and Foreign Minister Lavrov, senior military and security officers, MPs and, of course, the oligarchs. These sanctions are intended to affect and isolate Russia, both financially and economically, as well as at the level of individuals. We hope that these restrictive measures will encourage Moscow to put an end to its military operation in Ukraine in the face of an increasing lack of resources. A total of 877 persons and 62 entities are subject to a freezing of assets and an entry ban in the EU because their action has harmed Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. For the time being, there is no new sanction package on the table. If a new package is to be dropped, care must be taken to ensure that any sanctions do not miss their purpose and hit the EU harder than Russia. The Belgian position on a possible new sanction package will, as has been the case so far, be determined in consultation with the federated entities. It is important to note that sanctions have also been imposed against Belarus, which, in particular, restricts the export of key Belarusian high value added exports, with all the consequences for the country's economic stability. I come to Mr De Vriendt's question about diamonds and whether or not the export of Russian diamonds is included in the list of sectoral sanctions. The diamond sector was already endorsed by the sanction package adopted on 15 March, which is aimed at exporting luxury goods. Therefore, exports of diamonds from the EU to Russia are currently prohibited. The import of diamonds from Russia has not been discussed in the preparation of the first four sanction packages. Further sectoral sanctions in the form of import bans on any additional products are currently not on the European agenda or not yet on it. The issue of imports of diamonds from Russia gives me the opportunity to address the general philosophy traditionally defended by our country with regard to the imposition of sectoral sanctions. Sanctions are not an end in themselves, they must be precisely cylindrical and proportionate, they must primarily damage the capacity of the Russian state to finance the war, they must hit the Russian sector harder than the European economic sector and they must also be sustainable. New sanctions, both in the diamond sector and in all other sectors, will therefore be examined in this way without taboos. Decisions on sanctions are discussed at Belgian level in the DGE "The Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination" in which the various entities meet. For the time being, the impact of sanctions is beginning to be felt on Russia, particularly its economy. What is certain is that the rouble has lost much of its value, which indicates a general loss of confidence in the Russian economy. The real challenge lies at the macro level and revolves around the Central Bank and its ability to pay. With half of the assets of the Russian Central Bank frozen by Western countries, the disastrous prospect of Moscow's inability to honour its international obligations seems to be approaching. In such a scenario, it would be difficult for Russia to continue the war. At the micro-economic level, the measures taken by the Central Bank and other authorities, notably by raising interest rates to 20% and by strictly restricting the access of individuals and businesses to foreign currencies, have made it possible to amortize, to some extent, the initial shocks. Inflation remains stable thanks to price controls and the shortage of materials is not yet felt by the population. In addition, certain materials and components for the production or distribution of products may eventually be missing. Many Western multinationals have reported that they are ceasing their activities in Russia to protest against the invasion of Ukraine. This ranges from the closure of flagship stores of luxury brands and western fast food chains to the suspension of joint ventures in the oil and gas industry and the cessation of production in the automotive industry. These actions remain rather symbolic, which does not detract from the power that symbols can have. That's the opposite! For my part, I think it's very positive. The war in Ukraine concerns us all, not just Ukrainians and Russians, but also Europeans and the whole world – as we have seen on international fora – both states and companies. Companies decide at international level to assert their total disagreement with what is happening and I think that is a good idea. The Russian authorities have initially indicated that Western companies withdrawing from the Russian market would be nationalised or expropriated, but the modalities for implementing and implementing this announcement have not yet been communicated. Sectoral sanctions have and will have a serious impact on both the economy and the daily lives of ordinary citizens. These sanctions are invariably presented in local media as measures taken by the hostile and fiercely anti-Russian West to punish Russia because it defends its own interests. I make a little incise in the answers to the questions to tell you what follows. Like any woman who respects herself, I do thirty things at a time, that is, I read my information at the same time. I would like to inform you, in the context of this topical debate, that the government has taken the decision to expel 21 persons accredited as Russian diplomats to the Russian Embassy in Brussels or the Consulate General in Antwerp. These people have been identified because of their involvement in espionage and influence operations that threaten the security of our country. The Russian Ambassador is, as I speak, informed of this decision by the FPS Foreign Affairs. The persons concerned will therefore have to leave the territory within 15 days. This decision was of course taken first in Kern, and then in consultation with the Netherlands, which took a similar decision concerning persons accredited to the Russian Embassy in The Hague. This decision is neither a sanction nor a punitive measure. It is only linked to our national security. The diplomatic channels with Russia remain open, the Russian embassy can continue to function, and of course we continue to advocate dialogue. Here I am, while things are going on in Parliament with you, the parliamentarians, it seemed to me important that you receive this information first from me rather than find it later in the press. You will have understood that we were waiting for the information to be disclosed. I'm going on with the price of wheat. We are aware that sanctions will have a significant impact on commodity markets. For many partner countries, the inflationary surge due to war calls for more international cooperation. It is true that the price of wheat has increased by 26% since the invasion of Ukraine. The above concerns about the impact of the conflict are combined with the pandemic-related market destruction, which had already severely affected prices. The European Union has no supply problems because it is a net exporter of wheat in a structural way, but price increases affect the consumer. Furthermore, we are concerned about the impact on food security of some developing and middle-income countries, and we must remain attentive to it. On 23 March, the European Commission released a EUR 500 million aid package for the European agricultural sector, affected by the effects of the war in Ukraine, including EUR 6.3 million for Belgium. National governments will be able to supplement this support with national grants of up to 200 % of the European amount. Their proposals for measures are expected by the Commission by 30 June. This amount is accompanied by a series of measures such as a temporary derogation to allow the production of any crops for food purposes on fallow land or the use of pesticides, which should help to relieve markets. These concerns are also taken into account at the Belgian level. The Minister for Agriculture, Mr Clarinval, has set up a task force in collaboration with the Minister for the Economy, Mr Dermagne. This working group will discuss agri-food and raw material issues. It will bring together federal authorities and agri-food federations as well as the Regions to analyse the consequences of the conflict in Ukraine. I invite you to ask the ministers in charge for further details. With regard to the food security plan announced last Friday by the French President, we look forward to seeing it in detail in order to define a position. It goes without saying that any initiative aimed at mitigating a global food crisis will be supported by Belgium. Russia responded to the economic sanctions by announcing various counter-sanctions. So far, they have been primarily defensive. First, Russia has added 46 new states to the list of inamic countries, which so far have only two (the United States and the Czech Republic). All the member countries of the European Union are now considered to be inamic countries. Russia reserves the right to take retaliatory measures against inamic countries when it deems it necessary. The limited number of measures already taken includes the authorization for Russian companies and public institutions to pay their foreign debts for any amount exceeding $95,000 in roubles at the daily exchange rate. In addition, the Russian government closely monitors the economic interactions of commercial entities of non-friendly countries and Russian companies: any significant investment and commercial transactions are subject to the approval of the designated national regulatory authority. It has also limited the purchase and withdrawal of foreign currencies by individuals to a maximum of $10,000. Finally, Russia has restricted exports of certain types of wood to inamic countries. Russia is considering new measures, such as the obligation of non-friendly States to pay for deliveries of gas in rubles instead of international currency or the expulsion of diplomats in retaliation for the expulsion of Russian diplomats by certain Western countries (the United States, Estonia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Belgium) or the introduction of visa restrictions. With regard to the more specific questions concerning the number of Belgian companies present in Russia and the activities they carry out there, I invite you to address the regions which have competence in this field. I would now like to turn to the issue which has emerged prominently over the last two weeks, namely accession to the European Union. First of all, I want to make it clear that Ukraine is geographically a European country, with a future in a European context. Having said that, any accession to the EU must be in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the European Treaties. I am thinking in particular of Article 49 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which lists the details and procedures for an application for membership of the EU by a third country. This prescribed procedure is long and demanding, but at the same time it guarantees successful membership. An accession process can only be successful if the country which wishes to join the European Union meets the basic political criteria, the so-called Copenhagen criteria: respect for the rule of law, political pluralism, respect for human rights, the rights of minorities, a well-functioning civil society, good neighbourly relations and good relations with neighbouring countries, etc., and economically integrated into the EU so that one can engage without problems and participate in the internal market. On the other hand, the integration of an insufficiently prepared Member State could lead to excessive imbalances within the EU and could disrupt the EU and completely destabilise the economy of the new Member State. However dramatic the situation in Ukraine may be, our country believes that the EU should not set a precedent with the Ukrainian dossier. To be very clear: there are no shortcuts on the road to EU membership. This position was adopted by the Union at the Versailles European Summit on 10 and 11 March 2022 after lengthy discussions. Belgium has been in favour of this position from the outset. In any event, the Ukrainian application for accession transmitted by Kiev to the European authorities on 28 February 2022 was forwarded by the Council to the European Commission for its opinion. It is now awaiting the opinion that the Commission will send to the Council following a thorough review of Ukrainian political and socio-economic realities. Waiting for the Commission's opinion certainly does not exclude the possibility of developing closer cooperation between the EU and Ukraine. In 2014, the EU and Ukraine signed an association agreement which also includes a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. The agreement entered into force on 1 September 2017. It obliges Ukraine to undertake economic, judicial and financial reforms to align its policies and legislation with that of the European Union. Much of these reforms are still in their infancy. In addition, the EU can amend and deepen the Association Agreement in order to encourage Ukraine to implement the reform process more rapidly. Ukraine is also part of the EU's Eastern Partnership, which can be deepened in some of its dimensions in order to accelerate Ukraine's convergence towards the Union. In this way, Ukraine may already be able to begin bringing closer to the EU, through sectoral and selective integration in certain sectors or areas, all of this in view of the possible start of accession negotiations in the foreseeable future. Our country is defending this floor skewer. Beyond this point of view on Ukraine's accession to the European Union, it is clear that it is above all the reconstruction of Ukraine that we will have to tackle first, since the Ukrainian government believes that the direct impact of the destruction, since the beginning of the Russian invasion, is already 565 billion dollars. With regard to the question of pregnancy for others (GPA), my services are not aware of any Belgian citizens currently awaiting the birth of a surrogate mother in Ukraine or who are currently in Ukraine with a child born of a GPA. Commercial GPA is not legally regulated under Belgian law. This situation explains why the parentage as described in the birth certificate is not automatically followed up in Belgium. It will therefore be up to Parliament to look into and legislate on this issue. As you can see, the follow-up in Belgium of cases of children born to a GPA is not my responsibility. I now turn to the investigation of the International Criminal Court in connection with allegations of war crimes committed by Russian troops in Ukraine. Allow me to begin with a quick reminder of the facts that led to the formal opening of the investigation on 2 March 2022. It was the then prosecutor of the ICC, Fatou Bensouda, who launched a preliminary investigation into possible Russian war crimes in Ukraine in 2014 at the request of this country. In 2015, it extended the scope of its investigation to all forms of war crimes allegedly committed as of 20 February 2014, including at the request of Ukraine. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. The current ICC attorney, Karim Khan, asked on 3 March for permission to open a formal investigation on the basis of the findings of his predecessor, but again with a wider scope, which would now include events following the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine. At the same time, he applied for additional human resources to conduct the research. 41 countries, including our country and all other EU Member States, have requested an investigation from Attorney Khan. A team of researchers has travelled to Ukraine to collect evidence of alleged war crimes. We are still in the fog of war phase, as you rightly said, Mrs Ponthier, but the researchers already have access to a large number of clues and evidence to prepare their case. Indeed, new technologies make it easier to collect evidence, such as images or recording events, along with testimony from victims and witnesses. The ICC shall also receive the comprehensive evidence collected by States Parties. Evidence from Ukrainian citizens' mobile phones is also available. Finally, I give you the full list of countries that have supported the initiative of Attorney Khan: the 27 countries of the EU, Albania, Australia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Georgia, Iceland, Japan, Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. As regards the financing of the Council of Europe, and in response to Mr Moutquin's question, as early as 25 February, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe suspended the Russian Federation. The procedure laid down in Article 8 of the Statute of the Council of Europe provides for three stages: the suspension, the request of the country concerned to withdraw, and a decision to terminate membership of the Council of Europe on a fixed date. The Parliamentary Assembly advocated the exclusion of Russia on 15 March, when, almost simultaneously, Russia announced that it would leave the organisation. The Committee of Ministers took note of these developments by excluding Russia on 16 March with immediate effect. On 23 March, the Committee of Ministers instructed the Secretary-General to notify Russia of the budgetary and legal consequences of the cessation of membership. As far as the organisation's budget is concerned, Russia is required to meet the full financial obligations arising from its membership of the Council of Europe and remains in arrears. This amounts to almost 9 million euros of interest on arrears, dating from the previous crisis, of which 5.8 million euros for its contributions from 2022 until 16 March. The cessation of the Russian Federation's participation in the Council of Europe will indeed have a budgetary impact on the other members. Belgium will have to pay a compulsory contribution supplement of several hundred thousand euros per year; for 2022, this amount is estimated at around 740 000 euros. There was also a question about the Russian media law that was adopted on 4 March and its possible impact on our journalists on the ground. For a few years, no Belgian journalists have been active in Russia. Our media calls on local correspondents, primarily French and Dutch-speaking freelance journalists, based in Moscow, who also work for other media. Belgian journalists go to Russia from time to time and in the context of specific events. According to our information, that is not the case right now. Finally, an evacuation is not on the agenda, either from journalists or from other Western citizens. Any Belgian or Western citizen who so wishes can still leave Russia freely, both on land and by plane, although the latter option is limited as the airspace regularly closes. With regard to Europe's dependence on Russian energy resources, the conclusion of the Versailles Summit on 10 and 11 March endorsed the objective of reducing the European Union's dependence as quickly as possible on fossil fuels from Russia. This objective was further confirmed at the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022. In order to achieve this, we will need to diversify our gas supply, including through joint purchases and the development of biomethane and hydrogen, and reduce our dependence on fossil fuels by accelerating the deployment of renewable energies, as well as increasing our energy efficiency. We will also have to adopt an ambitious European gas storage policy. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) had adopted a resolution condemning the Russian occupation of nuclear sites in Ukraine and calling on Russia to allow the competent Ukrainian authorities access to those sites. Belgium supported this resolution. We also support the mediation efforts of IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi, who is trying to establish a mechanism between the two parties in conflict to better protect Ukrainian nuclear sites. He is also in Ukraine today to discuss emergency technical assistance measures. Finally, concerning Mr. Chudakov, one of the Deputy Directors of the IAEA, who is a Russian national, the decision to suspend him belongs to the IAEA and its governing administrative bodies. With regard to Belgian-Russian nuclear cooperation, SCK CEN reports that the six previous equipment and service contracts with Russia are currently frozen. The total amount involved is EUR 230,000. The same applies to cooperation agreements and contracts. All cooperation with Russia and Belarus is frozen until further notice. With regard to the National Security Authority (NSA), the NSA never issues security clearances to persons of Russian or Belarusian nationality, nor to Russian or Belarusian companies, in the absence of an agreement between Belgium, on the one hand, and Russia and Belarus, on the other, for the mutual protection of classified information. Since the beginning of the Russian invasion in Ukraine on 24 February, four requests have been received for certificates and security notices for Russian citizens. These requests were made at a European summit which resulted in the granting of a security certificate for the performance of their duties as a professional journalist or media technician. There is no legal basis for the ANS to refuse requests for security checks and therefore the granting or issuing of a certificate or security notice on the basis of nationality or a person. However, the competent administrative authority, the organiser of an event or the officials of premises, buildings or land have the right to decide whether or not to grant access to persons of Russian nationality. For the time being, there is no additional application for Russian nationals to the NSA. Finally, you also asked me about the next Secretary-General of NATO. The selection procedure shall be informal, in particular through consultations between the allies led by the oldest ambassador to NATO. Jens Stoltenberg's successor would be appointed at the next Madrid Summit at the end of 2022. In view of the situation in Ukraine, the allies decided at the extraordinary summit on 24 March 2022 to extend Mr Stoltenberg's mandate in order to avoid a change of leadership in the middle of a crisis. That is a logical reasoning which I fully support. Finally, I am not really convinced that the question about my person belongs to this Parliament. I will answer the question once and for all and therefore repeat that my pseudo-candidate is merely a non-grounded rumor. Case closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the topical value of your answers. I shall give the floor again to the various proposers in turn. It seems, however, that there is also a debate about the Prime Minister. I know that several Members, including myself, should normally be there. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I am happy to give you the floor quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u19	Madam President, it is very strange. We received an e-mail at 2.30 p.m. for a meeting at 4 p.m. We also have questions here. That is a pity, because the Prime Minister makes time for that committee meeting and we will be informed last minute. Madam Minister, thank you very much for the comprehensive answer. I will confine my reply to the specific questions I have asked you about Ukraine's possible accession. I would like to make two other points first. It is certainly positive that talks are taking place between Russia and Ukraine. We must certainly encourage any diplomatic means of finding a way out of the conflict. It's only logical that things progress with baby steps. However, we must welcome every step forward. I thank you for sharing with us the news, if we may call it that, of twenty Russian 'diplomats', although they are not really diplomats, who apparently left the Russian Embassy and who, if I have understood your answer correctly, will have to leave our country because they would be accused of espionage. On the possibility of accession, I fully agree with your answer that Ukraine is geographically within the continent of Europe and has a future in a European context. The question is, however, what is the future? You refer to the Copenhagen criteria. These are, of course, the criteria that are being applied once a country has already been granted the status of candidate country. So that's only in another phase. Even when it comes to granting the status of candidate countries, we must be very careful, if I may say so. After all, there is the example of Turkey, which was given the status of candidate in 1963. That could be counterproductive. The fact that Europe continues to keep a candidate on a leash may be poor, but it must be honest with the countries and must not create false expectations. That can only be counterproductive. We have to deal with this very carefully. It is terrible what is happening in Ukraine, but we must of course also bear in mind the reality. When it comes to corruption, Ukraine is in the OECD ranking lower than Russia. The motto throughout this conflict must be to keep the heart high and keep the head cool. The decisions we are taking now have far-reaching and far-reaching consequences in the long term. We must take decisions with the utmost caution. With regard to the future Secretary-General of NATO, I would not have despised the fact that you were here to announce your possible candidacy, not at all. In particular, I would like to say that I am convinced that you would certainly be a good candidate. I have every confidence that you would fill that in a positive way. Our country also has a lot of experience in such matters. We will continue to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u20	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, we have been able to get the latest developments fresh from the press, for which we are grateful. You have responded very promptly to the various questions and have also outlined a general picture of the situation and the diplomatic negotiations. They're very important. I would like to stress once again that diplomatic dialogue is important, however difficult and unclear it may be. That is what we have seen today with regard to the reduction of military actions around Kiev, let us hope that it is true. As unclear as communication on this issue is, we and all the partners involved at European level and in NATO must continue to look for this diplomatic opening and strive for it. That must be clear. You confirmed that, too. We're on the same page there. The same applies to accession to the EU. I am pleased that you have confirmed in so many words that the communication on this matter by the President of the Commission was not appropriate at that time. The same may be true of our Prime Minister, although he has said something about her. We certainly should not be rushing to communicate in this area. You know that my group is not in favour of further enlargement of the current EU, especially at this time. There are also some countries in the queue. We would therefore urge that we do not throw oil on the fire in this area at a time when diplomatic relations are so shaky. You also say that energy independence is pursued to the maximum. This seems to me to be an obvious fact, not only for the sake of independence in itself, but also for the consequences for our people, which will certainly be indirectly affected by the consequences of this war, both directly and in the long term. In this respect, energy independence must be a priority. You have also said that the investigation of war crimes will be brought to the fore. I repeat that we are in favour of an exhaustive investigation. We also call for vigilance when it comes to involvement in the war and to defuse as much as possible wherever possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which contain a lot of information. Unfortunately, many of my questions remained unanswered. The situation in the countries of the South is worsening day by day as a result of this war and the resulting sanctions; this situation must be taken into account. In Egypt, the price of bread – which is a basic commodity for the population – is now virtually inaccessible. This is the case in several countries. The greatest injustice is to make all the people of the world pay for this war when they are not responsible for it. In sanctions mechanisms, consideration must be given to more targeted sanctions that affect Putin's entourage – oligarchs – and not the people. The people are not responsible for this war. This is the world's population as a whole. This type of crisis will lead to humanitarian crises and the arrival of refugees from those countries, as we have seen in the past. I recall that in Egypt, the basis of the revolution was the increase in the price of bread. We are putting back a framework that will lead to a humanitarian disaster, particularly in terms of refugees coming to Europe. I therefore believe that this issue really and seriously needs to be taken into account in terms of the consequences of these sanctions. The contribution of these sanctions must be assessed, but also their negative impact on the world's population. I hope that this request will be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your answers as always very comprehensive; thank you also for the information regarding the expulsion of diplomats. Thank you for insisting that this is not a sanction, but a safety and security measure. This is likely to lead to more questions in the coming days, but I am sure the government will respond. I'll point out two elements. First of all with regard to the delivery of weapons, I note that the government took new decisions on 18 March, but I am still on my hunger because I still do not know whether this will concern the delivery of anti-aircraft portable weapons, now, tomorrow or one day. I understand that so far it is not on the agenda. I would like to stress that this is exactly what the Ukrainians are asking us to do. With regard to the threat of famine and the food crisis, I note the initiatives taken and the interest you show in the French plan. I would like to stress that what may happen in front of us is really very serious. We are facing a tsunami, perhaps in the calm period when the water has withdrawn and the risk of famine that will fall on a large part of the world is yet to be seen. We need to be much more proactive than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers. I would like to encourage you in your efforts today. Indeed, negotiating with a State that imposes unacceptable conditions must be extremely complicated. As regards the sanctions of the European Union, which are aimed at both sectors and oligarchs, you are telling us that new sanctions can be examined. In my view, it would be interesting, first and foremost, to assess the concrete effects of the current sanctions that have already been released. We all feel that they are working to some extent, but I think that this impression should be objective for future sanctions. We will ensure that they are really more and more targeted and more effective, as you said earlier. As far as health is concerned, I understand that medicines, masks and medical equipment have been delivered on the spot. This is indeed essential because people who suffer from certain diseases need treatment that must be followed scrupulously while the situation in Ukraine forces them to stop their treatment. They therefore put their health at risk. But I'm still on my hunger. You do not tell me what these medicines are, what types of diseases in particular are affected by these medicines, how many medicines have been delivered. Are these targeted to the entire population or to the most vulnerable, at greatest risk, such as children, the elderly or immunodeficiencies? Then there are also hospitals, which need other types of equipment than medicines: they need respirators, specific machines, etc. Therefore, I believe that today the needs of hospitals are such that they require coordination at European Union level. Finally, with regard to the aspect of pregnancy for others, I mean that no Belgian citizen would be affected by the situations, but that is an uncertainty. Indeed, as you have rightly said, the practice is unregulated today in Belgium. Therefore, situations have not necessarily been reported to the Belgian authorities. I hope that it will be possible to verify the real situation which would or would not affect Belgian citizens. It is true that the development of a legal framework is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but besides that, it must be distinguished from all that concerns the recognition of children who, despite everything, were born abroad from GPA. This recognition is partly the responsibility of our representation abroad, in particular following a judgment and an opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, which obliges all Council of Europe states to fully recognize the filiation of children born by GPA, even if GPA is prohibited in those states. This is what France has done, which prohibits management for others but, despite everything, has established procedures for the recognition and granting of civil status that exist at French consulates, including in Ukraine. I think it would be interesting for Belgium to look at this example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u24	Madam President, I shall be very brief; my colleagues De Vriendt and Cogolati would, in my view, have replied in a much more detailed manner. Minister, thank you for your many answers. On the seemingly derisory part of the Council of Europe, I believe that making this institution of human rights, democracy and the rule of law work is really a matter of power. It is also a message to President Putin that Europe can continue such an important fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u25	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak for a reply? Mrs. Liekens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u26	I have another question, which I did not, however, submit. I will put it on the next occasion. My other questions will be dealt with shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u27	Madam Secretary, the Syrian civil war has greatly changed the political situation in the region. One of the most striking consequences is the emergence of a de facto autonomous Kurdish region in the north and northeast of the country. On 17 March 2016, the Syrian Kurds proclaimed a federal democratic entity in the areas under their control. The region is also known as Rojava, which means "the west." However, that autonomous Kurdish region raises a great deal of resistance from, among other things, Turkey, which sees that region as a threat to its own interests. On Wednesday 20 October 2021, the Catalan Parliament recognised that region as autonomous. There is also an autonomous Kurdish region in Iraq, also known as Iraqi Kurdistan. However, this region has been de facto independent since the 1990s. In 2005, the region was recognised by Iraq as a federally recognised area. Madam Secretary, have there been any contacts between the autonomous administration of Northern and Eastern Syria and the federal government? If so, when, and what did these contacts involve? If not, do you intend to establish contacts with the autonomous administration? What possible trade relations are maintained between the autonomous administration of Northern and Eastern Syria and Belgium? How do you evaluate the decision of the Catalan Parliament to recognise the autonomous administration of Northern and Eastern Syria? Do you consider a similar recognition from Belgium possible or desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u28	Mrs Samyn, first of all I would like to remind you that our country pays a great deal of attention to the situation in Syria. There an acute humanitarian crisis is triggered by a conflict that has been going on for 11 years. Our country supports the UN efforts to find a political comparison for the crisis, which has no military solution. At the Council of Foreign Ministers in January, I reiterated our political position, namely that our country is in favour of a political solution to the conflict, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 22/54. All steps in this direction are encouraged. Then I come to your question about the recognition of the autonomous administration. As Prime Minister Alexander De Croo mentioned in July last year in the Committee on the Interior, our contacts with the de facto authorities in north-east Syria have always been limited to the administrative level, particularly in the context of the repatriation of Belgian children and their mothers, FTFs, from the region. In this context, contacts are taking place between officials of my administration and representatives of the de facto local authorities. Furthermore, we do not have a specific trade relationship aimed at north-east Syria. Of course, our country has an eye for the fate of the Kurdish Syrians. The place of the various ethnic and religious groups rich in Syria is part of the UN-led search for a comprehensive political solution to the conflict. It is a process for and by Syrians, facilitated by the UN. Unilateral prepayments, such as recognition of self-government by the Catalan Parliament, seem to be at odds with this. Our country is in favour of a solution in line with UN Security Council Resolution 22/54, in which all sections of Syrian society are involved and given their place. It is up to the Syrians, after the conflict has ended, to shape the future state structure through political transition. The international community must support and facilitate this. The UN-led talks between the regime and the opposition in Geneva are just about drafting a new constitution. Our country has always argued for a representative representation of Syrian society in these negotiations. We deplore the current deadlock in the talks on the new constitution. On 24 January, I promised our support to the UN Special Envoy for Syria, Mr Geir Pedersen, who was a guest of the EU Council of Foreign Ministers, in his efforts to get the political process back on track. I welcome the resumption of the dialogue in the constitutional committee on 21 March and hope that concrete progress will eventually be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u29	Madam Minister, I note that the relationship has so far been limited to the administrative level. Belgium could take a leading role in recognising first the autonomous administration of northern and eastern Syria. As far as our party is concerned, there are sufficient grounds to recognise the autonomous administration in Western Kurdistan. Those people are entitled to their own sovereign state. Amidst all these autocracys and even dictatorships, Rojava is a beacon of democracy with a unique cultural, ethnic and religious diversity. Unlike many countries in the Middle East, Rojava places diversity and pluralism, participation and participation, gender equality and women's rights, a social economy and environmental sustainability at the heart of society. Let us not forget that a democratic society was built in Rojava, despite particularly difficult and even inhuman conditions. Autonomy has been under pressure for years: the Syrian civil war, a long-standing terrible struggle against Islamic State, the Turkish invasion and occupation of Northern Syria, ongoing attacks by jihadist militias, military confrontations and sabotage actions. In addition, there is still a not insignificant reason to recognise the region. In the event of recognition, for example, terrorists of Belgian nationality can be tried. As I said, it would be a good signal if Belgium were to take the lead in ensuring the continued existence of the autonomous administration of Northern and Eastern Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u30	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and of the Federal Cultural Institutions, - referring to the fact that there are sufficient grounds for recognizing the ISES in Western Kurdistan (Rojava). Amidst all these autocracys, even dictatorships, Rojava is a beacon of democracy with a unique cultural, ethnic and religious diversity. Where diversity and pluralism (as a counterweight to sectarianism), participation and participation, gender equality and women's rights, a social economy and environmental sustainability are central; - having regard to the fact that the Catalan Parliament - for the time being alone - recognised the region as autonomous on Wednesday 20 October 2021; - having regard to the fact that an autonomous Kurdish region also exists in Iraq, also known as lraken Kurdistan. However, it has been de facto independent since the 1990s. In 2005, the region was recognised by Iraq as a federally recognised area; asks the government - to maintain bilateral contacts with the Autonomous Administration of Northern and Eastern Syria; - to recognise, like the Catalan Parliament, the Autonomous Administration of Northern and Eastern Syria." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, - referring to the fact that there are sufficient reasons to recognise the AANES in Western Kurdistan (Rojava). In the midst of all these autocracies and even dictatorships, Rojava is a beacon of democracy with a unique cultural, ethnic and religious diversity, where diversity and pluralism (to counterbalance sectarianism), consultation and participation, gender equality and women's rights, a social economy and a sustainable environment are central; - having regard to the fact that the Catalan Parliament, for the time being alone, recognized the autonomy of the region on Wednesday, 20 October 2021; - in view of the fact that there is also an autonomous Kurdish region in Iraq, known as Iraqi Kurdistan. However, this region has already been de facto independent since the 1990s. In 2005, it was declared an autonomous political entity by Iraq; asks the government - maintain bilateral contacts with the Autonomous Administration of Northern and Eastern Syria; - to recognize, like the Catalan parliament, the Autonomous Administration of the North and East of Syria." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u31	Mr. Chair, this is a simple motion that is justified by my confidence in the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u32	Madam Vice Prime Minister, in Canada, a country long regarded as a model country in the area of democracy, left-wing liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took disproportionate measures some time ago to end legitimate and peaceful protests by citizens. Truck drivers came on the street to protest against the mandatory vaccination for their profession. The protest soon received the support of a much broader group that opposed the regime's particularly strict corona measures in the country. In order to break these protests, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has granted himself special powers, which were, to say the least, disproportionate and which took a run at some of the most elementary human rights. The opposition in the Canadian parliament then talked about authentic spleeny style measures. Green MEP Mike Morris said: "The use of the Emergency Act sets a worrying precedent for future protests." Those are just a few of the reactions to the overthrow of the peaceful protest. Trudeau's regime has then gone one step further. Demonstrators were dealt with very violently. Even residents who dared to provide blankets, food and water to protest were arrested and locked up. Protests were threatened by the regime with the kidnapping from parental power. It seems insane, but these events have indeed taken place in a democratic Western country like Canada. As a blow to the head, the Canadian government wanted to block the bank accounts of anyone who was suspected of any sympathy or cooperation with the protests and this without any court ruling, so that citizens could no longer make payments and could no longer pay loans or rent. The first application of this Emergency Act, which allows the Canadian government to ban public meetings, is also a thorn in the eye of many democrats in Canada. A number of Canadian human rights organisations also say so in so many words. The Canadian Civil Liberations Association was clear about this: "This threats our democracy and our civil freedoms." Zelfs Amnesty International sprak zich uit over de houding van het regime door te stellen:"It raises concerns and questions relating to the respect of human rights." Madam Minister, bearing in mind all these events, I would like to ask you what the attitude of our government was and is with regard to these fundamental human rights violations by the Trudeau regime in Canada. I would also like to ask you the specific question of whether, as Foreign Minister, who has undoubtedly followed the events, you will condemn these violations as strongly as all previous convictions against other countries that are guilty of these practices. In the meantime, have you heard the Canadian ambassador on this matter? Did you discuss the situation with him?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u33	Mrs Ponthier, in reply to your question on the, I quote, 'flagrant human rights violations in Canada', I cannot agree with the statement that democracy in Canada should be reduced and human rights violated. There are some challenges that the Canadian authorities are aware of, but the human rights situation in Canada can be considered excellent. Like Belgium, Canada is a rule-based rule of law with a separation of powers. Rights and freedoms, such as freedom of association and assembly or the right to freedom of expression, are guaranteed in national legislation which is in accordance with Canada's international obligations under the United Nations Human Rights Conventions. The use of force by law enforcement services is, of course, also subject to strict conditions. These rights must be exercised in compliance with other rights and freedoms and can therefore be restricted under strict conditions, for example in order to maintain public order. On 14 February 2022, the Canadian Government appealed to the Canadian Emergency Measures Act, which allows for a temporary extension of the powers of the executive when national security is seriously threatened. She had received the approval of Parliament for this. The Canadian Government considered that the action of the protesters in Ottawa, who, as you may recall, occupied the centre of the Canadian capital from 28 January to 20 February 2022 and declared their intention to overthrow the government, represented a risk of destabilising the country. Other convoys blocked the strategic border crossings with the United States. In the case of convoys in the province of Alberta, a stock of weapons and ammunition was seized. That pointed out that not all demonstrators had peaceful intentions. The announcement of the state of emergency by the Canadian Federal Government on 14 February 2022 was made in accordance with the Emergency Act and was proportionate. She was withdrawn on 23 February 2022 after nine days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u34	Madam Minister, you seem to be of a different opinion when it comes to the acquired democratic rights of citizens of a democratic country such as coming to the streets to protest against a policy being pursued. I do not share that view, and I am surprised that you do not see it as a liberal minister. If you take the disproportionate measures taken at the time, such as blocking bank accounts, denying democratic principles such as freedom of expression and the right to protest, I do not know what the violation of democratic rights means in your view. I said that the right to freedom of expression and the right to assembly were restricted, peaceful demonstrators were confronted with government violence and journalists were silenced. There were also attempts to block critical citizens' bank accounts without any form of protest. In my view, these are only disproportionate measures. If we see that organisations such as Amnesty International and others such as the Canadian Civil Liberations Association claim that it is a danger to the democratic achievements in their country, I can only say that I sincerely believe that you would strongly condemn these measures as Foreign Minister. We do so in many other cases and I think it was appropriate here too. I have taken note of your answer, but still submit the motion for a recommendation, in which we ask what I have just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u35	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - strongly condemns fundamental human rights violations in Canada; - calls the Canadian ambassador in this on the mat." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade, and the Federal Cultural Institutions, asks the government - strongly condemn violations of fundamental human rights in Canada; - to ask the Ambassador of Canada to be held accountable in this regard." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u36	Madam Minister, for 2022, the United Nations will make nearly $6 million available to the Afghan Muslim extremists of the Taliban for the protection of UN personnel. The money serves as a reward for the Taliban extremists of the Ministry of the Interior who guard UN facilities in the country. The Head of the Afghan Ministry of the Interior is Sirajuddin Haqqani, the second man of the Taliban and leader of the so-called Haqqani Network, who committed many bloody attacks during the war in the country. Every year, many millions of euros of tax money flow from Belgium to the UN, so this country is indirectly co-financing the Taliban in Afghanistan. How can that be justified? Were you aware of the contents of the report? If not, will you strongly condemn the illegal cooperation with and support for the Muslim extremists of the Taliban? If not, why not? Or have you already done that? How do you explain such support to a regime that repeatedly violates human rights? Will you raise the issue at another UN meeting? Afghanistan already had a very poor women's rights palmares for the Taliban's comeback in August 2021, but now that the Islam extremists are back in business all over the country, we're going back to square one. For example, the new Taliban regime, which wanted to show a more moderate international image, promised women the right to education. After the Afghan New Year, both boys and girls could go to school, provided they were separated. However, on 23 March, the Afghan Ministry of Education decided that all secondary schools for girls over 12 years of age should close abruptly, two hours after the start of the new school year. The schools would remain closed until a plan was drawn up in accordance with Sharia and Afghan culture. This does not predict too much good, as inequality between men and women is embedded in Islamic law and Afghan society. All this would be the result of a power struggle between moderate pragmatists and conservative hardliners of the Taliban regime, representing rural areas. Unfortunately, the latter are getting the upper hand at the moment. Have you already kept in touch with the European and American partners in the context of Afghanistan's post-Western withdrawal policy regarding the deterioration of women's rights? If so, what were those conversations? What initiatives have you recently taken or are you going to take to address this distressing issue in the relevant international fora? How does the government link this to its diplomacy, humanitarian aid or possible development cooperation in Afghanistan? Will the regime continue to be financially supported or will there be severe sanctions and political or diplomatic isolation of the country? Have you discussed this with your colleague Kitir, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u37	Madam Minister, my question was also put some time ago and it feels strange to come back to the issue now. Even if everything is about Ukraine now, neither is the rest of the world stopped. That is a pity, we could say in this case. On 23 January 2022 there was a Taliban delegation in Oslo for talks with United States government representatives led by Thomas West, the Special Representative for Afghanistan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and the European Union. Everything there was exactly peis and peace. The Taliban thanked in a tweet, in which they are very modern, Norway as a gateway to positive relations with Europe. They also asked for the $10 billion frozen to be released. What is our country's position on the EUR 10 billion frozen? For my other questions, I will refer to the written version. After all, I can imagine that you, as Foreign Minister, are already busy enough in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u38	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u39	Thank you for your answers to these questions." Minister, as the subject of women has been dealt with extensively by my colleagues, I come to my second question on the LGBT community in Afghanistan. Many NGOs are concerned about the continuing threats to these communities under the Taliban regime. Mistreatment and prosecution have intensified since the Taliban arrived last August. Those interviewed in the Human Rights Watch report reported threats, attacks and sexual violence due to their orientation and gender. They point out members of the Taliban as responsible, but also members of their families, neighbours or even sometimes partners. These threats against the LGBT community do not date back to the Taliban's arrival in power. Afghan law already prohibits any form of sexual intercourse with a person of the same sex, but today homosexuals face the death penalty. A Taliban judge told the German daily Bild: "For a homosexual, there can only be two punishments, either stoning or placing him behind a wall that is dropped." Minister, a meeting was held between the Taliban and European leaders. What were the results of these discussions? Has the issue of the rights of women and the LGBT community been addressed? What is Belgium doing to support LGBT people on the ground, but also to ensure that humanitarian visas are granted to those who wish to flee their country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u40	Since January of this year 13,000 Afghan babies have died of malnutrition and hunger-related diseases. That's about 170 babies a day. According to the UN, 95% of the Afghan population is currently living in extreme food insecurity. For families with a woman as head of the family, that figure is close to 100%. 3.5 million children are acutely hungry. According to UNICEF, one in three teenage girls suffers from anemia and 41% of Afghan children are under 5 years of age. The UN speaks of an unprecedented crisis of food insecurity and malnutrition, and they add that humanitarian aid would no longer be sufficient to resolve the crisis. The central bank of Afghanistan should be able to function to help tackle the crisis. The main reason why that central bank is not yet able to operate is that in August last year the United States froze the funds of that bank, worth $9.5 billion. 3.5 billion of these have recently been allocated to victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, an attack for which the Afghan people have no responsibility whatsoever. In August last year, the EU suspended EUR 1.2 billion of emergency and development aid previously granted. Payments by the International Monetary Fund were also suspended in September. In January 2022, Mr Guterres reported that Afghanistan's gross national product, which was 75% dependent on foreign aid during NATO's occupation, has fallen by 30% and that Afghanistan's fate is also hanging by a thread. It is understandable that there is once again a reflection to make certain aid such as financial aid, development aid or humanitarian aid conditional on the Taliban government respecting the rights of women and girls. It is absolutely scandalous that the Taliban deny the right to education for girls under 12 years of age, but also for older people. The sanctions, the freezing of Afghan funds and the holding up of aid and funding do have catastrophic consequences for 37 million people, as the United Nations and many human rights organisations have already pointed out. What is the Belgian Government's position to respond to the humanitarian catastrophe that is taking place there? Will you continue to raise this issue at European level and in all kinds of international and mutlilateral fora?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u41	Madam Minister, as some colleagues have pointed out, the return to power of the Taliban prompted our Parliament last December to adopt a motion for a resolution to protect the rights of girls and women in Afghanistan. This resolution was adopted following hearings by their representatives, who had urged us not to abandon them. However, it must be noted that the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan continue to be violated every day. I refer to the measures that have been adopted over the last few weeks: the ban on girls from going to secondary school, whereas this right was already conditioned by the mandatory wearing of hijab; the ban on women from flying without being accompanied by a man; or the separation of women and men in Kabul public parks and the subsequent establishment of visiting days for each sex. In the context where the attention of the international community has naturally turned to the war in Ukraine, these new violations of the fundamental rights of Afghan women have legitimately prompted the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to state that: "The risks of diverting attention are very, very high (...) Humanitarian aid must be channelled, regardless of the number of other crises competing with Afghanistan around the world." Minister, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. Did our State speak out against the latest measures, which I mentioned, taken against Afghan women by the Taliban? Does Belgium participate in the provision of humanitarian aid in Afghanistan, especially for women? In the positive, in what way? If not, why? How does our country advocate the cause of Afghan women at European level? Finally, in general terms, what is the Government's follow-up to the aforementioned resolution on the rights of Afghan women adopted by our Parliament last December? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u42	The visit to Oslo, with the interview between a 15-member Taliban delegation and representatives of Western countries, had two concrete goals: to find a way out of the imminent humanitarian catastrophe and to protect human rights, including women's and girls' rights. Since the beginning, all Western participants have strongly stressed that the visit was not a legitimation of the Taliban, but an opportunity to exchange thoughts and formulate concrete expectations. The European Union and its Member States, including Belgium, were aware of this meeting with the Taliban, which remains consistent with the pragmatic approach taken by the European Union and the affinity partners. Our objective is to continue to have levers in order to achieve concrete results. These results must, in particular, be within the framework of the five criteria adopted by the European Union in September 2021: non-discriminatory access to humanitarian assistance, respect for human rights – including those of women, girls and minorities –, formation of a more inclusive government, fight against terrorism and continued free passage for Afghans and foreigners who wish to leave the country. These criteria represent the agreed European position and are systematically relayed by the representative of the European Union, as was the case in Oslo, where the European Union was represented by the European Union Special Envoy for Afghanistan, Tomas Niklasson, as well as by the special envoys of Germany, France and Italy. The special representatives of the United States, the United Kingdom and Norway were also present and supported similar positions. Belgium does not participate in the international meetings of the Special Envoys for Afghanistan, which are organised in a limited circle and reserved for representatives of the European countries most involved in Afghanistan, particularly in the field of humanitarian aid, namely Germany, France and Italy. Therefore, Belgium could not take specific initiatives for that meeting, except to ensure that the general criteria and principles agreed by the EU Member States are correctly communicated. There were contacts in three areas. Firstly, there was a direct dialogue between the Taliban and representatives of Afghan civil society, human rights organisations, women's rights activists and journalists, who raised various problems, including the recent abduction of women's rights activists. It was the first time since the takeover of power that such a dialogue took place and an explicit condition of Norway. A joint statement was published. It was especially important because it was there, and not so much about its content. The declaration recognises the importance of understanding and cooperation during such meetings. Secondly, there was a dialogue between the Taliban and various Western countries. The European representatives reiterated the EU position on the basis of the conclusion of the European Council of September 2021. Thirdly, there was a bilateral dialogue between the Taliban and Norway. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Henrik Thune, led the Norwegian delegation and has put strong emphasis on human rights, including women's rights and minority rights, and the importance of the creation of an international framework by the Taliban to address the humanitarian crisis. There was also a dialogue between the Taliban and the Norwegian humanitarian organisation Norwegian Refugee Council. The Oslo meeting, first and foremost, sparked momentum by establishing contacts between the Taliban and representatives of Afghan civil society. It has paved the way for an indispensable dialogue between these two opposing sides with a view to creating a more inclusive and therefore more stable Afghanistan. This meeting also helped to create a framework for increased – but conditional – engagement of Western countries with the Taliban. Careful monitoring and continued pressure to meet their commitments will of course be necessary. So far, there has been no significant progress. On the contrary, while the Taliban committed to reopening schools for girls over the age of 12 at the end of March, we have seen last week that this commitment has not been fulfilled. Finally, the Oslo meeting provided an opportunity to discuss the dire humanitarian situation and the main challenges in this regard, including the lack of liquidity and the issue of frozen Afghan assets. Any decision in this regard will affect the work of humanitarian organizations. These very complex issues are currently being discussed at a technical level within specialised bodies, such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as well as with the countries whose banks hold frozen Afghan assets, in particular the United States, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Technical solutions are possible, but this requires political support, in particular for the possible release of certain Afghan assets. The EU still does not have a coordinated position on the issue of releasing funds. To be comprehensive on this subject, mention should be made of the executive order adopted by President Biden on 11 February 2022 for the thawing of $7 billion of Afghan Central Bank funds held in United States banks, the management of which will be entrusted to an interim financing mechanism; $3.5 billion will be used to recapitalize the Afghan financial system, including the Afghan Central Bank. Contrary to what is claimed in some press releases, these funds cannot be used by UN organisations to address humanitarian needs unless the Afghan Interim Government gives its consent, which seems highly unlikely at this stage. The US President has proposed to use the remaining USD 3.5 billion to compensate the families of the victims of the attacks of 11 September 2001. The admissibility of this proposal, which has provoked strong negative reactions not only from the Taliban but also from the Afghan people and some UN actors, has yet to be approved by the US Department of Justice. According to the information available to me, the situation of the LGBTQI community was not specifically addressed at the Oslo meeting. In this regard, it should be recalled that, because of the cultural and religious traditions of Afghanistan, this community was already in a very precarious economic and security situation even before the Taliban took power. Often forced to hide, LGBTQI have virtually no access to the labour market and little exposure to the networks of UN humanitarian agencies and international NGOs that can help them. In this context, and given the absence of a Belgian embassy in Kabul, it is difficult for Belgium to consider projects at this stage to protect the rights of LGBTQI people. However, there is no doubt that this discussion will have to be followed up by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, whose mandate has just been renewed for a year, as well as by the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan. Your question about the possible granting of humanitarian visas to LGBTQI is not a matter for me, but a matter for the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, to whom I recommend you to address. In reply to the question about the money that Belgium has paid to the United Nations and that would indirectly finance the Taliban in Afghanistan, I would like to remind you that the Belgian contribution to the United Nations budget is not paid directly to a special political mission such as the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) or a country. The budget is determined at organisational level and in accordance with our international obligations and commitments Belgium pays its obligatory contribution. UNAMA plays an important role. The mandate of UNAMA was extended by the Security Council on 17 March 2022 until March 2023. The promotion of the rule of law, monitoring and reporting on human rights and women's rights in particular are part of the mandate of UNAMA. This also includes reporting on targeted executions and enforced disappearances – a report that is valuable to all observers and actors. UNAMA is also asked to identify the risks associated with the UN's coordination of aid in Afghanistan. This includes the risk of misuse of such aid. According to estimates by OCHA, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, this year more than 24 million Afghans will need essential life-saving aid. Needs have increased at all levels, in particular with regard to food insecurity and malnutrition. The UN and its agencies on the ground are trying to prevent a worsening of the humanitarian crisis. The presence of the UN in Afghanistan is therefore crucial for the Afghan people, but also for Belgium and the international community in general, because it provides us with important information on the situation on the ground. In view of ongoing international and geopolitical development, the protection of UN personnel is essential for the implementation of the mission. Of course, we remain vigilant with our EU partners about how the UN budget is actually used. I am following with the greatest attention the evolution of the situation, both in the field and in international fora. Mr De Vuyst, our country is well aware of the dramatic needs of the Afghan people. At the humanitarian level, Belgium supports the efforts of the international organisation through its flexible annual contribution to its core budget. In addition to this contribution, a special contribution of EUR 2 million was made in the framework of the high-level ministerial meeting of 13 September 2021 on addressing humanitarian needs in Afghanistan. A new virtual High-Level Pledging Event will take place on March 31st. Belgium should announce a new humanitarian emergency contribution, but I invite you to address your question to Minister Kitir, who has the authority to do so. I would like to return to the human rights situation and, in particular, to the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan. I remain very alert to the general human rights situation in Afghanistan. Belgium does not hesitate to draw attention to human rights in the relevant fora and in particular to the situation of women and girls. During the 49th session of the Human Rights Council, our country joined a joint statement on the human rights of women and girls in Afghanistan. Belgium has also intervened under the national title, where our country has strongly condemned human rights violations in Afghanistan, with particular attention to the situation in which women and girls find themselves and their right to education, work, health, freedom of movement and freedom of expression. Mrs Rohonyi, Mr Moutquin, we take the situation of women and girls very seriously. The exclusion of girls from schools, a decision confirmed last week, was widely denounced by the international community to put pressure on the Taliban. Together with my female counterparts, we adopted a statement on 25 March, urging the Taliban to respect their words and allow the return of girls to schools. We will continue to mobilize on this issue, which once again illustrates the need to judge the Taliban on their actions, not on their words. Belgium is also supporting a project specifically dedicated to the protection of women in Afghanistan. Funded under the Peacebuilding Programme, this project has created two shelters for women at increased risk in Afghanistan: women's rights activists, journalists, women politicians, etc. In this way, these women and their loved ones can find shelter, escape imminent threats, receive psychological support and help with their relocation to Afghanistan. As you can see, both diplomatically at all levels and operationally in Afghanistan through humanitarian funding, but also through specific projects, Belgium is strongly committed to the cause of Afghan women. I must add that this is also a personal priority. I am therefore particularly committed to implementing the resolution adopted by Parliament last December. I have just detailed how we take this into account in our various areas of work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u43	Madam Minister, alertness and vigilance are important in this respect. Even when it comes to indirect aid, it remains a regrettable matter. That is not acceptable to my party. It would be more logical that no euro cent of our taxpayers' money should flow to the Taliban. Unfortunately, we know with certainty that financial support does not benefit the population and certainly not the thousands of girls who have been banned from school since 23 March 2022. Right to education is a fundamental human right. It is unacceptable for the Taliban to ban that right on girls over 12 years of age. Not only does this decision have detrimental consequences for the social reconstruction and economic growth of Afghanistan, but it also deprives those brave girls of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u44	Madam Secretary, don't get us wrong. It is not that we say that this delegation should not have been received in Oslo. We are, as you seem, in favour of dialogue, even in this case, especially when we hear that the aim was also to discuss human rights and the rights of girls in Afghanistan. However, we have to face up to the fact that one point of what has been discussed in Oslo has not been very successful. Let us therefore assume that we will continue to monitor the situation very carefully. We continue to advocate talking and talking. Otherwise we will have nothing more to say there and we will certainly not be able to bring about any change. I am particularly pleased that you also make it very clear that we do not recognise the regime. We are counting on you to keep that position unchanged.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u45	Madam Minister, as often, I personally thank you for having been able to find channels, through indirect aids, to protect Afghan women in particular. I think this is the intelligence of diplomacy: to be able to help Afghans who are not responsible for the regime which, unfortunately, took power in Kabul. For ethnic minorities - the Hazara, women, the LGBT community, journalists, political opponents - there is no surprise at what the Taliban policy is about. We knew it before. Yet, through the independent institution of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA), Belgium has decided not to freeze decisions on Afghans here in Belgium and to allow Afghans to be deported to Afghanistan. This is not within your competence, and I will ask your colleague Mr Mahdi tomorrow. When I listen to you today and when I listen to my colleagues on the committee, I think there is a contradiction that is not the responsibility of the government. But I can only encourage you to dialogue with Mr Mahdi - who has to discuss himself with CGRA so that Belgium can reconsider his decision - and, as the United Nations Agency for Refugees (UNHCR) is advising at this time, to keep the freeze on decisions on asylum seekers in Afghanistan as long as the situation in that country can be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u46	Madam Minister, you said that Belgium is fulfilling its commitments and that we also continue to support our efforts by UNAMA, the UN Humanitarian Assistance Organisation in Afghanistan. However, I would urge the Belgian Government not to fall into the trap of further legitimising the Taliban regime at the expense of increased humanitarian suffering among the population. We have seen that the Afghan people have been in an endemic war situation over the last 20 years, twenty years of military occupation. The population was the victim of this. The fact that a great deal of aid has now been suspended because of the freezing of a large number of reserves from the central bank will, ironically, achieve the opposite of what one wants to avoid. By drying up the aid flows, we run the risk that the many girls for whom we advocate the right to education may not reach the age of 12 years. I would like to call on this government to continue to honour its commitment within the United Nations and to maintain its dialogue. I believe that from a humanitarian point of view we should still consider continuing to provide support on the ground, even if it is to be done through government agencies which unfortunately are under the control of the Taliban regime. We must choose that rather than a complete humanitarian catastrophe in which people simply die of hunger. That's what I wanted to give you anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for your voluntarism in this matter. We feel that you care about this issue, as you do with us. If I insisted earlier on the words spoken by the representatives of the NGO Mothers for Peace when we conducted the hearings on the margins of this famous resolution, it was because by calling on us not to abandon them, it was a moral duty for all of us, but also a political duty. Indeed, this motion for a resolution states that attention to the rights and freedoms of women and girls and to gender equality must be a constant priority at all times. That is why I was pleased to see that this meeting in Oslo was able to take place in order to formulate our demands. I believe that this is essential both in the head of our European States and in the head of the representatives of Afghan civil society. Formulating our demands does not mean that we recognize, let alone legitimate, this government. Now, as you have said, it must be noted that this initiative is insufficient and in any case not binding enough to ensure that the Taliban comply with their commitments. Unfortunately, the example of the ban on girls from attending school is very striking and very challenging. You have detailed a great deal of action that has been taken, but I would like to stress one of the remaining requests, namely to carry out a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan. This is also an appeal that was recently launched by 54 NGOs. I think it is a political duty to go in this direction, especially from the moment when violations of women's rights, but also of LGBT people, as mentioned earlier, are now flagrant and systematic. That is why the need for humanitarian assistance is constantly increasing. I therefore think that alongside the many levers that have already been activated, we still have this one, which could also be activated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u48	Would one more member like to join the replies in the actua debate? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u49	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u50	Mrs Samyn, at the European Summit on 24 and 25 June, the European States and Heads of Government gave their approval to an actual extension of both the Turkey deal and the aid to refugees in other countries receiving refugees from the region. We are therefore also talking about Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq. For the period 2021-2024, EUR 5.7 billion will be allocated, including EUR 3.5 billion for Turkey and EUR 2.2 billion for the other countries. A discussion between the European Commission and the Member States on the precise allocation of resources has not yet taken place. The funds allocated to Turkey are therefore fully drawn from the resources of the Commission, the EU budget. A number of EU Facility for Refugees projects in Turkey are funded thanks to previous years of allocated budgets. Of course, we assume that the Emergency Social Safety Net programme, a direct monthly financial contribution for Syrian refugees' food in Turkey, and the Conditional Cash Transfers for Education programme have a substantial share in future spending on refugees in Turkey. On 21 December last, the European Commission approved an envelope of EUR 560 million. That amount is part of the EUR 3.5 billion for Turkey. 530 million of this goes to ongoing commitments under the EU Facility for Refugees in Turkey, mainly on education. In addition, EUR 30 million of support will be allocated to help tackle migration and border management problems. The EU Facility for Refugees in Turkey has always functioned on the basis of projects carried out by NGOs and international organisations, while the management of financial resources remains in the hands of the EU. Future financing will in principle be based on the same principle. Only in certain circumstances will the Turkish authorities be reimbursed for their costs. This concerns specifically invoiced expenditure in the health and education sectors. With regard to the EU-Turkey Declaration of 16 March, there are indeed references to the modernisation of the customs union and visa liberalisation. Unlike Turkey's interpretation, it does not contain an unconditional commitment by the EU on these two issues. They are each linked to defined criteria. Turkey does not fulfil all the criteria, either as regards visa liberalisation or as regards the modernisation of the customs union. Indeed, in the past, we had to observe that Turkey does not hesitate to use the migration theme as a means of exerting pressure on the EU. The unacceptable events of February 2020 at the border with Greece are proof of this. Of course, we do not have guarantees for the future, but we must not forget that the Turkey deal is in the interests of everyone. The deal provides substantial funds that benefit refugees and host communities. He offers refugees dignified living conditions. He's helping us manage migratory flows through Turkey. In short, it is in everyone's interest that the EU should continue to support the refugees in Turkey. As regards the other countries in the region receiving Syrian refugees, the EU Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis, established on 15 December 2014, expired on 14 December 2021, but the European Commission presented a proposal on a continuation of support to countries affected by the Syrian refugee crisis on the basis of the funds allocated in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2024. This amounts to an indicative amount of EUR 2.24 billion for aid to refugees and their host community, mainly in Lebanon, Jordan, Syria and Iraq. An important part of it concerns humanitarian aid. Envelopes were adopted to improve the situation of refugees in Lebanon to the tune of EUR 90 million, Jordan to the amount of EUR 29 million, Syria to the amount of EUR 41 million and Iraq to the amount of EUR 75 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. There is nothing against such agreements with third countries, as in this case Turkey, but it naturally depends on what conditions. In any case, the pain remains the withdrawal, as agreed, of refugees who have reached the territory of the EU from Turkey. Your answer to a question I asked earlier showed that. Moreover, the illegal influx from Turkey is not entirely under control. This spring, for example, Cyprus is facing increasing illegal immigration through Turkey. A few days ago, the Cypriot Minister for the Interior said that this was extremely worrying and announced that he would inform the European Commission in detail by letter. The least we can expect is that Turkey will honour its commitments and take back Syrians from the Greek islands. In addition, it must also do what it has to do to curb illegal migration through its territory to Europe. I hope you will continue to remind the Turkish authorities of their obligations in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u52	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u53	Mrs Van Bossuyt, all parliaments have now completed their assent procedure. As I explained in committee on 20 December last, Belgium is dependent on the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the submission of the instruments of ratification and thus the entry into force of this agreement, as it concerns the termination of BLEU investment questions. Belgium has therefore fulfilled its obligation and is currently awaiting the completion of the procedure in Luxembourg. The termination agreement shall enter into force for both parties to a bilateral investment agreement where both Belgium and Luxembourg and the partner country in question have provided the depositary with their instruments of ratification. On 2 December 2021, the European Commission launched an infringement procedure against Belgium and Luxembourg for failing to terminate the extra-EU investment contribution. To this end, Belgium received a notice of formal notice with a deadline of two months, which was extended for a period of two months at the request of Belgium. In this procedure, the Court of Justice may not impose a financial penalty, but may only determine that the Member State is in default and that it is in breach of European law. The Court of Justice is clear in its Achmea judgment. Investors can no longer derive procedural protection from bilateral investment treaties between EU Member States. There is a pending arbitration case with direct involvement of a Belgian investor. It concerns an investment dispute initiated against Italy following the Achmea judgment, i.e. without a legal basis. Belgium has already informed the arbitration tribunal on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u54	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I hear that all state parliaments have now ratified the agreement. Civil proceedings have been initiated by the European Commission. If I can count correctly, the extended deadline expires at the end of this month or next month. I wonder what the consequences will be. Perhaps there will be no pecuniary sanctions, as you say, but there will be a blasphemy. For investors, this creates legal uncertainty. There's a lawsuit pending right now. Hopefully, we can fix the situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u55	Mr Moutquin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u56	Madam Secretary, Ms Shatha Odeh, the director of the Health Work Committees, who, with ten health centres, two hospitals and more than 350 employees, is one of the main care providers in the West Bank and in the surrounding rural areas, was arrested at home by the military occupying forces on 7 July 2021. Today, more than eight months later, she's still in remand in Damon's Israeli prison. Mrs Odeh is also President of the Palestinian NGO Network (PNGO), almost the equivalent of the Belgian 11.11.11-CNCD. Imagine the Belgian government criminalising and accusing half of civil society of terrorist activities, and throwing the President of 11.11.11 in jail. That's what's happening out there right now. It is not just a flagrant violation of Mrs Odeh's most basic human rights. It has acquired covid-19 in the notorious unhealthy conditions in which it is held captive. She herself speaks of a dark, damp cell where Palestinian political prisoners are systematically denied certain medical care. That often leads to death. Mrs. Odeh is 60 years old and suffers from chronic diseases, so she's a high-risk patient. Mrs. Odeh's family has not been able to visit her since October 2021. Since her arrest, many human rights organisations worldwide and the United Nations, including through UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, have demanded Mary Lawlor's immediate release. The Health Work Committees are a Belgian development partner. The Belgian diplomatic services and Palestine have followed the case closely. I hope they still do. Have you received any recent information on Mrs. Odeh's state of health? What have you done so far or what will you do to put pressure on the Israeli regime to release Mrs Odeh and the many other Palestinian human rights activists and political prisoners? What action will the government take to force the apartheid state of Israel to stop its authoritarian attack on all Palestinian civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u57	Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Ben Accour have been excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u58	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, on 22 October, the Israeli government decided to call six of the most important Palestinian human rights NGOs, namely Al-Haq, Addameer, the Union of Agricultural Labour Committees, the Bisan Research and Development Centre, Defense for Children Palestine and the Union of Palestinian Women's Committees, as "terrorists". Some of them are actively working with our Cooperation. Israel used the pretext of hypothetical links with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (FPLP) to establish this measure, without, however, giving any proof of it. In November, in the debate that followed the presentation of your policy note, you stressed that anti-terrorism legislation could not be used "to unwarrantedly violate civil liberties or to restrict the legitimate work of human rights organisations". Today, it is up to us that in the European fora some would express their wish to follow the Israeli government on this point. This would be particularly strong in the head of the Commissioner for Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy. Do you confirm the reality of this threat? Is Belgium's position still to support these NGOs? What actions does our country take to defend them at European level? Madam Minister, on 21 February, on the ban on settlement products, a European citizens' initiative was launched to ban trade with Israeli settlements in the occupied territories. The aim is to obtain one million signatures in one year, including fifteen thousand in Belgium. It is on this condition that the initiators will be able to be heard by Parliament and the Commission and that the latter will have to take a decision and justify it. The process is supported by about 100 NGOs including Avaaz, Human Rights Watch and the International Federation for Human Rights. At the same time, the CNCD-11.11.11. has reactivated the Belgian Made in Illegality campaign, which shares the same objective and is supported by some 30 organisations and trade unions. We know that the European Union is the first export market for the Hebrew state and that a substantial proportion of these products come from the colonies. Since 2015, labelling has been mandatory in the European Union. However, this imperative is far from being respected. That is why this government has decided to move forward with the policy of differentiation and that a working group has been set up. How do you respond to the European Citizens' Initiative? If necessary, if the conditions for taking into account were met, could you relay this request at European level? Could you provide an update on the progress of the work of the working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, several of the questions relate to the so-called narrowing of the civic space in Palestine and to the Israeli allegations against six Palestinian NGOs, some of which are partners in indirect cooperation in Belgium. At the bilateral level, on the financing of Belgium, Minister Kitir spoke at length on the subject at the External Relations Committee on 23 March. I will therefore not go back to those elements which are, moreover, within the competence of my colleague in charge of development cooperation. I was also asked about European measures targeting certain Palestinian NGOs. The Commission suspended funding for Palestinian NGOs that received direct or indirect financial support and were the subject of Israeli allegations dating from May and October 2021. Very logically, the Commission cannot take specific measures with regard to other NGOs that do not benefit from European funding. As you know, Belgium and the Member States concerned with the financing of Palestinian NGOs targeted by Israeli allegations are engaged in a process of consultation with the European Commission and the European External Action Service. These consultations are still under way. Belgium takes an active part in this in order to bring them to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. During these exchanges, the Commission is asked about the legal grounds and grounds for suspending European funding for certain Palestinian NGOs. We are still awaiting further clarification in this regard. As regards the elements transmitted by the Israeli side, the Commission is still engaged in a process of document analysis. These documents are classified and cannot be shared with Member States. Together with the European partners concerned, Belgium calls for the relevant bodies of the European Union to share their conclusions as soon as possible. The documents transmitted by Israel to the Commission are classified. This is also the case with information transmitted by the Israeli services to their Belgian counterparts. They are therefore not in a position to compare the information received by the Commission with that provided to Belgium, let alone comment here. Ms. Shatha Odeh's trial was scheduled for March 1. Since then, the hearing has been postponed several times. Our diplomatic post in Jerusalem is kept informed by her lawyer and is regularly in contact with the NGO that follows the situation of the Palestinian prisoners and assists them legally. Our mail also has contact with Mrs. Odeh's daughter. Before that, Mrs Odeh already suffered from chronic diseases and underlying health conditions, which could deteriorate in stressful circumstances. Covid can cause additional complications. She'd be well cared for at the prison hospital. Belgium's general position on administrative detention is clear. Administrative detention should remain an exceptional measure applied for a limited period of time and the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial should be guaranteed within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Madam Minister, Mrs Odeh's inhuman treatment is exemplary for the systematic Israeli attacks on all Palestinian civil society and society, with the sole aim of silenceing all critical voices. It continues to oppress and persecute the Palestinian people. I do not need to repeat that these are internationally recognised crimes against humanity. I hear from you once again a rhetorical condemnation, but in the facts we see that the State of Israel continues to enjoy unconditional support from our country and from the whole of the West. To give an idea, the Myanmar regime does exactly the same: it attacks health workers and other important civil servants to intimidate and helpless an entire community. I must say that I find it scandalous that Belgium, the European Union and the whole of the West continue to support Israel unconditionally, while the United Nations Human Rights Council confirms that the Israeli coloniser has introduced an apartheid state. This kind of hypocrisy deprives all the credibility of claims made by Belgium and Europe that they would be consistently defenders of democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u61	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, indeed, I have heard your reply and your caution with regard to the elements that cause documents and information to be classified and that, of course, you do not have access to it. In your policy statement, you explained - I mentioned earlier - that anti-terrorism legislation cannot be used to unwarrantedly violate civil liberties or to restrict the legitimate work of human rights organisations. I take note of this again, on the basis of your answer. There is a real need for vigilance on this issue. I would like to refer to the very brief mention made by the United Nations rapporteur, who calls the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories apartheid. I believe that there has never been such a clear report by a special rapporteur, who blames the international community for allowing Israel to have established a political system there for decades of occupation, which it has called apartheid. He also says that the Israeli occupation, now in its 55th year, and far from the end, is increasingly rooted and repressive. I believe, in relation to the habit that Belgium has had of defending human rights wherever they are threatened, that we must be vigilant with regard to the abuses that might arise in this state.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament 55024733C by Mrs Verhaert will be converted into a written question. Sophie Rohonyi is no longer present for her question No. 55024744C. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Els Van Hoof's 55025852C will be converted into a written question. Mr Metsu is not present for his question No. 55024820C. Debates of the European Parliament 55024934C 55025504C) by Mr De Vuyst and Mr De Vuyst 55026585C by Mrs Van Hoof are postponed. Mrs Buyst is not present for her question No. 55024990C. Mr Defossé is not present for his combined question No. Question No 55025039C and the related questions 55025184C, 55025688C and 55025899C by Mrs Van Hoof are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u63	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u64	Mrs Samyn, thank you for your question on the recent official visit of His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen to Oman and the United Arab Emirates, which took place from 2 to 6 February 2022. The aim of the official visit was to promote Belgium's expertise and know-how in areas such as energy, construction and the port sector. With his presence, the royal couple also celebrated the Belgian day on Dubai's expo. During the visit, the monarchs were in contact with the highest authorities in both countries. It is not customary to comment on the content of such discussions. As I accompanied the princes, I also intended a political dialogue with the authorities of both countries with my presence on the mission. I have therefore been able to hold in-depth political discussions with my colleagues, Mr Sayyid Badr Albusaidi of Oman and Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Mrs Reem Al Hashimy of the United Arab Emirates. During these discussions, human rights and specifically women's rights took an important place. In Oman, the subject was widely discussed during my conversation with my colleague, the Foreign Minister. In doing so, I drew attention to the questions and recommendations that we put forward during the most recent universal periodic review in January 2021, in particular on freedom of expression and freedom of the press, women's rights and gender-based violence. The emphasis on human rights was also at the heart of our contacts in Dubai with the authorities of the United Arab Emirates, which are currently members of both the Security Council and the United Nations Human Rights Council. I advocated more bilateral cooperation in the field of human rights, in particular on the issues that our country even defended during our recent mandate in the Security Council, for example in relation to children and armed conflicts. Finally, I also stressed the importance of gender equality and freedom of the press. On the occasion of the Belgian day at Dubai World Expo, Belgium organised an economic event to highlight the role of the trade unions, in which the King participated. This showed our commitment to workers' rights. Belgium will continue to argue in its bilateral contacts for respect for human rights and women's rights in particular. Belgium is prepared to cooperate on this issue, both bilaterally and at European level, where the dialogue with the Gulf States has been used to discuss human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I am pleased that you have the opportunity to address a number of essential issues such as women's rights, children's rights and, indeed, workers' rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament 55025186C by Mrs Van Hoof is converted into a written question. Mr De Smet is not present for his question No. 55025274C. Mrs Rohonyi is also not present for her question No 55025279C. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ponthier's 55025312C was postponed. Mr Moutquin is not present for his question No. 55025345C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin's 55025351C and 55025652C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u67	I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u68	Based on the latest available data from the Greek authorities, 2436 cases were recorded between 2015 and 2020 with a sharp increase between 2015 and 2018. According to the competent Ministry, this increase is primarily noted by a better data collection. Since then, we have seen a decrease. For example, a total of 590 incidents occurred in 2018, 524 in 2019 and 404 incidents were recorded in 2020. In a large majority of cases it was about theft and vandalism, which is defined as the deliberate destruction or belching of public or private property. This is often about graffiti in Greek writing. The perpetrators are unknown in the vast majority of cases, but if they are known, only nationality is mentioned: 117 offenders were Greek, 21 came from other European countries and (...) offenders came from third countries. From what I have just said, it can be inferred that the claim that there is a link between the word "Islamic," illegal immigration and the violation of Christian heritage is not based on facts and that the Greek competent authorities themselves do not make that connection. I have therefore had no consultation with the Greek authorities on this matter. Belgium argues at European level on asylum and migration for a balanced approach between responsibility and solidarity. Instead of ad hoc measures, our country is calling for progress to be made in adopting the European Pact on Migration and Asylum, which provides a structural solution to the migration crises. We call for a European commitment on the ground, in particular through Frontex's expertise, to strengthen the infrastructure that allows effective protection of our external borders while ensuring respect for international law and the right to asylum. In 2021, six Belgians were deployed in the Frontex missions in the framework of European Border Management. Our country also promotes active monitoring of the border procedure by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the Fundamental Rights Officer, its auditors within Frontex, as well as the European Union Agency for Asylum.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u69	It is good that there is active monitoring. It remains regrettable that religious-cultural heritage is damaged or vandalised. I will read your figures again and I will certainly come back to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u70	Mr Loones is not present for his question No. 55025468C. Mr De Smet is also not present for his question No. 55025503C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u71	Minister, at a meeting of the European Parliament's Security and Defence Sub-Committee on 26 January, EU Chief of Staff Hervé Bléjean indicated the European Union's intention to finance, through the European Peace Facility, the deployment of Rwandan troops to Mozambique to combat jihadists in the north of the country. Meanwhile, the Belgian-Rwandan national Paul Rusesabagina is still detained in Rwanda in deplorable conditions of detention and without access to a fair trial. Minister, after the European Union-African Union summit, did the European Union demand the release of Mr Rusesabagina from the Rwandan authorities in the context of the financing negotiations with Rwanda? Will Belgium require guarantees in terms of respect for human rights in order to condition the financing of Rwandan troops or is that already the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u72	Mr President, on this occasion I met with the Rwandan Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Vincent Biruta. We have a different analysis of the situation of Paul Rusesabagina but we agree that a respectful dialogue must take place on the situation of our compatriot. The transfer of Mr Rusesabagina to Belgium is not possible. The transfer of prisoners is only possible if there is a bilateral or multilateral treaty on this subject, which is currently not the case. As regards the questions on the possibility of European support for Rwandan troops in Mozambique, the possibility of such funding is indeed one of the proposals recently discussed between the Member States. It is clear, however, that such a proposal did not reach unanimity in the first exchanges. Respect for human rights is of course one of the priorities in this debate, particularly for Belgium. I would also like to say that Belgium supports the fight against terrorism in Cabo Delgado in Mozambique, and we note that the situation has now improved, in particular as a result of the intervention of Rwandan troops. Belgium is therefore open to studying the support mentioned. I believe, however, that in the interests of Mr Rusesabagina, these two issues must remain separate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We know that Mr. Rusesabagina's situation is precarious. It has already been widely debated in this committee and, on a regular basis, it has been discussed in oral questions. I believe that we must use all the means at our disposal to exert diplomatic pressure to free Paul Rusesabagina. I also understand your response that the two issues must be separated in view of the importance of combating terrorism in Mozambique. Nevertheless, we must bear in mind that when Rwanda needs us, we must press for it to release this gentleman. I will continue to follow this up with my colleague Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u74	Minister, it has now been four years since the resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa was adopted. It is therefore necessary to know what the Government has so far implemented in order to follow up on the eleven recommendations of this resolution, especially since the work of the Special Commission on the Colonial Past established in 2020 is ongoing. Minister, how many and what recommendations of the resolution have been fully implemented to date? How many recommendations are being implemented? How many and what recommendations have not yet been made, and if there are, why have they not yet known the beginning? What is the status of the first phase of Métis segregation research project that began September 1, 2019? Is it on track? Have Métis people ever been able to access their archives to reconstruct their family histories and histories? What progress has been made in the research conducted by CegeSoma on the role of civil authorities and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of the Métis during colonial times in the Belgian Congo and in the Ruanda-Urundi? Will the findings of this research be made available to the Special Commission on the colonial past as part of its work? How are the measures taken for this file coordinated with those of the federated entities, specifically with regard to the procedures for the collection of birth certificates of Métis persons? With regard to the examination of past injustices to African mothers and their Métis children, do you envisage a collaborative procedure between Belgian, Congolese, Burundian and Rwandan embassies to help the Métis in the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi identify their biological relatives? In order to assist the Métis in their search for filiation and to ensure the proper implementation of the recommendations of the resolution, do you intend to urge, with the assistance of the competent authorities, the creation of the French-speaking equivalent of the Afstammingscentrum existing in Flanders (the filiation research centre) in Brussels and Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u75	Since 2018, many measures have been taken to respond to the various demands of the "metis" resolution. In fact, on 14 February, at a hearing of the Special Commission on the colonial past, the Special Envoy for the Great Lakes region took stock, for my department, of the implementation of the "metis" resolution. I would like to refer you to his speech for a full overview. I confirm that the offices concerned – including that of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration – are regularly in contact with each other, not only with each other but also with the Métis associations. In accordance with the requests made in the resolution, a research project on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization is currently being conducted under the joint direction of the SPF Foreign Affairs and the State Archives. The first phase of the project began in 2019. The aim is to list all the information from the available sources in order to trace the routes. The second phase, which consists of detailed historical research on the role of the various Belgian authorities in the treatment of Métis people in colonial times, began in February this year. For further information on the progress of this work, I invite you to address the Secretary of State for Scientific Policy. As for access to the regional archives, the SPF Foreign Affairs decided to declassify these colonial archives and transfer them to the State Archives. The transfer is under way and the persons concerned can apply to the team of the General Archives of the Kingdom – in charge of the research project – for the reference of all the files identified as concerning them, as well as the indication of their place of storage. As stated in the General Archives of the Kingdom, the arrangements for consulting the archives may differ depending on the nature of the archives and their services. This is why the federal government will continue to encourage institutions and organizations to reopen the archives relating to Métis children displaced in Belgium. Contacts with federated entities focus on archives and the search for origins in order to give a possible impetus to the creation of a French-language research centre of origin of the Afstammingscentrum type. This subject is the responsibility of the federated entities, which, as for the rest, exercise their competences autonomously. All requests have, at the very least, begun to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. This issue is, of course, a ghost for Belgium and will remain so until we exorcise it. To exorcise it, we will have to make every effort to do justice to those people who have experienced the iniquity of being robbed of their mother, their past, their history. This is all the more essential since time is our enemy. We all know that mothers are getting older and it will soon be impossible to bring families together. Then only symbolic gestures will remain. Even if they are important, we must insist on the present and what is most urgent. In addition, I have already addressed the Secretary of State for Privacy to expedite the handling of the issue of Métis access to archives. As you suggest, I will also question the Secretary of State for Science Policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u77	On 2 February 2022, Madam Minister, a resolution on guaranteeing the democratic and political rights of members of the Catalan Parliament was adopted by the Flemish Parliament. This was the result of a letter received by Laura Borràs i Castanyer, President of the Catalan Parliament, concerning the possible exclusion of MP Pau Juvillà, elected to the Catalan Parliament on 14 February 2021. It must be noted that this decision of the Flemish Parliament - while respecting Flanders' autonomy on the subject - is not in the direction of improving diplomatic relations between our country and Spain. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this. Did Belgium react to the adoption of this resolution by the Flemish Parliament? Have you had any contact with your Spanish counterpart in this direction? How did the Spanish Government react? Did any information come back to you from our diplomatic post on the spot? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u78	Mr President, first of all, I would like to make it clear that it is not for the federal government to decide on the resolutions adopted by Parliament by one of the federated entities. You said it yourself, everyone has their skills. Therefore, there is no need to discuss this resolution with my counterpart, nor has this resolution been discussed by the Spanish authorities in their contacts with the FPS Foreign Affairs services or with our embassy. As regards the situation of Mr Pau Juvillà and his exclusion from the Parliament of Catalonia, these are judicial decisions taken in a state governed by the rule of law, in this case a partner within the European Union, and it is therefore not for me to comment on them. Respect for the principle of separation of powers prevents the government from commenting on judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic743x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that it is not for the federal government to judge the legitimacy of a resolution passed by a federated entity. Of course, it is true that, for the image of Belgium, I believe that this creates a continuing problem vis-à-vis Spain. According to my information from Spain, this is indeed a problem. I think that, first of all, we must remember that the Spanish Constitution is a point of balance. A point of balance that was voted in 1978, in the aftermath of the Franco dictatorship, when all the parties - communists, socialists, centrists, liberals, including the moderate Catalan nationalists and the heirs of the Franco regime - set themselves around the table to vote on this Constitution. I believe that it is within Spain that we need to define what is going on there, while, of course, recognising the autonomy of Catalonia, like other parts of Spain. I believe that we must be careful to maintain sound and respectful bilateral relations with this democratic State.
