ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u1	Madam Secretary, your government partners continue to interfere in the pension file and the reform you are working on. On 26 January it was up to the two presidents of the liberal parties, who, in a discussion with the newspaper Le Soir, approached your proposals critically, to say the least. Madam Minister, the liberal government partners want to charge a minimum working period of 20 years. Was that spoken to you? Both Presidents are very critical of your party's views. What's your opinion on that? To what extent will you find a basis within the government to push your point of view? Under no circumstances do both Presidents want to return to the legislative changes introduced by the Michel administration. To what extent are your plans compatible with the measures implemented at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u2	Madam Secretary, we have already touched you a few times and tried to pry something off. This question was tabled a while ago, on 31 January, but it remains relevant. In committee, you informed us that your pension plan would be discussed in the nuclear cabinet, after the bilateral contacts you have had with the various Deputy Prime Ministers, the social partners and various academics in recent weeks. Our patience is rewarded. Not here, because we still need to hear it from the newspapers. In De Tijd it is stated that the plan ahead is nothing different from what happened last September. You maintain a career condition of 42 years for early retirement and a retirement age of 67 years. Is there going to be a solution for the heavy-duty professions? What is your final decision on the treated periods? How do you rhyme with the goal of making everyone work with the large number of long-term sick?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u3	Madam President, I have two questions. I could therefore have a four-minute speaking time. However, I will stick to the two minutes agreed. That's no problem at all. I will start with my second question, because it is largely in line with the previous speakers' question, especially from Mrs Samyn. It deals with the minimum pension and the conditions of the ten or twenty years of effective part-time work and the uncertainty and disagreement that still exists within Vivaldi. My other question, which has not yet been asked by my esteemed colleagues, is as follows. Madam Secretary, you've studied the file quite carefully. So you will undoubtedly have read the paper of the Study Committee on Ageing in this area. That committee makes it very clear that the additional annual public social expenditure in 2050, which is still far, but not so far, will be EUR 18 billion higher than it is today. This is in a scenario of 1.1 % productivity growth per year. If productivity growth is not achieved and comes to 0,7%, which is about the average of the 20 years before the corona crisis, the ageing bill will increase by just as much as 35 billion euros per year. Those are very high amounts. The cost of ageing should therefore be one of your major concerns in the pension reform. I can refer to Mr Bart Van Craeynest's press release in De Tijd of 2 February 2022. Madam Secretary, in that context I have the following questions. Are you sufficiently aware of the billions and not millions of increasing ageing costs? Will you already make a calculation or a recalculation in the context of the additional points of view, which I have just mentioned? It is important to calculate the impact in the short term, namely for 2024-2025. My last question is perhaps the most important one. What specific pension measures will you take yourself as part of your planned pension reform plan to reduce ageing costs? We won't be able to get rid of them. That's obvious. However, they can be controlled more or less. Madam Minister, I must say that up to now I have seen little or no initiative to reduce the cost of ageing. You always refer to the level of effectiveness, but yesterday we saw a mountain that gave birth to a mouse. I believe that you will not be able to rely too much on this and that other measures will have to be sought. I look forward to your solution to that problem, which will still be a problem to be dealt with for the future generation. I look forward to your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u4	Madam Secretary, you have presented the broad lines of your plans for pension reform to the government. It is indeed important that they are based on social and financial sustainability, social justice and more gender equality. You are striving for a positive reform. Of course, I agree with that. You want to encourage people to work, because in order to pay for that reform, you have to build up an employment rate of 80% in the long term. You also want to generalise the second pillar, and with its structural inclusion you want to go to social dialogue. It has already been said here: cooking costs money. What proposals from your reform plans will safeguard the affordability of pensions? Have you also taken into account the increasing cost of ageing? What reforms do you intend to undertake to ensure that the second pillar is further democratised? Do you have any concrete performances for that? Have you received any specific proposals from the social partners on this subject after the bilateral talks that have taken place? I have one final question, specifically about the doctors-specialists in training. In another committee there are proposals, drawn up by Mrs Muylle, Mr Bacquelaine, Mrs Creemers and myself, to give pension rights to medical specialists in training. They receive additional training in hospitals for 4 to 6 years. They've done a lot of hard work. I took the liberty of asking RIZIV for an estimate of the cost of giving them pension rights. Turns out it's about a little less than 54 million. I would ask you to take a look at that, too. I don't need an answer to that right now, but I'm taking the chance to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I share the concerns raised by my colleagues about the cost of aging, the financing of future pensions, or the disagreements that exist in majority voting. Weary workers deserve better than these questions. At the end of my career, I have questions that may seem redundant compared to those asked in the past. But I still think they're up to date. What about the state of progress, the implementation of your announced reform despite the dissension of your majority? Are we going to be entitled to a more precise timetable than the one for announcements? Do you plan to move forward on a measure-by-measure basis, which is quite an option? If so, on what priorities? What is the status of social dialogue? With which representative organisations? On what objective data will you also base yourself? I am thinking, for example, of the pension bonus. We know that it is a matter of reintroducing an deleted measure for lack of efficiency. Do you have new data? What about the impact of the options that would be on the table for women, which fight is dear to you? We all know that they find it more difficult to prepare for career requirements? Do you hope to manage to curb, to avoid a transfer of budget to long-term patients, despite the health crisis? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u6	Madam Minister, you have presented your pension reform project to the Council of Ministers quite recently. It is based on an important change: taking into account the number of years of work for access to pensions instead of age, which we believe is fairer. You also have a special focus on equality between men and women. There are other measures but, through questions with limited time, we will not be able to address all aspects. We would like to see the project presented. We could discuss the content at some length. My first point, the main point, is that of costs. It seems that even in the political world, this reform seems to scare some colleagues, and Mr. Van der Donckt expressed it. It speaks of a reform that costs billions, but with 2.5 million pensioners, the budget necessarily amounts to billions. Already today, we are not far from the 50 billion, and we must take into account ageing. In a growing global population, the labour force is also increasing. It's a set. Minister, may I ask you what is the financial viability of the situation in an attempt to reassure those who are not yet reassured? I'm sure you'll convince us. This is my second question. This subject must be addressed in the Council of Ministers. What is the planned timetable for coming to committee to present your government-approved reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u7	Mrs Lanjri also asked for the floor in this topical and urgent debate. I would remind you that you take your turn either during the questions or during the replies, but not both. Would you rather take your turn in questions, Ms. Lanjri? All right! We're listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u8	Madam Secretary, you have recently resubmitted your proposals for pension reform to the government. You emphasise the elimination of the gender pension gap, the difference in pensions between men and women. Your proposals also include measures to encourage people to work longer, including a bonus and a part-time pension. We support these measures, but for us the affordability of the whole is also essential. It is important to have a realistic plan for the financing of pensions in the long term. We have also put forward proposals ourselves and believe that a bonus system is a good slope. In doing so, people have a certain freedom, which is linked to a responsibility, to determine when they will retire. In this way, we can encourage people to work longer, but also ensure that more people work and stay, which is a good guarantee of sustainable funding. In addition, we must also work towards harmonising the various pension systems, including those of civil servants. We don't read much about that in your plans for the time being. We believe that special favour regimes should be examined, with a view to justice and sustainability. This is inextricably linked to the realization of a supplementary pension for everyone. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. How are you preparing for the pension reform? What timing do you foresee? Have there been any discussions or have the social partners given any advice? Have they been contacted yet? How will you involve them in this? What are the concrete measures for affordability? Are you also taking measures to further harmonise the different pension systems of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants? If so, how do you intend to do that? If no, why don't you want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, geachte collega's, I will answer in several parts, depending on the themes; since initially it was not a mini-debate but separate questions. I think it will also be clearer for everyone's understanding. As you know, my retirement plan was discussed by the nuclear cabinet on January 28th. This plan contains a proposal of method and a package of concrete measures currently under discussion at government level. Indeed, the uniform career condition of 42 years for access to early retirement is a key measure. I don't know if you're aware, but when a person started working at eighteen years of age, he can only retire early after forty-four years of career, while someone else who has had the chance to pursue university education – and I hope everyone will be able to get that chance, but unfortunately that's not the case – must only work forty-two years to enjoy the same rights. That doesn't seem fair to me. I don't know if that's your opinion, but it's totally unfair to me. That is why I propose to speak of years of single career, not of career age, in order to access the early pension from the age of sixty. You also know that those who started working earlier are also those who have not had the chance to take long studies, but also – and I will not teach you this either – whose life expectancy is less than that of the people who have started studies. Not only have these people started to work earlier, often in more difficult jobs, and have to work longer to access early retirement, but they are less likely to benefit from their retirement years because they live less – especially in good health. That shockes me a lot. That is why I want to redress this injustice and talk about forty-two years of career! By reducing the career condition for this group of people from 44 to 43 years to 42 years, we are taking an important step towards greater social justice in our pension systems. Is this enough? Of course not. I am well aware that a 42-year career is not always feasible for many people in the toughest professions and for many women. We note that the explosion in the number of people with disabilities, especially in the older age groups. Between 2005 and 2019, the number of disabled persons aged over 60 increased by more than 160 %. This shows that a linear increase in the retirement age does not automatically mean that people can suddenly work longer. The reality is that a lot of people can no longer work. If there are forty-two years of career, there is also a willingness to support employment. How? By positive incentives and, as you mentioned, Mr De Smedt, by reintroducing a pension bonus sterke so that the workers themselves choose to work later and longer and can arrange their career time with the part-time pension. We therefore want the forty-two years, but we also want to support the employment of older workers. The will here, therefore, is not always to tighten our minds and punish citizens by reducing career-end opportunities but by focusing on more social justice because pensions are not only a budgetary variable – I will come back – but above all a social right. It is in this context that I also call for special attention to be paid to the Beroepen zware within the framework of the government agreement. We are working with Pierre-Yves Dermagne to find concrete solutions. The social partners – they have been mentioned – must, in my view, have a crucial role to play in this issue of penitibility. They will also be invited to submit their proposal to the National Pension Committee. I also call for particular attention to be paid to women in my pension proposal, by putting on the table issues such as the revaluation of part-time work and the split-up of pensions. We will return to the splitting, since there is a mini-debate around this issue. Each measure shall be subject to the gender test. For me, the guiding principle is that the whole range of measures should not increase inequalities between men and women and should preferably reduce this gap. This is, by the way, literally in the coalition agreement. As Minister for Pensions, I will ensure that this principle is respected. Of course, for some, it will never be enough; but for others, my plan is written in red ink. This shows once again how much pension reform is an exercise that affects everyone, but which also polarizes a lot. My commitment, as Minister of Pensions, is to restore and reassure citizens' confidence in our pension system. Do not expect me to take part in the overbidding or alarmism that some of us in this Parliament are abusing. My ambition is very clear: to gradually restore confidence in the pension through concrete measures that promote social justice and make a real difference to real people by raising the minimum pension, by restoring part-time work, by lowering the retirement age for people who have started working early, by positive measures to keep people longer in work. This is an essential breach of style with the recent past and yes, I am proud of that. I'll go for that in full. I come to the financial sustainability. Of course, I have read the report of the Study Committee on Ageing, Mr Van der Donkt. I was present at its presentation in June 2021. This report shows that the number of older people in our society is increasing year after year. The number of 65-plussers will increase from nearly 2.3 million today, to 3 million in 2040 and to 3.4 million in 2070. The ageing of the population is a social success that we owe to social progress. The fact that an ageing population is a price is not a problem. It is a political choice to give pensioners and future pensioners certainty about their pension protection, at least if we are convinced that the statutory pension must allow people to have a good standard of living. That's what I want to do. Guaranteeing a decent pension is therefore a central objective of the government agreement. As I said, it is a political choice to guarantee pension protection for today's pensioners as well as those of tomorrow. Certainly, if we want the legal pension to guarantee a decent standard of living. It is also an objective of the government agreement. It is true that the estimates of the Study Committee depend on the assumptions of labour productivity. In the reference scenario, this productivity would gradually increase to 1.5 % per year. The report states: "The level of long-term productivity gains may seem high in the light of recent observations and it implies the continuation of measures to promote productivity." Well, let us shape the challenges as stated in the coalition agreement, through a substantial increase in investment, but also through more incentives in the field of science and innovation and other measures, so that we can work on that further increase in productivity. With our objective of increasing the employment rate to 80%, we want to be even more ambitious than the assumptions used by the Study Committee. Raising the employment rate is essential to ensure both sound public finances and good social protection. Moreover, many end-of-life measures have been taken in recent years to increase the average effective retirement age. The effect of this is visible. It is now necessary to use positive incentives to keep older workers working longer. This is essential to my proposed pension reform. Mrs De Block, as regards the second pillar of pensions, as provided for in the government agreement, we will ask the social partners, as part of the pension reform, to make concrete proposals with a view to generalising supplementary pensions. I aim to be able to start discussions within the National Pension Committee soon. Indeed, the second pillar needs to be mainstreamed with a minimum contribution of 3% of gross wages. I was talking about minimum pensions last month in this committee. It is logical that the parties have a strong opinion on pensions. This issue is therefore very important: 3 million Belgians will soon be retired, accounting for 60 billion euros of expenditure per year. It is clear that the liberal partners are focusing hard on a particular group, namely the job-seekers. I keep repeating: this is not the point of discussion. The pension experts in the Commission's report on Pension Reform 2020-2040 share my view on this issue. The principle of equal treatment in the case of unemployment or illness should not be affected. If society believes that there is improper use of social benefits, then this should be addressed at the source and not by punishing similar periods. Not I say that, but the experts of the committee. The caricature of the eternal 'dopper' and the hardworking self-employed is a form of politics that sets people against each other. It's not mine. I look at the facts and the facts are as follows. Belgium has 1,000 employees who have been looking for work for 30 years. It accounts for 0.02% of the active population. I propose that the regional services of Forem, Actiris and the VDAB accompany these people and offer them an appropriate job, but stop stigmatizing the 770,000 beneficiaries of a minimum pension. That does not make anyone any better, and that is not the policy I want to pursue. As stipulated in the coalition agreement, I carry out my work with micro- and macro-analysis and in consultation with all the parties involved. On the basis of objective data, a consensus will be found in all wisdom and knowledge. If other measures were introduced, they would not have any impact. At the moment, we are working very seriously with the Prime Minister and all the Deputy Prime Ministers, but I prefer to work in confidentiality and in time. It's too serious a subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u10	Madam Secretary, you've been working on your major pension reform ever since you took office. You solemnly promised to bring your plans for the major pension reform around this time before the committee. You can't blame me, but we're still hungry. Questions from the majority parties show that even they are not aware of your plans. In your reply, you outlined in particular the pension problems we all know and asked for particular attention to be paid to the heavy professions, but it remains awaiting concrete proposals and measures. I believe that the time for study is long past. The conclusions should have been drawn by now. By the way, we heard that your current plans were little more than a supplement to your September plan. That was shot hard, even by your majority parties. It wouldn't have been any different a few months later. We're still hungry. You know that our pensions are far too low, Belgium scores very weak in Europe. It will also continue to look at your concrete measures. You rightly refer to the pension of persons with a heavy occupation. Everyone knows that a person who has worked in a crooked way cannot possibly continue to work until the age of 67. You are still in the consultation phase in this dossier. There is also little movement with regard to the alignment of the statutes. Madam Secretary, finally work on your promised pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u11	Madam Minister, it is not because it is never enough for us to say anything, but because we are concerned about people, about their health, about the right to rest because of a similar analysis. We take this seriously. If we think that certain measures are not quite right to deal with the problems, we say so too. You said that the average age in Belgium is rising, but the age in good health is not rising. It's been at the same height for years. For certain professions, such as cleaning women, it has even failed. You're talking about a milestone in your retirement plan, 60 years of retirement with 42 years of service. That is good, but the relaxation of early retirement only accounts for 3% of future pensioners. They will be able to retire early in 60 years. For everything else, early retirement is only possible from 63 years of age, with 42 years of service. Women with atypical careers who have worked less than 42 years of age will therefore be allowed to work a little longer. A woman's average career is currently 36.5 years. This means that 50% of the women who are retired have a career of less than 35 years. That is far from the 42 years spoken of. You announce a year of wife and retirement. I hope that you will have more in store than the pension split and also look at adjustments to the career conditions that benefit women. The PVDA is still not convinced of this pension plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u12	About the cost of ageing and affordability, you say it is a political choice. That is, of course, true. You also do not say in detail what your choice will be. You seem to be letting it happen, just like Mr De Grauwe, who says it will resolve itself. I hope you don't walk that piste. On the other hand, you refer to the 80% efficacy level. It is good that you repeat that, because it is very important. You will also make a positive effort to keep people working longer if they can. We have some ideas about this and have just given a press conference on it. You can agree to that or not. You should not agree to everything, but there are a number of ideas in it. We also have ideas for the long-term sick. After all, not everyone is 100% long-term sick. It's always white-black, either someone's sick, or he's not sick. That's a weird system. A lot of these people can work part-time too. That is not only good for themselves and for their well-being, they also contribute to social security. These are positive signals, but of course there is still nothing concrete on the table. The only thing that is on the table and with which you come forward every time are measures that go against what you have said today. Today you say that you want to get the rate of effectiveness up to 80%, that you want to get long-term sick back to work and that people need to work longer. However, all you have on the table is 10 years of working for a minimum pension. That's not exactly encouraging to work for long. In addition, the early stopping after 42 years also encourages people to quit early. I'm not saying people have to work for up to 70 years. We also have an alternative, which I will bring forward in due course. We're not inhumane, either. Otherwise, they will indeed fall into sickness. We need to think about that. However, I still do not see any concrete measures in your three-pronged major reform aimed at ensuring the affordability of the costs of ageing. Anyway, who knows, maybe next month or in two months. We'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u13	Madam Minister, if you are still fine-tuning at government level, I understand that you are not going to take the flight forward here. I have only one comment. I heard you say that anyone who started working at the age of 18 has worked 42 years at the age of 60. There are plenty of examples of other countries where this is taken into account in a different way. One then looks at life expectancy. Then one looks at the heavy and the lighter professions. It's a hornet's nest. Everyone in the previous legislature felt that he or she had a hard profession. For politicians only, everyone agrees that it is not a difficult profession. I have remembered this, everyone has arguments, but we cannot deny that because of the gravity of their profession people have a lower quality of life or life expectancy. This has also been implemented in other pension systems. I made a proposal about 20 years ago to include it. So there are ways of responding to both opinions. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u14	Minister, thank you for your response. I am pleased to hear you talk about penitibility and funding because these are my two major concerns in the reform. For the rest, I intend you, above all, to put your lines or your defences on behalf of your partners, which is legitimate. But we still remain on our hunger for deadlines and landing prospects. I think we can say that we understand what you want, but we don't yet know what the government wants. When we find out, we'll be happy to make the comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u15	Madam President, we all have our own angle of view. That is also the point of this topical and urgent debate. Minister, this mini-debate allows you to outline your reform proposal as presented, but also to give us some key figures that will enable us to understand the reality of our pension system and to plan for the future. You are right to make the connection with the financing of social security, the essential aspect of the employment rate and the work that is done to increase it, and the pension bonus. It was indeed necessary to revisit this aspect. I would like to dwell for a moment on raising the age of legal retirement to 66-67 years, which was approved, after lengthy debates, under the previous legislature, without the problem of difficult jobs being settled. This is a case that needs to be addressed. You're right to say that disability increases after 60 years. These are relevant figures, and I dare not imagine what disability would be after 65 years. To conclude my speech, I would like to wish you good work and courage in continuing the negotiations on this reform of pensions, of which we would all be happy, whatever our point of view, to debate in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that you are negotiating further within the government in order to achieve a pension reform. I just want to repeat our principles. For us, they are clear, namely working must pay, but setbacks must not be punished in the building up of pensions. That is why we also agree to a strong pension bonus. We also believe that people who take on care tasks, who are ill, who are victims of restructuring, should not be punished with less pension. The same applies to healthy life expectancy and the 42-year career, which takes care of this in the first instance. I always hear doubts here about the affordability of pensions. Meanwhile, one youngster out of six doesn't believe he'll ever have a good legal pension again. It is important that the pension reform restores confidence so that people know that they are building a pension, entitled to a dignified old age and a dignified legal pension. That is indeed a choice, and I agree with you on that. Prosperity is always increasing. The question is not about affordability, the question is what percentage of our prosperity we want to spend to ensure a dignified old age for people. Other European countries already spend a higher percentage on pensions than Belgium. It is important to clarify this matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u17	The problem is well known: on average, women receive a third less pension than men. This is due to the fact that they can grow less in the company, more often than men opt for the family and the children by working part-time or having less challenging jobs, jobs that are less eligible for promotion: Last week you announced in the newspaper that you want to address the pension gap in the light of a thematic year around women and pensions. As a possibility you saw the pension split, of which you asked the Ageing Committee to update its impact on pension income. On this basis, you would like to submit proposals to the National Pension Committee. I myself also tabled a legislative proposal on an automatic split for supplementary pensions after divorce or cessation of legal cohabitation. The National Labour Council (NAR) issued an interim opinion on this subject on 14 July 2020 with a series of questions on its practical roll-out. He said he'd clear that up thoroughly through hearings with experts. But the corona crisis caused a lot of work on the shelf. I am curious about his findings and how far he stands with his work. Can you explain your assignment to the Ageing Committee to update the study on the impact of pension split on pension income? Have you asked other institutions, bodies, organisations for advice or research? The NAR would clear things up with experts. Have you asked for an update on this? Did you get any feedback on the matter? Was your administration involved in this, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u18	Madam Secretary, my question has a slightly different perspective. Pensions are a complex issue, with all kinds of interfaces. For example, Article 2.13.19 of the new matrimonial property law explicitly states that accrued pension rights are own. You have undoubtedly taken note of this. You can easily consult the website of the Federal Pension Service for the current arrangements for obtaining a pension as from the divorced spouse, or as a de facto divorced marriage partner. In your view, in the light of the new matrimonial property law, are changes needed to the matrimonial property law in order to implement your pension split plans? If so, what are these changes? What changes do you think should be made to the current pension rules in the event of divorce and divorce, for which I refer to the website I have just mentioned? What timing do you have in mind to get the file on the pension split? I suppose that will not be before March, because then you expect the studies. So it's probably a little later. Maybe you can give us a timing after all?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u19	Madam Minister, I have tabled a concrete legislative proposal on pension splits, whereby not only the statutory pension but also the supplementary pension of the two partners is automatically added up and shared for the duration of the cohabitation or marriage, unless they refuse to do so. The pension split therefore applies not only when a couple divorces, but also when it stays together, because joint choices such as the choice that a partner, usually the woman, works less, should also, in our opinion, produce a common outcome, namely an equal pension. In addition, our proposal can also be incorporated into the system if one is not married. You indicated earlier that you were not unneged by my proposal. I think that's a good thing. In the meantime, I have read that the other majority parties are certainly prepared to introduce the pension split. There are still some differences, but I do not think they are insurmountable. You also indicated that you want to modernise the family dimension of pensions and that you want to reduce the pension gap between men and women, which is one third today, over 30%. In the coalition agreement we included the principle of the pension split and announced a study in this area. What's the progress on the pension split investigation? What are the next steps? When are we gonna get the results of that investigation? Do you consider it possible to achieve the pension split in the shorter term, on the basis of the legislative proposals submitted by various political groups in the Chamber? Perhaps all these can be submitted to the social partners and we can come to a decision in the short term. Then we won't have to wait years for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u20	Madam Minister, like you, I believe that one of the central objectives of pension reform must be gender equality. It is now known that men have a much higher average pension than women because of their differences in benefits, particularly in the labour market. Indeed, as men have a more comprehensive career and on average better paid than women, they create better pension rights to which higher pension amounts are linked. In the face of this problem, you announced a few months ago the study of the principle of splitting, which consists of dividing the total income of spouses accumulated during the years of common life into two equal shares and assigning a share to each of them. Recently, in an interview with the newspaper Le Soir, Minister Clarinval affirmed the existence of an agreement on the implementation of this system, both for employees and for the self-employed. Minister, could you tell us more about how you are planning to implement this system as part of this pension reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u21	Madam Minister, there seems to be a consensus among the majority parties to implement the pension split. They would only be compulsory for future married couples and cohabitants would be given the opportunity to enter the system freely. The amount of the pension, also saved in the second and third pillars, would be distributed equally between the partners for the duration of the marriage. What influence will the amount of pension payable have on the death of one of the partners? How do you see the calculation of persons who have been married several times? How do you see the calculation method if partners do not retire at the same time? What will you do with the taxation of the second and third pillars, as they are only paid at the age of 65 and are based on one person? If the partner has died in the meantime, will part of it not be paid out and will the government then collect that money? How much will the government save on the IGO on an annual basis with this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u22	I read in the press that there was a consensus within Vivaldi on the so-called pension split. I was surprised, because the Vivaldi partners' reactions to your pension reform plans didn't sound very enthusiastic. An updated study on the impact of the pension split would be launched by March. Can you tell us more about this, for example about the question of which pension split? Several government parties have submitted a legislative proposal on this subject. The pension split is a way of improving women's pensions, but there are others as well. In this way, we can adapt the career condition so that more people with atypical careers can still receive a full pension. Or we can look at the causes of the fact that women are still taking on more care tasks, for example looking at the options. How does the pension split to the family pension? Is this supposed to wear off over time? The President: Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[(Non]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see the importance you all attach to more equal pension rights for all. That's very important to me, too. That is why I commissioned the update of the annex to the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 to modernise the family dimension. This is currently being done by the original authors. They will soon present the results on a study before noon, in particular on Monday 7 March. This morning's study will mark the start of a year of work on the theme "gender and pension" during which we will look at the protection of women's pensions but also more broadly on women's atypical employment contracts. The PensionStat.be website also provides a specific monitor on the gender dimension. It's already been worked hard. Such monitoring will monitor and make known the well-known causes and consequences of the gender pension gap. A microanalysis of derived rights will also be carried out. It is essential if we are to have a discussion on modernising the family dimension. It will allow us to know who are the beneficiaries of these derived rights, the importance of these rights in relation to own rights and the evolution of derived rights. These data are all being collected. I would point out that the derived rights, within the framework of the family dimension, are the household rate, the survivor's pension, the individualisation of rights, etc. The pension split is an excellent means of creating more pension equality and increasing solidarity within couples. However, it is also an extremely complex matter. The NAR has not yet completed its work on the pension split. It is still too early to answer specific questions, such as those on matrimonial property law, but we are certainly taking account of a legislative amendment. If an adjustment is needed, we will argue in favour of it. I am very much in favour of the pension split and I would like to take further steps in this regard. However, we must not go into this lightly, and we cannot do that quickly. We cannot be expected to divide a good pension into two low pensions. Appropriate accompanying measures are necessary. I will always defend good pension protection even for those who have not been able to achieve a full full-time career. You know that my goal is to upgrade part-time work to the minimum pension. The increase in the minimum pension and the division in the event of divorce will contribute to this equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u24	Madam Minister, at least I am looking forward to Monday 7 March and the results of the study. My bill is limited to supplementary pensions. The pension split is one way to reduce the pension gap, of course there are other means. My proposal is also without prejudice to other measures, such as a greater appreciation of part-time work, the periods treated as such for people taking on care tasks or the use of jobs that are compatible with the family. It is important that the pension split does not lead to further impoverishment. We aim for higher pensions and higher minimum pensions. With a full pension split, we must ensure that people do not fall under a certain income line. The NAR has not yet completed its work. I ask you to insist that they be completed. There have been hearings, and I would regret it if that expertise were lost, and I would like to include it in the work. We may be able to bring up a number of experts on this subject in this committee. The pension split and the family dimension are important elements on which we can look further in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the N-VA supports the principle of pension split. We are aware that it is not a simple matter and we must be careful that there are no abuses. It all seems simple, but it's not. It is a good thing that you take the time to give a thorough opinion so that the situation will not get worse than it is today. I agree with the proposal to organise hearings on this issue. I look forward to your further initiatives in this area with the necessary distrust.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You probably know that we have already tabled a legislative proposal on the pension split in the previous legislature. I am glad that there are other proposals on the table in the meantime. There are, however, some differences. For example, the sp.a proposal is only about the second pillar, while ours is about both the first and the second pillar. I am sure that with the advice we will get and with the proposals we can put together to see where we can also countries will actually land. I hope this won't take too long. I may be impatient, but that has to do with the fact that our proposal was already tabled during the previous legislature and I think it is absolutely necessary to find a solution for these groups without going to the poverty of couples. Madam Minister, the money we put into the divorce pension today can also be used to raise pensions in the event of a pension split that could possibly be paid on a lower pension. There are certainly techniques to ensure a proper arrangement. I want to contribute to this, as do my colleagues in this committee. Let's get this over with. I hope that we can have the debate very soon in this committee and in the meantime we are waiting impatiently for the opinions of, among other things, the NAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I look forward to seeing the results of this day, which will take place on 7 March. I know you are aware of the measures taken to try to reduce the gap between pensions and to improve part-time work. It must be noted that it is often women who are forced to make professional choices by opting for a half-time in order to keep their children, which often has an impact on the evolution of their careers. This is why it is often not complete, and in doing so, their pension is less. When the couple goes well, it's not a problem. But when this is not the case, it is often the woman who finds herself with a smaller pension, and therefore with less means. In any case, I know you are attentive to the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u28	Madam Minister, the pension split may indeed seem a simple idea, but in practice it is almost impossible to calculate it. The pension split is an excuse because pensions for some people are far too low, especially for those who have exercised a less well-paid profession or worked part-time. The public authorities will also be able to save money, as some of the IGAs will no longer have to be paid out. For us, the pension split is a disguised saving, which will bring about a leveling of the pension. Why, for example, is the extremely favourable arrangement of officials not simply taken over? That is priceless, certainly, but the people involved will be pleased with it. The ultimate goal should be equal pension rights for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u29	Madam Secretary, you are facing quite a challenge. I see that you want to pay attention to the situation of women in retirement. Of course, the numbers don't lie. You know them better than I do. The pay gap is 23.1 %, the pension gap is 33.4 %. Of the 1.1 million people working part-time, 77% are women. Why is that? That is the question we must ask. The challenge is very great. In particular, we are wondering whether this split in pensions is sufficient. I don't think so. You have put a very nice quote in your policy paper: "Pension policy and labour market policy are two sides of the same coin." This is quite a challenge. I look not only at your area, but also at labour market policy, we really do need efforts. We need efforts to raise minimum wages. This Vivaldi government is moving forward, but we are certainly not where we need to be. Paternity leave needs to be improved in order to involve fathers more in the education of children. We must normalise the fact that they also choose to help the family more. I understand that you will take part-time work into account in the calculation. My next question is how exactly that will work. If we look at pensions in general, I believe that we can also look at career conditions and calculate what a downward adjustment would mean for the pension rights of future retired women. It's just a suggestion, but I think you're facing quite a challenge. We are in hopeful expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 55023874C by Mrs Fonck has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u31	Madam Minister, figures that we could get from you earlier show that the number of installation premiums for homeless people is falling sharply. Between 2017 and 2020, this decreased from around 13,300 to 9,800. That seems strange, because the number of homeless and people who need to resort to winter care is just rising. The proportion of French-speaking Belgium in this group does rise from 50% to 55%. How do you explain the declining trend in the number of installation premiums paid? To what extent do you have an insight into the effectiveness of the installation premiums? In other words, do you know how many people are effectively helped in this way and do not return to the old state after a short time? Will you intensify the measure to reduce the rising number of homeless people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u32	Mrs. Samyn, homeless people get an installation fee when they've found a place. The fact that less premiums have been paid is because these people find it hard to find a home. I understand that you are concerned about the decline, but the real problem is the shortage of affordable housing and social housing, especially in Flanders. A home is a first step in allowing homeless people to regain their place in society. That is why, within my limited powers in the area of housing, I have allocated EUR 2.5 million to expand the housing first routes in Belgium. The government will also invest 10 million in housing for housing first projects. As far as your question on effectiveness is concerned, my administration does not have any figures on the number of people who received a premium and who later became homeless again. It is the task of the OCMWs to help the people knocking on their door, not to judge their past or the setbacks they have experienced. The installation premium is one of the instruments available to the OMCWs. Something else is the full subsidy for two years of the living wage paid to persons who are no longer homeless, as referred to in Article 14 (3), 1°. With this combination of measures, the OMCWs can provide additional support to these very vulnerable persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive and thorough answer. It is still not very clear, we still know whether this measure is achieving its objective. That's too bad. A study could be carried out to study the effectiveness of the installation premium. Should it prove necessary to extend this measure, if its results are positive, we are of course in favour of it. However, should the installation premium prove to be out of date, other measures should be taken to address the problem of the homeless. The homeless form a very large group, live largely under the radar and are much less visible than the homeless. That does not prevent us from forgetting that group too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u34	"The GRAPA covers more than 100,000 people in Belgium, of whom 65% are women and 35% are self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u35	•Can you provide a timetable for this reform?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u36	Minister, the subject of GRAPA is again on the table. We cannot imagine the number of hours devoted to this debate in Parliament during the previous parliamentary term, both in the Social Affairs Committee and in the plenary and also in the Committee on Public Enterprises (ex-Infrastructure). The government agreement provides for the review of the control system, i.e. the residence requirement. It must be said that some corrections have been made in practice, but this work has yet to be completed. A study by the Federal Institute for Human Rights (IFDH) and the Anti-Poverty Service, published last November, found that there was a difference in treatment between the beneficiaries of GRAPA (minimum pension) and other social beneficiaries (or even non-contributory allowances). On the other hand, they carried out a benchmarking study with other European countries. It appears that, of the 18 countries in the European Economic Area (including Switzerland), Belgium is the most restrictive country in terms of the residence rights allowed abroad for these recipients of non-contributory social benefits - the equivalent of the Belgian GRAPA. For example, several neighbouring countries grant three months of stay: the Netherlands, Spain, Hungary, Sweden and Switzerland; while others like France, Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Iceland grant six months for the same residents. Belgium is firmly behind the European peloton, unfortunately, with its 29 days of authorised stay abroad. I would add a question to my statement but I do not ask for an immediate answer and, if necessary, I will file a written question. Does your administration have any other figures or figures on this comparison with other European countries? It would be interesting to receive them in order to compare existing studies. If these numbers exist, could you share them? In view of the difference in treatment, if only within Belgium with these 29 days of stay in order to fulfil this condition of residence, do you intend to revise this condition in order to guarantee the same rights to all elderly people receiving social benefits? I hope that, in the forthcoming reform, a comparison with the European countries will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u37	Madam Minister, Mr Delizée has already provided a very detailed explanation. That is why I am referring to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u38	Madam Minister, in April 2021, you announced that you would reform the IGO regulation in a number of respects, both as regards the conditions and the control procedure. We are now ten months later, but the legislation has been virtually unchanged. In recent months, I have also repeatedly asked you to increase the number of days on which IGA beneficiaries can stay abroad. In Belgium we are talking about 29 days, as my colleagues have already mentioned, but that will be 90 days, just like the number of days for IVT beneficiaries. Recent research by the French-speaking human rights League, in which Belgium was compared with Spain, Sweden, France, the Netherlands and Switzerland, shows that Belgium scores very badly. The average number of days of foreign residence is at least three months in those European countries and six months in some countries, as Mr Delizée said. Madam Secretary, will you increase the number of days of lawful foreign residence from 29 days to 90 days? When will you finally reform the IGA conditions and the control procedure? What's your own deadline? Will that happen again in this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u39	Colleagues, I think I'm going to disappoint you somewhat because my answer will be much shorter than your questions. The checks have not resumed since their suspension on 1 March 2020. No more checks were carried out on the factors or on my administration. The reform of control to make it more proportional is on the table of the government. To avoid further complicating this complex issue, which, as Mr Delizée said, has been the subject of very long discussions, I will not go into the details today. I just want to tell you that I would actually like to close this case just before the Carnival leave or right after.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u40	Minister, what to reply if it is only large and broad is the government table! Let's hope it doesn't overflow!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am satisfied at this stage. So we're going to wait, but it's going to be faster than pension reform. If there are benchmarking statistics, I'd be interested in receiving them. But since I didn't ask them at first, I am ready to put a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u42	Madam Minister, that is a short and concise answer, for which I understand. My position on the control procedure is not unknown to you: I think that an elephant is being hit with a mosquito. You have already taken a number of steps in a first phase to make the control procedure more humane, but I would also like to call for benchmarking. Perhaps it is also good to look at other European countries. Those who are in favour of such an arrangement often assume major abuses. Figures show that abuse is very limited. Is this the case in other European countries? People who live on an IGO do not use it to make a big world trip - for which the income is too low - but to visit children abroad for a longer period.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u43	Madam Secretary, I am in hopeful expectation. We'll probably read the results in the press during the crocus vacation. What is the reality, Madam Secretary? In our country there are 110,000 elderly people living with an IGO. They therefore continue to be subject to double discrimination. If you have a full pension, you can travel as much as you want. IGO beneficiaries are only allowed to travel for 29 days. Looks like they're the big criminals in our country. But they already have to make ends meet with a minimum income. Do you really think they can travel so much and spend so much time abroad with that money? I certainly don't think so, Madam Secretary. So put that discrimination aside and raise the number of days very quickly to at least 90 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u44	Madam President, Minister, at the last budget conclave, you announced that it was totally unfair for people with disabilities who are working to give up part of their integration allowance. A budget of EUR 29 million has therefore been allocated to abolish the labour price. In principle, from 1 October 2021 onwards, the integration allowance would no longer be reduced as long as the professional income of the disabled person is less than 63 000 euros gross. In other words, people with disabilities will now be able to earn up to 63 000 euros a year, compared to 23 000 before losing their allowance. This is an excellent measure, to which our group adheres. However, it must be noted that this decision has not yet been implemented, even though all the visionaries are in the green. I recall that the opinion of the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) criticizes, like many of us, the ridiculously low amount of the symbolic allowance supplement for the person who has had a work journey but who, at the time of the calculation of his entitlement, falls under a social benefit scheme. Minister, has the draft royal decree to increase the ceiling to €63,000 already been presented to the government? When do you envisage a publication of the said decree at the Moniteur belge? How will you organize the retroactivity of the measure on October 1, 2021? Finally, in case of cumulation in the head of the disabled person of the "price of work" and the famous "price of love", how will the situation be treated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u45	Madam Secretary, it's very simple. You may translate the question that Mr De Smet has just asked into Dutch and then you have my question. I won't repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u46	Thank you, Mrs Van Peel, but I am told that there is a problem in the recording of questions. The QOMV system no longer works at this time and we cannot refer to our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u47	Madam President, I should not even refer to it. In fact, the questions that my colleague has just asked are the same as mine. I'll say it very briefly. I also wonder when the RB will come and how it will be allowed to proceed retroactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the preparation of this dossier was lengthy, in particular in terms of estimating the impact according to the ceilings which can be retained, within the framework of the available budget. Concerning the publication of the royal decree, the file was sent for signature to the King. Its publication in the Belgian Monitor is therefore a matter of days, but I have not yet received the King's signature. As I said earlier, the measure will apply immediately when published in the Belgian Official Journal, with retroactive effect until 1 October 2021. A letter has already been sent to DG HAN explaining the measure so that everyone is treated equally. With regard to retroactivity, files of persons already entitled to an integration allowance (AI) reduced as a result of the current ceiling will be automatically reviewed. Thus, upon receipt of the FPS Finance revenue data, the calculation will be made on October 1, 2021, since it is retroactive from that date, using the new exemptions. Only those who have received a negative decision in the past or who have never made a move to benefit from this allowance will have to make a request, a positive action to DG HAN. I mean, I want to reassure you. The "price of love" measure and the "price of work" measure can be combined and combined. In line with my commitment to make our country more inclusive, a person with a disability can now benefit from the integration allowance without taking into account the income of his or her spouse – this is a first step towards the individualisation of the rights so much demanded by everyone – and his or her professional income up to a ceiling of 63 000 euros. These are two significant advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I was afraid for a moment that you would tell me that the draft royal decree was on the government table. I am reassured that he is not adding to the pile and that he has gone beyond this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u50	Madam Minister, perhaps you should take care in future that the time between the entry into force and the communication of the measure is a little shorter. That would be a bit more fun for our mailbox, because there are a lot of people who have been waiting a long time for the proposed measure. I'm glad things are going to be okay now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u51	Madam President, Minister, it has just been mentioned in the topical debate that you are considering the re-establishment of a pension bonus in your pension reform plans. In concrete terms, nothing has yet been decided, but in the coalition agreement we read the following, and I quote: 'We introduce a pension bonus, so that people who work longer also build up more pension rights. From the moment one meets the conditions for the early retirement, one starts to build up the pension bonus. The scheme is introduced for self-employed persons, employees and civil servants. In this way, we strengthen legal pensions and encourage people to work longer." Nothing concrete has yet been realized, but I know that you already have some things in mind. Can you provide more information on the precise modalities? Who will be entitled to a pension bonus? How much will that be? How long can it be built up? By how much euro will the pension amount increase? You see the activating effect of the pension bonus as an important pillar for the "budget neutrality" of your entire pension reform plan. So I assume you have done a thorough study and carried out scientific analyses on the budgetary effects. Are they still in progress, or can you give us any figures yet? What impact will that have on career life? Several studies indicate that the pension bonus is a measure that is anything but effective to improve the financial sustainability of our pension system. In the past, our country has already had a pension bonus. You will no doubt have read the conclusions of the 2012 Supreme Court of Finance, which state that the effect of such a bonus on a longer career is rather small. With the word bonus, I immediately think of malus, the opposite. Do you think it would be a good idea to move towards a pension system with a large individual retirement age freedom, but in combination with a significant bonus malus?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u52	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the reform package that I have just presented to the heart of the matter provides for a pension bonus. That was also stated in the coalition agreement. The bonus I propose is a fixed amount granted per day worked. The institution starts from the day on which the person concerned can retire early. In this way, we encourage people to continue their careers. I want to give positive support to the workers to extend their careers. This proposal is now being discussed within the government. We will take into account the behavioural effects that the Planning Bureau will further analyse. The evaluations of the former bonus system were certainly not only negative, as you seem to suggest. You refer to an opinion of the 2012 Ageing Commission. On the other hand, in the same year, the High Council for Employment declared itself in favour of a pension bonus. In doing so, the Supreme Court recommended meeting some of the pain points of the former bonus. Let me make two points. Firstly, unlike the former system, the new bonus will not be linked to an age, but to the career. In this way, we guarantee that the bonus can actually have effect and avoid out-of-chance effects. Secondly, as the Supreme Court recommended, we will now be able to sensitise the workers much more thanks to Mypension. Unlike in the past, employees will in advance be able to form a clear picture of the effect of longer working on their pensions. The Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040 has also supported a bonus system that grants additional rights for career years after the earliest retirement date. The bonus is a positive measure, designed to reward longer working hours. This is very different with a malus system that only takes age into account and does not look at the length of the career. Such a system discriminates against workers who started their careers early. It is precisely my intention to ban such injustices from our system, not to introduce new ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u53	Madam Secretary, your answer was somewhat in line with expectations. I look forward to the studies. Do you have any idea when the study will come from the Federal Planning Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u54	We asked him now. There is already a review of our administration and the Plan Office is now dealing with feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u55	I'm looking forward to that study and we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u56	Madam Minister, part-time pensions are also mentioned in your pension reform plans. Nothing concrete has yet been decided in this area either. There is also a passage about it in the coalition agreement. So you're living up to your coalition agreement. Let me quote for the report: 'In order to increase the effective career life of workers, measures will be taken on end-of-life arrangements. This can be achieved, among other things, through the part-time pension." The above-mentioned part-time pension will fulfil the following conditions. This is an additional scheme for the end of the career, which will not replace the other existing schemes. The part-time pension will be accessible to all employed workers, self-employed persons and civil servants who fulfil the conditions of the early retirement pension. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. Firstly, can you give us more information on the precise modalities? How much can work performance be reduced? Will any worker who fulfils the conditions for early retirement be able to be effectively eligible for this? Secondly, will the part-time pension go hand in hand with certain financial incentives to counter a counter-effect, in particular some of the workers who would continue to work full-time without that option, but now choose to work less? Thirdly, have you done a thorough study and carried out a thorough scientific analysis of the intention, including the budgetary impact? If so, can you give me the figures if necessary? If this has not yet been done, when can we expect the studies? Finally, will a pension bonus be built up at the same time as a part-time pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u57	Mr Van der Donkt, supporting a career, and in particular the end of a career, is important. We expect an increased level of employment and we want to make every effort to do so. In order to achieve this, we have an appropriate policy. The policy I propose is supportive and positive. It is also provided for in the government agreement, which states that the adaptation of the end-of-life scheme can be achieved, inter alia, through the part-time pension, soft runways, career training and reorientation, and by promoting a transfer of knowledge between generations of workers. My proposal for reform includes part-time pensions. As has already been said, my proposal fits into the coalition agreement and strikes a balance. The part-time pension will be available in one fifth or in half-time form. That is a reduction of 20% or 50%. It will be available to anyone who fulfils the conditions for early retirement. There is always a potential for this type of measure, better known in French as effet d'aubaine. This effect was taken into account in the budgetary estimates. The Federal Planning Bureau is working on more specific behavioural effects, including the effects of the bonus. This is not an obvious matter, but it is being prepared with due attention. I think it is important that a bonus is also built up for the days of employment, and not for the days of retirement, of course. We really need to do everything we can to convince the workers not to retire early if they can continue to work. I am doing this positively by increasing their pension income, but also by making it possible for them to work a little less. I remain convinced that a policy that punishes people is not a policy that convinces them. That is why this positive pension reform is central to the current and future pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u58	You know that our party also supports the principle of part-time pensions. We are, of course, curious about its practical implementation. Perhaps we will differ on that point, but I look forward to the concreteisation of this passage from the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u59	Minister, in the face of the crisis, you have taken a series of measures to support our most vulnerable citizens. Whether they are students, workers, job seekers or seniors, all have been able to benefit from assistance to cope with the financial difficulties caused by the health crisis. In addition to this financial support, you have also paid attention to the social isolation of the most vulnerable. As a result, you have provided a grant of €10 million for psychological assistance, allocated to CPAS for the implementation of projects and measures in the field of well-being. What is your assessment today of this subsidy aimed at combating the psychological suffering of CPAS users? Could this measure, which was extended until March 2022, be continued beyond the crisis of the covid-19, in a more structural form?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u60	Madam Minister, following my question on socio-cultural participation (SOCUPA) and its application, I have received a number of figures. The figures on the application of the grant received by the OMCWs show two things. First, the grant is well used, and in many OCMW's, the amount spent is higher than the grant they get from the federal government. In 2020, 44% of OMCWs themselves contributed EUR 1.9 million. The other OMCWs either received the subsidy or did not make full use of it and thus have a surplus. There is therefore an inefficiency in the allocation of funds, or there is a lack of commitment to that grant with certain OMCWs. In total, there is an under-utilisation of the total amount granted by the government to the OMCWs. This was relatively high in 2020, but it can also be explained by the corona crisis. A surplus is logical when no activities are organised. However, there was always a surplus in previous years. A second observation is that a large part of the OCMWs do not organise collective modules. In 2020 323 of the 580 OCMWs did not organise collective modules. This may also be partly due to the corona crisis, but not entirely. It concerns especially the small OCMW's, because I myself am the chairman of a small OCMW's organisation of the modules is time-intensive and also requires staff deployment which is often simply lacking. The study published in 2021 shows that the allowance is mainly used by OCMWs to combat child poverty. That is a good thing. They come in the payout of the school bills. These are interventions that are often crucial for parents and children. For example, there is also intervention in the cost of school meals. Judgings suggest that one in four kids is starving on the school couch. In your policy notes, you indicated that you would reform this allowance. What is your response to these figures and to the study? How do you see the reform of this instrument? Do you want to avoid underutilisation of the SOCUPA budget? How will you encourage OMCWs to effectively spend their SOCUPA grants and develop a vision and policy on this? What are your plans for the collective modules? Are you still planning to include a psychological component as announced in one of the policy papers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u61	Colleagues, the resources released during the crisis convinced me of the need for a lasting psychological aid scheme for the public of CPAS. During my visits and meetings, I was able to see that CPAS seriously engaged in this area, alone or with other CPAS in the same region, were able to achieve very good results. Good mental health is the basis for successful socio-professional integration. In addition to the need to ensure the accessibility of mental health care and to combat the shortage of professionals – the objectives pursued by my colleague Vandenbroucke, who spoke about it again this week – I instructed my administration to provide an alternative when the subsidy covid-19 ends on March 31, 2022. Thus, the Social Participation & Activation scheme – the PAS scheme, an annual subsidy granted to all CPAS – can be extended to psychological assistance for those over 18 years of age. Currently, this is limited to the psychological support of children. I would also like to provide them with additional resources to enable the CPAS to meet the demands in this area and/or to continue the psychological care initiated in the context of the covid-19 crisis. Mrs Reynaert, the subsidy participation and social activation offers the OMCWs a wide range of opportunities to meet the needs of socio-cultural participation. The pillar chosen belongs to local autonomy and depends on the reality of the municipalities concerned. The available funds are distributed among the OMCWs on the basis of the usual distribution key for almost all subsidies for OMCWs: 75% on the basis of the number of beneficiaries and 25% on the basis of the number of people eligible for increased benefits. My cabinet will consider whether this key is still the most appropriate instrument for measuring the degree of poverty in a particular city or municipality and the workload of the OCMW.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, what you have just announced is good news. Indeed, you plan to offer an alternative to this post-covid-19 and this system, which would end at the end of March next year, to relax this PAS device and extend this psychological assistance to those over the age of 18. I was already aware of the fact that you came to my territory yesterday and the CPAS asked us about it. Thank you for the help you have provided and for what you do on a daily basis to support the CPAS in what they have experienced and what they will live in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u63	Madam Minister, it is a little unfortunate to note that some OCMWs are not making full use of the SOCUPA grant and others are, and even are, making amends. It would be good to take a look at that key, perhaps a reward could be given to OCMWs who are making full use of the grant, otherwise those funds will remain and that would be a pity. I have explained to you why it is difficult for some OCMWs to work with the collective modules. Sometimes it's hard to organize that. That is why we are in favour of keeping the bulkheads between Module A, B and C closed, so that each OCMW can choose which module it grants it. We are mainly committed to combating child poverty. We are trying to achieve the skills that need to be achieved through the collective modules in a different way. We work through another project. We try to achieve the objectives of module B in a different way, because then we can spend the federal government grant on the other modules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u64	Madam Chair, Minister, the states that have ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are assessed every four years by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Belgium's second assessment started in 2019. Within the framework of the Convention, the State submits a report explaining what it has put in place to respect the fundamental rights protected by the Convention. An independent mechanism ensured, in the case of Belgium by Unia, provides a parallel report which allows to qualify or supplement the State's report. So that's what Unia did on December 3, 2021. In its report, Unia makes several observations, including the lack of accessibility of disabled persons to public buildings, spaces and transport, as well as to the media and websites, the absence of a crisis management plan that takes account of disabled persons, the wide allocation of resources to finance the specific needs of pupils with disabilities in favour of special education, so that parents often do not have the choice of education for their child, but also the lack of resources to support employment in the ordinary environment, unlike public funding, which is still mainly directed towards employment in adapted work enterprises, etc. Minister, do you agree with Unia's observation of the policy towards the disabled? Does this independent report draw lessons similar to that drawn up by the State, or does it contain nuances or even contradictory elements? Will you now take into account the points raised by Unia and implement measures for the disabled or will you rather expect to receive the report of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is due in 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u65	Mr. Bombled, on 3 December 2021, Unia published its parallel report, an interim report pending that of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, scheduled for 2023. This report is based on two surveys: the consultation of people with disabilities, namely 1,144 people, that Unia carried out in 2019 and 2020, on respect for their rights; and the results of an additional consultation during the health crisis in 2020. These are therefore very special periods. Although this report is very interesting and provides an overview of the daily lives of persons with disabilities, it does not yet take into account the new federal disability plan, which is quite normal. The Federal Action Plan on Disability was approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2021. The plan aims to address the issues raised by Unia, including employment, public consideration in crisis management and accessibility, at least in terms of federal jurisdiction. Many of the skills analysed by Unia are the responsibility of the federated entities. Within the framework of this federal action plan, all relevant ministers are responsible for their own matters. I thank them for this because they are already acting very concretely within the framework of this action plan. An evaluation of this plan will take place in 2022, which will allow us, I hope, to make progress. Then, a final evaluation will take place in 2024 in collaboration with Unia and CSNPH. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the day-to-day work of Unia and her collaboration in the development of this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u66	Minister, thank you for your full answer. As we all know, everyone has the right to full inclusion in society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. It is now written in the Constitution. It is therefore important to act quickly. As you pointed out, disability policy is a policy that affects virtually all government ministers. I mean that resources are devoted to the disabled, particularly in terms of accessibility in public buildings. I have also read that there are plans for improvements at the SNCB and Infrabel level soon. But there are other areas as well. All this is very positive for full inclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u67	Minister, violence against persons with disabilities is unfortunately a reality. In addition, UNICEF estimates that children with disabilities are three to four times more likely to be victims of physical and sexual abuse and neglect than children without disabilities. As part of the exchange of views on the Disability Plan 2021-2024, I said to you that I regret that this plan merely highlights or evaluates a known and unacceptable phenomenon of violence against persons with disabilities without really defining concrete measures, it seemed to me. In order to eliminate this violence completely or at least significantly reduce it, it must be known. Are there figures for our country? If so, could they be communicated? Could you clarify whether measures have been put in place to prevent violence against persons with disabilities or whether action will be taken in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u68	My colleague, we have already been able to mention it here, and you know that Belgium, as a general rule, lacks figures on disability and the issue of violence against people, and this public does not derogate from them. However, decision-making on disability must be based on reliable data and statistics. This lack of figures leads to the invisibility of these people and needs to be addressed. You're right. That is why, through the ICD, which I have finally been able to gather and which is now known as "Well-being, family, sport and disability" (the term disability did not appear in any ICD), I intend to set up a working group on data collection which must be carried out mainly at the level of the federated entities. Within the framework of the Federal Handicap Plan that I initiated, several concrete measures are being put forward by the members of the government. We are aware that this public is particularly vulnerable to violence of any kind and this is totally unacceptable. This problem is not sufficiently highlighted. There is an urgent need to combat such violence. For example, in the area of justice, in order to be properly protected, persons with disabilities must have adequate access to the police system and the justice system. That is why Minister Van Quickenborne has committed himself, on the one hand, to making the register of translators and sworn interpreters available to the general public in digital form, on the other hand, to increasing the number of sign language interpreters and, on the other hand, to making whisper sets available in the courts. We will also promote and promote the registration of complaints via the Internet for those who do not know how to move or the family will be able to do so. There is indeed a big black figure in terms of violence against persons with disabilities. Like any other inter- and intra-violence against vulnerable people, I think it must be one of our priorities. I will also work with the federated entities on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Violence against persons with disabilities is a reality. I am thinking in particular of vulnerable persons, such as women and children with disabilities, who are victims of sexual violence. Indeed, disability and disability are indicators of vulnerability that can serve as a pretext for, or contribute to, domestic violence. As you say, it is very important to collect the data, but also to make them known to the general public in order to make them as aware as possible. While prevention measures are important in order to try to reduce this violence strongly, I believe that another major issue is to gather the words of the victims. Can we not therefore imagine - this is a reflection that I am launching - that both magistrates, lawyers, law enforcement officials, researchers, psychologists and paediatricians go to meet the victims and gather their testimonies if they have been victims of sexual or other violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u70	Madam Minister, I recently tabled a bill to safeguard the payment of Belgian pensions for everyone, regardless of whether the person in question is living in Belgium or in Europe, in the European Economic Area, the United Kingdom, Switzerland or a country with which Belgium concluded a bilateral social security agreement. As a result of this problem, I noticed signs from the field of work of people who have worked for NATO. Apparently, there is no agreement between NATO and our country on social security. People who have worked in NATO for years have not paid contributions to the Belgian or any other pension system. It is therefore logical that they do not build up a pension here. However, I do not think it is logical that the years they have worked do not count in the number of years worked before, for example, access to early retirement. That sounds bizarre to me. The European Regulation 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems does not apply to an official employed in an institution of international law, as it cannot be regarded as an employee as referred to in the Regulation, because he is not subject to national social security legislation. Are you aware of this problem? If so, what solutions do you propose? How is it that until now Belgium has not concluded a social security agreement with NATO while its headquarters are in Haren? When do you foresee the conclusion of such an agreement? Of course, you will have to discuss this with Minister Vandenbroucke, but this is important for pension building. Is it possible to include the years worked for building career years? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u71	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, my administration is indeed aware of this situation. Careers for determining access to early retirement pension shall take into account calendar years performed in the foreign scheme to which either the European social security regulations apply or a social security agreement concluded by Belgium applies. According to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, this includes periods as a European official in the institutions of the European Union. This does not mean that this also applies to periods of employment in a pension system of an international institution which is not an institution of the European Union. If it were to be considered that this should be done, there are two possible solutions: firstly, the conclusion of an international agreement; secondly, the adaptation of Belgian pension regulations. At present, these matters are not on the table, because they are not neutral either. In view of the technicality of the answer, I suggest that you also put these questions in writing so that they can be answered correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u72	Madam President, Minister, I will put another written question on the technical aspects, as you propose. I think it is important that we provide a solution for people who live in Belgium and apply for a pension here, who have worked for NATO, for example, for a number of years. At least those years worked must be included in their pension structure, regardless of the fact that the contribution can come from NATO. Otherwise, people who have worked for NATO for example for 20 years will actually have to work for 20 years longer in our country than other Belgians because they have worked for NATO. This seems very illogical. If it's not in your pension reform today, I hope you'll take it with you anyway. This also applies to the other elements, i.e. pensions for the years of work abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u73	Madam Minister, the organisation of winter care 2021-2022 would be awarded through a public tender for a period of three years. 250 places were assumed for an amount of €39.90 per day. This means a total budget of up to 1,322.000 euros. Who has subscribed to this tender? Who was ultimately awarded the public tender? Can you tell us the details of the tender? When is this shelter operational? What control is being exercised on the housing of the homeless? What has become the final amount on which registration was made?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u74	Ms Samyn, the Social Integration PPS opted for a simplified negotiated procedure with prior notice for the reception and support of homeless people in Brussels during the winter period. The POD has received only one offer for this assignment, namely from the Red Cross in collaboration with the non-profit Doctors of the World. This tender was found to be in conformity and no irregularities were found. The selection committee assessed the tender on the basis of the award criteria and decided to award the contract for a total proposed price of 3,745,500 euros, excluding VAT. This is a fixed price contract for a period of 3 years. With regard to the details of the tender, you can request the specifications in writing. The reception facility will be open from 1 November 2021. Regular consultations are held between the client, the POD and the consortium consisting of the Red Cross and Doctors of the World on the implementation of the services. Each year a self-evaluation shall be prepared and submitted by the organisation. The most important thing is that the procurement of this contract guarantees emergency relief in the second line for the next 3 years. This will put an end to the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u75	Madam Minister, at least we hope that there will be sufficient control over the quality of services provided by the Red Cross, in cooperation with World Doctors. From what we could hear in the press, there have been homeless shelter providers in the past who have had questionable practices and who even charge almost commercial prices to homeless people. To be honest, we were very shocked to hear about this. We must avoid the proliferation of initiatives for homeless care in general. After all, there is still little control over state subsidies. In the past, I have asked questions about this. You also know that the problem needs to be addressed and that the resources must certainly be used properly. Every homeless person is one too many in our care company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u76	Madam President, Minister, the government agreement states on page 22 that your pension reform will aim to control the projected costs of ageing and strengthen solidarity between the highest pensions and lower pensions. Which of the pension reforms you have already undertaken contribute to strengthening this solidarity between the highest and the lowest pensions? Which of the proposals you put on the government table in January also contribute to this? Are you considering any other proposals that could help to strengthen that solidarity? If so, which one? Will you continue to develop them during this reign? Finally, can you indicate which of the proposals already implemented or planned contribute to the management of ageing costs? In what way do they contribute to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, as a social security system, our pension system is based on two fundamental principles: the principle of insurance and solidarity. Both are essential. As the coalition agreement stipulates, we will strengthen both aspects. The pension must be in a reasonable proportion to previous professional income, but we must show solidarity with those who have been less fortunate throughout their career. This balance is reflected at every stage of the pension reform. That is the case with the measures already decided by the government. The minimum pensions will be increased in an unprecedented manner by 2024. This gives certainty to tens of thousands of pensioners who have worked on low wages during their careers, in part-time or precarious jobs. In addition, we raise the wage ceiling, so that the pension also remains in proportion to the working income for those who earned more. This balance will continue to be at the heart of the next stages of the pension reform. We will be strongly committed to solidarity, for example by introducing a flat-rate bonus or better valorisation of part-time work. In consultation with the social partners, we will also propose measures to improve the replacement rate. For your question on affordability, please refer to the answer to your previous oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, there must be a proper balance between the principle of insurance and the principle of solidarity, so we agree on this point. However, we do differ in our opinion as to where that balance is right. At the moment, I only see measures that make the scales more inclined towards solidarity, while less account is taken of affordability, the insurance principle. I keep that in mind, because I have warned about the cost of ageing. Affordability is a political choice, on which we fundamentally disagree. At least I hope that the generation that comes after us will not suffer. If you do not pay more attention to affordability, to the principle of insurance, then I fear that the next generation may suffer, but let us hope not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u79	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is a slightly different question. About the website of mypension.be I will be positive. You're building that website into a good tool. Let us be clear about that. However, on that website we read that on 30 November 2021 Sigedis started sending push messages to all connected users known on 1 January 2021. More than 3.9 million messages have already been posted on mypension.be and in the e-Box. It would be an annual reminder and update to the members. Through one message they are informed about'my supplementary pension' on mypension.be. They will then receive an overview of their supplementary pension on 1 January of each year, starting from 1 January 2021. Madam Secretary, in that context I have the following questions. To what extent are the data on mypension.be on the second pension pillar complete? Are second pillar plans of all pensioners in Belgium already included in mypension.be, or is that still work in progress? If that work is still ongoing, in what areas is there any work to be done? By when do you want the work to be completed? Since the inclusion of the second pillar is linked to the date of retirement, will communication via Sigedis also take place to all right holders at the time of effective legal retirement? If so, when will that happen? If not, why will that not happen and what will prevent you from informing the right holders at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u80	Mr Van der Donkt, the institutions managing the supplementary pension must report to Sigedis on this. Each year they must indicate the account position for each member on 1 January. Employees and self-employed persons can consult this data via mypension.be The declaration is compulsory for all types of supplementary pensions, both for employees and for the self-employed. The information is all in MyPension. There are limited and extinct exceptions. These are pension schemes introduced before the Supplementary Pensions Act. That law does not correspond to the declaration schemes developed for the current forms of supplementary pensions. Supplementary pensions are managed by funds and insurers. Information on retirement and payout is therefore primarily their responsibility. The legislation requires them to inform members of retirement of the outstanding rights. The payment of the supplementary pension is linked to the entry into force of the statutory pension. Therefore, the law provides for information flows from Sigedis to pension institutions. Sigedis sends a database to the pension institutions on a weekly basis containing all relevant information about their members, including retirements or address changes. These data flows, which greatly simplify the management of the second pillar, are currently fully operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u82	Madam Minister, I really only have one question, because the same question has been tabled twice by mistake. The question is somewhat in line with the previous question. You referred to it a short time ago. The managers of supplementary pensions, insurance companies, pension funds, joint committees, indeed also have a responsibility for timely and transparent communication to the right holders on a payment of the second pension pillar and, of course, that is the most important issue also on a correct and timely payment. In the course of 2021, the FSMA examined whether pension institutions provide the required information in good time in the context of that process and make the payment of the supplementary pension in good time. The investigation shows that the payment of non-sectoral pension files can usually be handled within a reasonable period of time and in compliance with legal requirements. With regard to sectoral pension files, the FSMA has identified structural problems which mean that the overall treatment period is on average very high. This is mainly due to the fact that sectoral pension managers are dependent on data that are only provided quarterly through the Crossroads Bank of Social Security to determine the final pension amount. Most pension institutions do not start the payout process until they have received the data, so that the legally imposed payment period cannot be respected. I've already received several e-mails from people complaining about that. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. To what extent have you already taken action to resolve the problem of the sectoral pension files raised by the FSMA in its report? If you have already taken action, what exactly has been changed to enable the pension files concerned to be processed more quickly? If you haven't done that yet, why not? Will you address the issue, whether or not in cooperation with fellow ministers, in the near future? Do you systematically follow whether all the extra-legal pensions under the second pillar are also paid effectively and in good time? Since all plans are also on mypension.be, such a succession can still be automated. Are you considering doing that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u83	Madam Minister, one in four pensioners questioned by the insurer NN Insurance indicate that the statutory pension is not sufficient to cover all basic expenses, hence the importance of extending the second pillar. You said earlier that you yourself would not present ideas to the social partners, but that they should come up with ideas themselves. Wouldn't it be better if you worked out some of them? Do you also look at foreign examples that may be relevant in this context? The European Commission has recently published a study entitled "Best practices and performance of auto-enrolment mechanisms for pension savings." This is a system whereby persons automatically join an additional pension scheme, unless they actively opt out. This is being applied in several countries which have faced the same problem. It has led to a substantial increase in the number of connections to the second pillar. Are you thinking of proposing specific incentives for the founders, namely employers or sectors, who commit themselves to a supplementary pension plan with a minimum contribution of 3%? If so, which one? Is it possible, for example, to envisage an extension of the insurance tax exemption system for the so-called social plans, not for everyone, but for that particular group? What other ideas do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u84	The FSMA published the results of its investigation into the payment of supplementary pensions in 2021. A number of problems were identified, particularly with regard to members of sectoral pension plans. In a number of cases, employees have to wait very long for information on their supplementary pension or on its payment. As you know, I am currently preparing a preliminary draft law to improve transparency within the second pension pillar. In that context, I also intend to work out a solution to this problem. In doing so, I assume three principles. Firstly, workers must be informed in good time when they retire. Six months waiting for information will no longer be possible. Secondly, sectoral pension systems are only able to work at such low costs because they use the data flows of social security, which allows a high degree of automation. We absolutely have to take that into account. Low costs are essential. Thirdly, even taking into account that specific context, it should be possible to speed up the payout process in the long term. If we manage to pay out the statutory pension in good time, we must also be able to do so for supplementary pensions. The FSMA has described a number of possibilities in this area, but we will not put the social partners before the facts. We must give them sufficient margin to adjust their regulations and processes where necessary. The timely payment of supplementary pensions is primarily the responsibility of insurance companies and pension funds. They are supervised by the FSMA, which has made monitoring of correct information on pensions and their timely payment a priority in recent years. Monitoring of this rule will be even more efficient in the future. Under the 2022 budget, it was decided to integrate the databases relating to the building-up of supplementary pensions and the databases relating to their payment. This will make it even easier to identify the rights for which the payment is pending. Mrs. De Block, the pension file will be further discussed within the government in the next few weeks. My intention is to be able to start the work of the social partners in the National Pension Committee as soon as possible. As provided for in the government agreement, we will ask the social partners to make proposals to achieve a minimum pension contribution of 3% for all employees as soon as possible. Complementary pensions are indeed the result of social dialogue. We will only succeed in fundamentally strengthening the second pillar when it is jointly supported by workers and employers. That is also mentioned in the document to which you refer. The creation of a consensus, especially among the social partners, on the objectives and characteristics of the pension system is the critical factor for the success of a supplementary pension system. The ambition of the coalition agreement is clear. We will ask the social partners to make concrete proposals. They will be able to examine what lessons can be learned from the so-called car enrollment system abroad. The regulation of the social pension systems to which you refer may also offer a number of levers. It is up to the social partners to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u85	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It is very reassuring that you have not only read the FSMA report in detail, but that you will also be working on it in a positive way. I get to throw a flower once in a while. We look forward to the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u86	Thank you for your answer. I'm worried. We can assume that the Chamber will be dissolved by Easter 2024 at the latest. If the social partners have to do a thorough job in this area and then have to negotiate costs with the government, and if we still have to wait for implementation, then two years will not be long in this area. We also need to adapt the legislation. That is why I would certainly ask the social partners to work on it as quickly as possible and not to fill the cart with anything and everything, so that it is no longer carried out in this legislature. That's my concern. That is why I may be chasing you a little bit, but I will certainly try to do the same with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u87	Madam Minister, the Federal Planning Office calculated that, due to rising inflation, the central index will be exceeded in February and April of this year. Last year this happened in August and December. That means four increases in 9 months time. The additional costs for pensions are therefore estimated at 4.2 billion for 2022. This is an increase of about 8 %. As a result of the percentage increase, the highest pensions in cents increase much more than the lowest pensions. It is like the people with the lowest pensions who are most affected by rising energy prices, the main engine behind rising inflation. In France, pensions are delayed and only partially adjusted to inflation. France makes use of a combination of a limited reimbursement of pensions as a percentage, combined with an adjustment in cents, only for the lower pensions. Do government revenues follow this increase in the cost of pensions? What is your idea of the French system where the lowest pensions are higher than the higher pensions? Does this French system not seem appropriate to you to fight poverty at the lowest pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u88	Mrs Samyn, it is true that the sharp rise in energy prices has led to an increase in inflation. As a result, the spill-over index was exceeded in August and December 2021. Pensions were increased by 2% one month later. According to the inflation projections of the Federal Planning Office of 1 February 2022, the pivotal index is likely to be exceeded again in February 2022. It also provides for a possible overrun of the pivotal index in April 2022, but this overrun is very slight. The calculation also did not take account of the energy measures. No further overrun of the spill index was predicted for 2023 and 2024. This remains, of course, with a high degree of uncertainty. Indeed, the trend of inflation is strongly influenced by energy prices, which are difficult to predict. The Federal Planning Office will publish a new inflation projection on 17 February. If the central index is exceeded, then one month later pensions and other social benefits are increased, and two months later public employees' wages are increased by 2%. Higher inflation also leads to higher taxes and social contributions. The impact of inflation on the general government budget balance is therefore almost neutral in the long term. The timing of the index overruns is also important. Some years there is a positive budgetary effect and others a negative one. The indexation mechanism as we know it and I am a proud defender of it is essential to protect the purchasing power of all families. However, we are also aware that the indexation mechanism is based on the consumption of the average family and that energy spending often weighs more heavily on low-income families. It is precisely for this reason that, on top of the purchasing power protection provided by the indexation mechanism, we have taken measures to support families to cope with the high energy bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u89	The increase in the lowest pensions previously granted has been completely offset by this huge increase in energy prices. The people who receive the lowest pensions are just collectively impoverished, and unfortunately a 25 euro premium will not change that. As far as we are concerned, the highest pensions should be skimmed and some other pensions should be indexed less in favour of the lowest pensions of those who really need them. In this respect, the French system seemed to us an interesting slope, on which your cabinet and you might consider.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u90	Madam President, Minister, disabled workers who were laid off when Caterpillar was shut down have been victims of an illegal administrative practice by INAMI. Like all laid-off workers, a lump sum extralegal allowance which is not expressed in working time was paid to them. INAMI converted it into a period of several months during which workers were not entitled to invalidity benefits. All these non-invalidity-indemnified months have not been taken into account as an equivalent period for the calculation of the pension. I received the testimony of a former colleague who wanted to take his early pension at age 61 with 43 years of career. The months during which INAMI deprived it of its invalidity benefits were not counted as a similar period. As a result, the career condition is not met at age 61 and his early pension must be carried forward by more than one year, by exactly 16 months. In a judgment of 22 November 2021, the French-speaking labour court in Brussels ruled that the administrative practice of INAMI was illegal and that workers could combine invalidity benefits with the extralegal redundancy benefit. As a result of the regularisation of invalidity benefits, a revision of the entitlements in the pension scheme will also have to take account of these new equivalent periods. As the illegal administrative practice of INAMI has been applied for several years, the consequences in the pension scheme concern far more workers than the Caterpillar invalids alone. Minister, has the Federal Pension Service been informed of this issue by INAMI? Have people who have had a negative impact on their pension rights been identified? How many people are involved? What initiatives do you intend to take to ensure that the rights of injured persons are restored as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u91	Mr D'Amico, the Federal Pension Service has not been contacted by INAMI on this issue. In the meantime, exchanges have taken place between the pension service and INAMI. As the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, Mr Vandenbroucke, replied on 12 January 2022, INAMI is analysing the issue and its impact. A review of the files of the persons who were the subject of the judgment mentioned in the question, seven in total, will indeed take place in the direction set by the court, i.e. the permissible cumulation with the incapacity for work allowances and thus more recovery of the compensation awarded. No appeal has been brought by INAMI and this judgement has therefore become final. The seven persons concerned will be regularized by their mutual affiliation. With regard to the entitlement to benefits of other insured persons, the competent services of INAMI are still engaged in analysing the answers and solutions to this problem, in collaboration with insurers and taking into account the status of the proceedings pending before other courts. Once the revisions have been made, these new pension periods may be taken into account. The effect will only occur at the time of application for a retirement pension or a survivor's pension. The pension service will remain in contact with INAMI in order to monitor the progress of the analysis of other insured persons and possibly to carry out the revision of pension decisions at the same time. For those who are not yet pensioners, a review of the data by mutual affiliation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u92	Thank you, Minister. Do you realize the heaviness of the work of INAMI? It takes a lot of time! Imagine the situation of those people whose pensions are remote: they must post-retirement, while they have already worked 43 years, and are not happy. I encourage you to stimulate INAMI to get it active, because it becomes untenable for these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u93	Madam President, Madam Minister, health and social crises continue. Families are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with lower wages and higher costs. This unstable and precarious situation leads to collateral victims: children. Indeed, according to UNICEF, the strengthening of social inequalities caused by the covid crisis could increase the number of children living below the poverty line, from one in five to one in four children. In order to limit the consequences of parents' precariousness on children, Europe is mobilizing itself through the European Child Guarantee. A total of 1.2 million has been released to reduce the number of children living in poverty by 5 million by 2030. In Belgium, ten CPAS have been selected for support in their initiatives to combat child poverty. Madam Minister, could you tell us more about the projects that will be supported by the European Guarantee for Children? What are the selected CPAS, and how much was awarded to them? How will these projects affect child poverty? Is an evaluation planned in this regard? Are you currently considering new initiatives in the fight against child poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u94	Dear colleague, thank you for your question, which allows me to clarify something important. The Belgian projects supported, which you mentioned, are not supported by the European Child Guarantee. In 2021 and 2022, I decided to finance pilot projects in the country's ten CPAS most affected by child poverty – according to different criteria – for a minimum of one year, amounting to €1.2 million for the two years. I announced this new policy at the end of January, during a field visit to the CPAS de Seraing, which takes part, like the CPAS of Anderlecht, Molenbeek, Ostend, Antwerp, Sint-Niklaas, Ghent, Charleroi, Liège and Namur. This initiative is a follow-up to the local consultation platforms on combating child poverty, funded by my predecessors since 2014. This year, in view of the European Child Guarantee, the goals of reducing child poverty by 2030, I firmly believe that there is no greater injustice than poverty and child insecurity. I therefore decided to launch new projects within this framework. This is therefore neither imposed nor financed by the European Union – perhaps unfortunately, for funding. The objectives of education, early childhood, health and nutrition, which largely fall within the competence of the federated entities, obviously serve us as a red thread. I am not going to go into detail, but these include individual support for homework, funding for healthy school meals, psychological support, child care costs. The aim is to strengthen the expertise and good practices of CPAS in relation to children and thus to expand the support available to their parents. The precariousness of parents, the early confrontation with inequalities can obviously have a negative impact on the future of children. It's not fair. That is why I want to take action against parental poverty (removal of allowances, MIRIAM project, etc.) but also targeted actions for children and young people despite limited federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u95	Minister, thank you for clarifying the situation. Beyond regretting Europe's lack of funding, I would like to congratulate you on carrying this project. It's not nothing; you said it. It's important. Children suffer the consequences of the precariousness not only of their entourage but also of their parents. Discrimination and inequality are part of their daily lives. Providing additional support to CPAS as you have just mentioned, homework assistance, psychological assistance, child care, is important for families. Thank you for the excellent news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u96	Mr Neyt, President of PensioPlus, the dome of pension funds expects lower returns in the future in view of the climate of rising interest rates and inflation. It is therefore, of course, important to reduce the cost of supplementary pensions. The coalition agreement mentions on page 23 the following objective: "The costs, entry and management costs charged by financial institutions under the second and third pillars shall be identified, analysed and, if necessary, measures taken. An important factor in improving the return on supplementary pensions is the cost reduction. This can be done, inter alia, through administrative and legal simplification. Therefore, together with stakeholders, a detailed overview will be made of the further possibilities for automation and cost reduction in administrative management and the handling of supplementary pensions, the legal obstacles will be identified and a roadmap will be drawn up for achieving more efficient solutions." There's a very good idea. Where are we? Have you already identified and analysed the different costs associated with supplementary pensions? What are the findings? Has there been a discussion with stakeholders about the cost reduction? Do you consider it necessary to take effective measures in the context of the studies carried out? If so, how do you see this cost reduction in practice? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u97	Costs are an important factor in the return on supplementary pensions. This is true when financial returns are low, like today. For trust in the supplementary pension, transparency about costs and the reduction of excessive costs is a major challenge. I want to bet on this. In accordance with the coalition agreement, I have worked with Mr Clarinval, Mr Van Peteghem and Mr Dermagne. We commissioned the FSMA to analyse the costs charged by pension institutions. At the end of last year, the FSMA launched a large-scale survey of the sector. The first results of this study are expected in the course of 2022. Furthermore, the government agreement provides for administrative and logistical simplification to be sought. In consultation with stakeholders, we will examine how we can achieve further automation and cost reduction in the administrative management of supplementary pensions. The Complementary Pensions Commission, which collects the stakeholders concerned, has started an inventory of the possibilities. With the preliminary draft law on transparency within the second pillar, I would like to take a step forward in this respect. For example, by making even more use of the possibilities offered by Sigedis and MyPension, we can hit two birds with one stone, namely increasing transparency for the members and simplifying administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u98	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. You can see we don't always disagree. This is the one where we agree. I wish you every success in addressing this problem further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u99	Madam Minister, if people wish to apply for the certificate'recognition of disability', an investigation will be launched into the impact of disability on their daily activities. Usually these people are invited by the FOD to a medical examination. This evaluation raises many questions about the individual's independence, such as the ability to take care of, move or dress. In practice, this research does not always work as well. There are many differences according to the doctor performing the evaluation. For example, there are doctors who mainly take physical constraints into account. If a person with intellectual disabilities is able to travel on a particular route with public transport on his own because he can still walk, it is considered that he has no difficulty in moving. This does not take into account the fact that someone must stand by when unexpected difficulties arise, such as the disappearance of a bus or a bus. In addition, counselors are often silenced during these medical evaluations. We must not assume that a person with intellectual disabilities can always identify the problems he is facing. Sometimes people act better than they are in terms of self-reliance. If supervisors are not allowed to say anything, this often leads to an overestimate of this. A lot of people feel treated by those doctors with insufficient respect and dignity. Madam Minister, you mentioned in your action plan disability that you want to modernise the recognition procedure. When do you plan an evaluation of this and of the point system? What steps will you take in this regard? Will you ensure continuous training of staff and doctors responsible for evaluating people with disabilities? Will consideration also be given to a respectful and dignified approach to these people? Is staff also regularly evaluated and updated where necessary? How is complaints about certain doctors handled? Finally, can you provide more unambiguous guidance on scaling so that individuals are less dependent on a specific doctor and the different assessments of similar situations are avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u100	Mrs Lanjri, as announced during the discussion of my policy paper, a budget has been set aside for Excel Han. The objective of this ambitious programme is to improve the provision of services for citizens. The programme includes several initiatives which are clearly focused on the quality of the evaluation. As regards the recognition procedure, a study on the earning capacity of persons with disabilities is under way. It is not obvious to define that criterion objectively. Not all doctors and regions interpret this in the same way. That is why I asked a team of experts to investigate this problem and to analyse how and why decisions vary. This study should lead to concrete guidelines for a coherent, transparent vision consistent with our principles. As you know, I would also like to introduce multidisciplinary evaluations. For this purpose, agreements will soon be made to set up mixed teams of medical and paramedical experts in each center. Training for staff is both about the evaluation itself and about dealing with clients. The Excel Han programme also allocates resources to ensure a training and learning programme for the entire career within DG Han and to ensure the quality of our services. Finally, staff are evaluated in the framework of the mandatory annual assessments, but also through the existing complaint procedure. This procedure is an important source of improvements, both collectively and for individual workers. DG Han is a public service that has an exemplary role, including vis-à-vis right holders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u101	Madam Minister, I know that you are dealing with the problem, as I indicated in my question. I know you included that in your policy paper. You are now also saying that a team of experts is working on concrete guidelines, so that these different applications will soon be a thing of the past, that there will be a transparent vision and that there will also be a multidisciplinary team. That's okay, but I didn't hear when that was gonna happen. For the rest, you have answered all my questions. I know you're working on it, but I don't know when that unification will happen. Can you clarify that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u102	The minister just told me it's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u103	Then I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u104	Madam President, Minister, this issue has already been discussed in plenary. Unfortunately, the number of people using food banks has increased again in the last year. In 2021, some 177,238 people recruited for a food package per month. That number has never been so high. Of course, the food banks fear that this number will increase in 2022, partly due to the sharp rise in energy prices. In order to respond to this expected increase, the Belgian Federation of Food Banks is asking the government to take the necessary initiatives. This demand is partly due to the fact that food companies donated less food surpluses in 2021. There was a decrease of 11 %. The dependence on federal aid has thus increased. Thanks to the REACT-EU package, the federal government received more than €40 million for 2021 and 2022 to distribute through the European Aid Fund to the most needy, the FEAD. The government itself co-financed an additional EUR 14 million, i.e. EUR 27 million per year for food aid. That money is distributed among the food banks, the OCMWs, the Red Cross, and numerous non-profit organisations. I have some questions for you. What part of the total budget of EUR 54 million for 2021 and 2022 was spent on food aid or material aid in 2021? Will the remaining resources be sufficient to meet rising demand this year? What is your response to the request from the Belgian Federation of Food Banks for additional support? Do you also receive signals from OCMWs, distribution platforms, non-profit organisations, that additional support is needed? Finally, something we are concerned about. In 2023, the FEAD will be included in the ESF+. What impact will this have on European aid for food aid to our country? Do you expect an increase or a decrease in annual resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u105	Madam President, Minister, applications for food parcels have exploded. In 2021, more than 177,000 people used food banks for nearly 22,229 tons of food distributed. Because of the confinement, temporary unemployment and the disappearance of certain jobs. Growth was mainly observed in the fourth half of the year, when the cost of living increased sharply. The absorption of these new demands is difficult for food banks. The volumes distributed were comparable to those for 2020, but the banks saw a decrease of 11% in surpluses given by the food industry. This is compounded by the fact that food banks received 20% less goods from the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived (EFAD). Minister, in the face of inflation and rising prices for many essential products such as energy and certain food products, food banks fear that they will not be able to ensure the new wave of demands this year. What measures are you planning to put in place to support food banks? Are you considering asking the FEAD to abandon the possibility of a 30% reduction in donations from 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 it was 24.95 million that was allocated to food or material aid, of which 18 million was allocated under the FEAD. Through additional federal budgets, we have been able to allocate $2 million for CPAS, $2.25 million for food banks and $2.7 million for material assistance. It is not possible for us to predict the increase in demand, but we have, again, found substantial resources for 2022, both under the FEAD (23.68 million) and through the federal government for CPAS (3 million) or material aid (2 million). The funds are not yet allocated, but food banks are informed that it is possible to spend money under this envelope, which will be repaid to them. To answer a question from Mr Colebunders, who is absent, I would like to say that, in the face of the decline in donations from the agri-food sector, reducing the means for food banks to provide perishable goods, I have again released an additional EUR 2.25 million for food banks. Next year, resources for the FEAD under ESF+ will fall. The regions have decided to reduce their contribution to food aid and to invest primarily in training, integration into the labour market and so on. We will therefore look at how demand evolves and, if necessary, adjust funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u107	Madam Secretary, we are concerned about the situation in 2023. If I understand correctly, in 2023 only one third of the amount available for food aid this year will be available. In 2022 it will be EUR 27 million, and in 2023 there would be only EUR 8.5 million available. We are a little concerned about that, especially in view of the rising demand. We hope that something can be done about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u108	Thank you, Madam Minister. Of course, we will have to pay attention, but I would point out that, if I understood correctly, you have released another 2.25 million for food banks. You also mentioned the fact that the Regions have decided to make another choice, and to reduce food aid to do more training. It will obviously be necessary to pay attention to the evolution of demand and to examine things at that time. But I guess you'll do what you can. I will not fail to ask you again about the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u109	I will send the tables for 2021 and 2022 to the committee secretariat. Here you will find details of the means released for CPAS, food banks and the general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic704x.u110	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 55025360C is converted into a written question.
