ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on that? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u3	I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2022, the following words have been agreed: - for the general discussion: 20 minutes for opposition groups, 15 minutes for majority groups and 10 minutes for non-recognised groups; - for questions to ministers: 5 minutes per speaker; - for any interruptions: they may only be addressed to the speaker and shall be limited to a maximum of 2 minutes. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2022, the following speaking time shall be agreed: - for the general discussion: 20 minutes for the opposition groups, 15 minutes for the majority groups and 10 minutes for the non-approved groups; - for questions to Ministers: 5 minutes per speaker; - for the possible interruptions: they should be addressed only to the speaker and should be limited to a maximum of 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Laaouej and Leysen, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u5	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Minister, once again we are dealing with the budget and budgetary control. I would like to start by taking you to the year 2004, especially October 2004, to be precise. Then there was a very interesting piece of opinion in the newspaper entitled 'Only leadership can bring salvation'. It was an open letter, then written by the Flemish Minister for Work and Education, Minister Frank Vandenbroucke. It was an excellent piece of opinion, which essentially and in summary meant that there was great urgency. As a Flemish minister, he criticized the Belgian government, which he felt had to take urgent steps and intervene fundamentally, to keep social security affordable in the future and to respond to the ageing of society. There was great urgency and great need due to the ageing of society. We had to do business and structural reform. We are writing 2004 and the document was a huge warning of costs. For those Members who do not remember him correctly, the letter was almost the beginning of the temporary end of Minister Frank's career and became the beginning of Master Frank's renewed temporary academic career, because the letter caused quite a stir. However, it was not the first letter that Frank Vandenbroucke wrote that year. In January 2004, he also wrote a letter, together with Johan Vande Lanotte, at that time Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government. It was a very interesting letter, from which I brought you a number of quotes. The letter was about the fact that the budgetary needs were enormous and that there really had to be reform. I will come back to the quotes later, but first I would like to explain why I begin my speech with those two letters. Colleagues, I remember those letters very well. I just graduated. For me, these letters were the start of my interest in the budget, in the budget, in pensions and in the ageing population to which society evolved. What's that gonna cost? What are the challenges? How do we deal with things? I remember the momentum of Frank Vandenbroucke's letter very well. The letter has also been the beginning of my interest in the Wetstraat. You may have forgotten a little more, but we saw how the letter reacted immediately. Frank Vandenbroucke had made an interesting analysis, but he had also suggested a solution in his letter. That solution was next. The CD&V, who was in opposition at that time at the time of the Verhofstadt government, absolutely had to enter the purple-green government. After all, that would be the solution for everything, being the classic tripartite, to save the policy. The whole debate has immediately been postponed. It wasn't about the content anymore. It wasn't about the budget anymore. It wasn't about pensions anymore. It was about the dolls. It was about which minister exactly would make the change. It was about the political game. However, the challenge was completely different. It was a really cool time, wasn't it, Servais? At that time CD&V went into opposition to the purple-green fools. The situation is somewhat different now, even though it is economically worse than the Verhofstadt government. Anyway, that's another discussion. I found those letters very interesting at the time. I found them very remarkable, precisely because the content message was so quickly snowed under by the political puppet stories of October 2004. Frank Vandenbroucke was very sharp at the time, as we know him. I have a number of quotes from those letters from Frank and Johan. "Is 2004 going to be a lost year because necessary decisions, necessary reforms, will be postponed? The problems are getting bigger and bigger. Ageing is one of those problems. There isn't much time left for us to really cut the buttons." Not so much time anymore. We write: 2004. "We are not on the right track in terms of employment, either. The Belgian employment rate is well below the European average. The difference is untenable." That is still the case today. "Belgium is after Italy the country with the greatest regional differences across Europe." That was in 2004. That's still the case today. "As far as the employment of immigrants is concerned, we are the worst pupil of the European class." That was in 2004. That's still the case today. "And there is the Brussels tragedy: massive unemployment, while there is a shortage of labour in the immediate vicinity of Brussels." That's still the case today. That's an analysis that's still going on today. The years under the Verhofstadt government have become lost years. But also your first two years, the years under your government, the Croo government have become exactly that: lost years. And so I come to this budgetary control. It's about the essence. It's about the labour market. It's about pensions. It is about the analysis of a top politician from the Flemish government, who dared to open his mouth to his colleagues from the federal government. The alarms were already there and they have not diminished today, quite the contrary. The European Commission, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund all say that Belgium has the worst budget of all, with the highest debts, the biggest deficits, the highest taxes and the lowest growth. Our productivity growth is also among the lowest of all countries in the European Union. You'd think the reaction to that would be urgent. I don't see it. Moreover, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank say very literally in the reports discussed in the committee that the financial sustainability of Belgium and this federal government is not guaranteed. The sustainability of public finances is not ensured. She's not sustainable. We're definitely gonna hit the wall. Not only international experts, but also experts from our own institutions make this analysis. Once again, we would expect urgency, especially from a government that has been saying that it will finally start listening to its experts and that we should not criticize experts. Apparently, you only listen to experts you want to listen to, but not experts from the National Bank, from the IMF, from the OECD and from the Court of Auditors who argue very clearly that your story is not financially sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u6	Mr Loones, we also had the discussion in committee and you are rather focused on the passage in the reports on the sustainability of public finances. Like you, I went back in the past, not until 2004, but a few years ago. The Court of Auditors' report on the 2017 budget states, and I quote: "for the rest, the description of the medium-term impact of the planned policies on public finances is limited. This is particularly true of the measures taken under the tax shift. Although these policies are far-reaching in budgetary terms, the multiannual framework does not contain any information on them. As a result, the impact on the long-term sustainability of public finances cannot be assessed." On the 2018 budget, the Court of Auditors states, I quote: "The Court of Auditors finds that the information contained in the general explanatory memorandum does not comply with Article 124 of the above-mentioned law. An assessment of how the envisaged policies could affect the long-term sustainability of public finances cannot be assessed." Therefore, the budgets in which you have contributed will also receive comments on sustainability. In this sense, there is a certain consistency in budgetary policy. I expected a little more enthusiasm from you about the current budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u7	Mr Vanbesien, I expected a stimulating question, but unfortunately I have to say that we do have that information in the meantime. When action is taken, the challenge is always to assess the impact using simulations. Meanwhile, we know the impact of the tax shift, because the tax burden has fallen and the purchasing power, especially of people with lower and middle incomes, has increased. We've created over 200,000 jobs. The positive return of the tax shift is fully guaranteed and funded. We have also combined this with a policy that has also led to a fall in public debt. At the moment we have acted as best we can and on the basis of simulations, but in the meantime everyone can see, factually substantiated, what the real impact has been, in particular positive. In that respect, I do not think I am inconsistent. However, I think, coming back to my speech, that we are looking very carefully at the very clear alarm signals of the experts, much stronger than ever heard before. Yesterday we had the National Bank on the Finance Committee. Each of us who have spoken there, both opposition and majority, has made the same analysis, namely that the situation is really worrying. Potentially, the public debt will go towards 130 %. In the current situation, we are already among the worst scores of all countries in the European Union. I can throw in another element. Your own purchasing power expert group published the temporary report last week, on which Mr De Roover asked a question in plenary. The expert group says very literally that there are no buffers at all. It's a big story of macroeconomic negativity. Every expert pulls the alarm bell. But what are you doing with this budgetary control, Madam Secretary of State? A disastrous situation of the EUR 16 billion deficit simply makes you even worse. All experts warn and say that things have to be different, but this government is doing more of the same, because there is an extra EUR 4.7 billion in deficit without a single compensatory measure. There are no reforms against each other. Of course, it could be even worse, because the green parties come up with a new wish list of EUR 3 billion and the PS with a list of EUR 6.5 billion, just to excel in additional spending, without the absolutely necessary reforms. This leads me to the conclusion that we are experiencing lost years, and I find that particularly worrying. For the sake of clarity, I do not place all responsibility on the government, but it is a sign of the typical Belgian mediocrity: this country simply cannot work properly. That is an analysis that we have already made and will continue to make. It would be unfair for us to say it's all your fault. It is also the fault of how Belgium works: it is congenital mediocrity. Everyone can see that, but unfortunately you can't. By the way, you want to prove that Belgium does work. Well, then prove it. You insisted on this minister's post, you insisted on this government, you said you'd do everything differently and better. What's stopping you? Prove it. Come up with the reform of the labour market, come up with the reform of pensions, come up with a better migration policy that not only costs us more money, but also puts stones in the river. However, you do not. You are only continuing to accumulate deficits, including with this budgetary control, and there is growing criticism of this. People on the streets sometimes think that I am still in the European Parliament, but when I say that I am in the Chamber, they talk about the circus in Brussels. In all honesty, I find it a hugely painful analysis and rather punitive language to put Brussels politics on the market as a circus, but I have thought about it. Look at Alexander De Croo, who is thought to be the director of that circus, who controls things and ensures that the program is followed and that the agreements made are respected. However, the Prime Minister has nothing under control. He's not the director of the circus. At best, he's the magician, the Houdini. When it comes to debates and the budget, we do not see him anywhere. In other cases, he is the magician who said in the coalition agreement that he would save EUR 3 billion, which suddenly becomes an exercise of only a few hundred million euros, which he is communicatively selling as EUR 2.4 billion. He puts that back in his big black magic hat and go, add 4 billion euros extra short. Welcome to circus Vivaldi with magician Alexander De Croo. Madam Secretary of State, I see you're wondering who you are in the circus, if Alexander De Croo is the magician, which you might have liked to have been. You're not the ticket salesman at the entrance. That is the Minister of Finance, who, by the way, makes the tickets more and more expensive. To come and see the Vivaldishow, we can all pay more and more: at the pump, in the shop, inflation, tax burden. Your role is that of the knife thrower, Madam Secretary of State, or perhaps rather the person who opposes the purpose where the knives are thrown. I often feel sorry for you when I see what you're going through. All your partners at the government table are doing nothing but constantly throw knives at you. They want extra money all the time, and there's nothing you can do. You just have to stay still, because once you put your foot down... maybe you shouldn't have been the knife-thrower, but you should have been the sword-licker. Maybe there was some more iron in the lady. Who else do we have in your government? Minister Dermagne. If he already has a role to play in that government, it is that of ventriloquist, and then of the doll rather than of the ventriloquist himself. We saw him before the start of budgetary control at a press conference, together with his party chairman, Mr Magnette. What was that? Since when do we think it is normal for ministers to quote party programmes in function? Since when has that become the new reality? And that while Minister Dermagne is just sitting on the authority where the biggest difference can be made. Witness today the figures of economist Bart Van Craeynest. If you look at the possibility of growth if real labour market reforms or pension reforms were to be implemented, Belgium's is the largest of all European countries, but Minister Dermagne cannot reform his President. He can't do anything, he can only plead for more spending, he can only slow down, even at the press conference, and that's where it stops. His own chairman is not in the circus, but is outside the tent arguing against his own company. We see the result in this budget. The PS makes its move: with additional expenses and payback effects that are calculated, but which are unsubstantiated. What about the clown? Every circus has a clown. Does Vivaldi have a clown? Members of the opposition think that I will now start talking about Kristof Calvo and people from the majority about Mr Bouchez. You're both wrong. Mr Kristof is absolutely not a clown. I know him as a hard-working MP trying to fight for his files. He must do so earlier today from the gallery, although in the royal lodge between the other knights and commanders. There are many stories about Mr Bouchez too, but my personal analysis is that he is far from a clown. He's the only one who's trying to put some fire, some pepper, some liberal ambition into this government team. He does so from an honest position, from outside the government as party chairman, not from within as minister sabotaging his own colleagues. That is the way the debate can be conducted and, as far as I am concerned, that is the right thing to do. If Mr Bouchez were asked what he wanted to be in the circus, I think he would probably answer "Lion Bucket." I think he'd like to tame lions, but he's not very successful at that. Maybe he's more of a fireblower, and as far as I'm concerned, he might be. A little liberal fire from the MR might please this government. Madam Secretary of State, budgetary control is a missed opportunity. There's just nothing under control. You are part of a team that has no connection and where colleagues seem to want to sabotage each other before or to perform their own show. This means that the last few years have been effectively lost years. I would like to say a few words about what you stand for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u8	Mr Loones, you have spoken several times about lost years. About Verhofstadt, about this government. If you're talking about lost years, I'd like you to talk about all the lost years. There has also been a lost year and a half that began in December 2018, when your party left the Swedish government. That was a good government, but you left the ship there. You left the budget at an impasse and what follows. You did not even approve it in December, when there was an agreement on it in the summer. If you talk about lost years, don't forget to say yourself that those lost years were organized by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u9	I'm terribly sorry, but I expected some more exciting questions this afternoon. When we left the government, it was with a budget deficit of only 0.8%. At that time, purchasing power had increased, public debt had fallen and the tax burden had fallen. The work for the future, the jobs, was prepared: it was ready in Mr Peeters' slide. Mr Peter De Roover has clearly stated in this House that we will always be available to continue to support the job deal, but you do not want that. Once the N-VA has left the government, the ambition of the Michael government disappeared. We could have approved that job deal perfectly, but your party didn't want that. Your party didn't want to organize that vote with us. It was on the table, but you wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u10	Mr Loones, you are speaking almost 19 minutes. You have not talked so much about budgetary control, which is, however, on the agenda today. You are mainly concerned with political historiography and, above all, with fake news about political historiography. My suggestion would be that you devote the remaining part of your speech to budgetary control and you remember that although you had approved a budget for 2018 and a work deal at the government table, you did not want to approve it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u11	It is a pity, however, that Mr Kris Peeters did not do so. The drawer open, the job deal out, and then the job deal was approved in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u12	Mr Loones, you have already praised the 2017 budget, the 2018 unapproved budget and the good results at that time. However, yesterday we both attended the hearing of the National Bank of Belgium. According to her, one of the great missed opportunities of recent years is the fact that insufficient use has been made of a period of low interest rates to clean up the primary balance. That is not about the vivaldi budgets, which are two budgets in crisis years. That is about the budgets for that. So just screaming the praise trumpet, maybe it's also a figure in the circus: the praise trumpet roller.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u13	Colleagues, I hope you will listen a little to my statements. Each year I was in this Parliament for the budget, I myself referred to the fact that we are also responsible for the deficits. We did better, but we didn't. We should have reformed more ourselves. In fact, I myself repeated that yesterday in committee. You can read the report. We should have done better too, but unfortunately we had a number of partners who were quite a fan of the European Central Bank's lax monetary policy. When Mr Johan Vanovertveldt first criticized this House, we were overflowing. We never covered up that we should have done better, but we did do better. The parameters are clear: jobs, purchasing power, government debt down and tax pressure down. Those are the facts as they are. I decide. Because of the questions I will have to shorten my conclusion. We are still in very challenging times. There are many elements on which we have no control, for the sake of Ukraine, for the sake of corona, for the sake of the production chains. These are things that we have no control over. What we ask of you is not to realize the impossible. We also know that you have no control over a number of matters. What we are asking you to do is to finally check what you have control of, to make budgetary control a real control, to turn your labour market policy into a real labour market policy and finally to come up with those reforms that we ourselves can decide on. Then we will not be dependent on other countries in the European Union. We can do that perfectly ourselves. We ask you finally to come up with a pension reform which is going to bring about an effective reform, which has been promised more than a year ago and on which we now read in the press that this is going to be a mini-retirement agreement, just as the employment deal has been a mini-deal. Please finally take over the powers. Go check what you're in control of. Exercise those powers that you do have control over. Then perhaps we will finally see a migration policy that brings costs under control and ensures that people get a bed, which they are legally entitled to. Then perhaps we will have a government that does not allow its own cabinet loans to increase over and over again, but that itself is a good example. Then perhaps we will finally see a situation where the state debt is under control and where, as the National Bank acknowledged yesterday, we may not be placed in a situation where public debt will rise to 130 percent. That is why we need fewer circus performers, Mr Vanbesien. We need more Frank Vandenbrouckes, as he was in 2004. We need ministers who dare to open their mouths, who dare to go for the real reforms, who dare to go for the honest analyses and who do not continue to lose themselves in misguided political discussions whether the N-VA has left the government. Reality has shown how things really are. You wanted this job? Then do your job. That's what this is about. You want budgetary control? Do a budget control worthy of that name. What we are doing here today is simply acting on a wish list of EUR 4 billion of additional expenditure on top of an already disastrous budget. This isn't control. This government has nothing under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u14	During Mr Loones's speech, I found that, when replying to the questions put by my fellow Members, time was also ticking. It was, of course, the agreement at the conference that we should have 20 minutes of speaking time. If there are ten questions to which Mr Loones has to answer for two minutes, speaking time is already entirely up to the questions alone. Can you allow time to be ticked off on the basis of the statement and not on the basis of the answers to questions? Otherwise, of course, an argument can be filled very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u15	Many questions can be put to the services, but the difference between the presentation and the reply to Members is difficult. We'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with a few considerations concerning the general economic context, and then let my colleague Dieter Vanbesien take over. We know the macroeconomic figures, since they were given to us in the Finance Committee. Even if, for us environmentalists, the rate of growth does not represent the alpha and omega of an economic situation, we must see its slowdown. Inflation is literally blazing because of the rise in energy prices: more than 8% for this year, 3.5% for next year and, perhaps - according to the latest National Bank forecasts - 1.8% by 2024. The context is therefore complex. That is why we are taking urgent measures to support the purchasing power of our citizens, particularly in terms of energy. In this very complicated context, however, some indicators are positive. In this respect, I am obviously falsely opposed to the unidirectional reading of my colleague Loones, who has drawn an extremely dark picture of it. That's not the case. Thus, with regard to employment and economic redeployment that we have known since last year, Statbel notes that in the first quarter of 2022, 71.9% of the 20-64 age group were at work in our country. I quote: "Never before had so many people been at work in Belgium." The unemployment rate for these categories fell from 5.8% to 5.4%. This does not mean that things are extremely pink and positive, but that redeployment - which the government continues to encourage - will allow several people to fill all the vacant jobs on the labour market, whether in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. Indeed, these figures show an improvement in this area in the three regions, with nuances. In any case, your systematic denigration of Francophones is not resistant to analysis. I wanted to correct your remarks. Yes, some indicators are positive. It is therefore to be hoped that they will remain so, despite certain delicate economic parameters. In the Finance Committee, we also talked about the deficit. The initial budget envisaged it at EUR 16.6 billion. Now it has increased by $4.1 billion, but for reasons that we can all understand. I am thinking of the war in Ukraine, a Russian aggression that no one could anticipate. That's 2.3 billion euros. On the other hand, and I welcome it, there are the protective measures, this social shield, which we have deployed in the form of the social energy tariff, as well as the reduction of excise duties and VAT. Indeed, it has a cost for public finances! But what else are you proposing, colleagues in the opposition? Don't do anything? Leave people in indigence and difficulty? I'm proud of this social shield, Mr Loones!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u17	Mr Vanden Burre, allow me to interrupt and give the floor to Mr Anseeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u18	Mr Vanden Burre, you are singing somewhat the same song about the level of activity as the Minister of Work, Mr Dermagne. You refer to the rate of effectiveness of 72 % as an unseen record. Only Statbel updated last year's figures, to which you refer. The reason is that in Belgium it seems to be common practice to include quite a few temporary unemployed people, who do not work effectively, in the level of activity. This is not happening in other European countries. The real efficacy rate for last year was thus set by Statbel at 70.6 %. That actually means that the balloon held up by the majority for months as a shave has been pierced by unseen peaks in this country, because up to one digit after the comma, the government has not made any progress in comparison to the period before the coronapandemic. Those are the hard figures, that's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u19	Mr Vanden Burre, you mentioned the state's spending and set the context for the war in Ukraine. We can very well understand the social expenditure needed to respond to the economic crisis resulting from this war and other reasons. However, another element resulting from this war is the 2% increase in the Defence budget. You have stood against this increase in the past, but you are now part of a government that has signed an agreement to increase Defence's budget to 2%. We do not really understand your position on this, and much less since this morning, in the Joint Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee, you were not there to give your position so that we could understand your thinking on the subject. Are you in favour, opposite? Does this agreement mean nothing - as we were able to hear in the leadership of some members of your party? Can you clarify your position on the 2% increase in the Defence budget? Do you stand up for this deal? If so, did you ignore your opposition posted last week?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u20	It is strange to note that Green and Ecolo excelled in the absence of one of the most important debates on defence and foreign affairs, namely the investment plan for the coming years, in the light of the forthcoming summit in Madrid. Green, however, has a reputation for international politics and is very active in that committee. Maybe I'm misinterpreting that; everyone has busy agendas. In any case, it is very strange that no one from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance was present. That is all the more strange given the bold statements after the agreement on the 2% on the night of Saturday on Sunday. Ecolo tweeted that the agreement no longer represents the intention signed by Di Rupo in 2014 and that nothing else needs to be found behind it. The government would do the same as the Di Rupo government. It would only be an intention to work towards the 2% of GDP for defence expenditure by 2035. The Prime Minister said something completely different when I questioned him about that. He stressed that this was a concrete objective which the government parties committed themselves to. Your party says otherwise, Mr Vanden Burre. So it is no longer clear to me what the government's position on the 2% is. What does the head of government have to explain next week in the name of his government? Are we working at 2% of GDP for defence expenditure by 2035 at the latest? Is that a serious commitment or not? Please provide some clarity, because at the moment that is not clear at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u21	Thank you for all these questions. I'll try to answer it one by one. Colleague Anseew, I'm comparing numbers with numbers. You can always question the calculation method. We take today's Statbel figures and compare them to those of last year or two years, five years and ten years. I think you know the reality, because I know you are active in the Social Affairs Committee. Today, if we look at Region, and look at Flanders - a region that I think you know a little bit - it is almost in full employment. I think we can say that. The unemployment rate is 3.5%. She knows what is called frictional unemployment in the economy. There are almost no more jobseekers and that is something that I am happy with as a Belgian citizen. At the level of the Brussels Region, we are around 12% and in Wallonia around 8.5%. What does that mean in practice? Let all figures improve in all three regions. I welcome that, too. On the other hand, this means that today there are a lot of opportunities. Especially on the Flemish side, but also throughout the country, it is difficult to recruit a whole series of vacant posts, from knelpuntberoepen. The word eludes me in French, but you understand me. There is a whole series of opportunities today and that is where we have to work. We must encourage our fellow citizens, no matter where they live, to emancipate themselves, to find work if it suits them, in a sector that suits them, in another Region. Last Friday I was in your region, in West Flanders, in Harelbeke, 30 km from the linguistic border, near Mouscron, Tournai, etc. What does Flemish employers explain to us? That everyone is welcome to work here. They are there, ready to accompany, to train, including in French. But that is what we must do! And not start pointing, as you continually do, saying: "Where are the numbers? They're bad!" No. Employment figures are improving. We can always do better and I am quite willing to do so, by encouraging our fellow citizens, by offering quality jobs and by training, without pointing a finger, without sanctioning and without punishing. This is our ecological vision of society. And it happens that today, in fact, it works! Not enough, as I said, but you are in full employment in Flanders. It's hard to do much better. In Brussels and Wallonia, there are still opportunities to do better. We are working on it, whether in Brussels or in different areas in Wallonia. There are specific problems in some sectors. I'm not going to elaborate all the details, but I can do it if you want. At some point, we must stop with this speech that there is nothing going on, that Francophones are balls, etc. It's painful. I'm sick of it! It bothers me. He didn't say that? He keeps saying it in committee. Mr. Loones implied it. You make regional differences. Why don't you say it's better? I've never heard that. Anyway! This is a first answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u22	Mr Vanden Burre, it is true that unemployment in Flanders is very low. Are we supposed to be happy about that? Actually, no. There is an even bigger group. You are right to say that there are hardly any jobseekers, but there are 2 million inactive people in this country. My first question to you is why the government, the majority, is still not taking any action to lead the inactive, who are not looking for work today, but could work somehow, into our labour market. Why do you not take any initiative to lead only a fraction of that group of 2 million people to our labour market, in view of the huge cut-off? Employers in my region, in my province of West Flanders, welcome everyone to work there. My region in West Flanders is close to the French border. We find that a lot of French people come across the border to fill out our open vacancies. Very striking, the Hainauts, who live no further than the French, on the contrary, apparently still do not find their way to West Flanders. My second question to you is why the government is not taking decisive measures to encourage those people to fill open vacancies. There are two clear, clear questions to you, Mr Vanden Burre, together with the correction and clarification that the number of job seekers is indeed far too low, but the number of inactive people is far too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u23	Madam President, allow me to pick up on the debate. Mr Vanden Burre, I have indeed seen on your Facebook page that you visited the company Stadsbader in Harelbeke to determine the reality of the West Flemish and Flemish labour market with your own eyes. We could actually go together, because that's in my backyard. I do fall back on the way you talk about that visit here and also on what you write on your Facebook page, from which I quote. "This company has a policy in place that favours the employment of French-speaking people in Wallonia and even in France, in West Flanders." It's the other way around, of course. What's the problem in West Flanders? There are more French speakers from France working in West Flanders than from Hainaut. As long as you do not mention the problem that inhabitants of Hainaut, with the same language problems as inhabitants of France, simply do not want to come to work in West Flanders, you are ignoring the reality, when that problem needs to be mentioned. That problem also denounces West Flemish employers day after day. You do not mention the problem correctly, not on the speaker's seat, but also on your Facebook page regarding your constituents. We have a fundamental problem in this country, namely the far too low level of labour mobility between our provinces. There is much more labour mobility between France and West Flanders than between Hainaut and West Flanders. You must dare to acknowledge that. This fundamental problem needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u24	Mr Vermeersch, I am going to the field to understand the problems and not to make rotten clichés as you are doing. There are 15,000 northern French who cross the border to work in West Flanders every day and 7,000 come from Hainaut. If we take the proportion of the population...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u26	Oh, can't we divide? That's exactly what people are talking about there. You don't want us to go to the field and look at the numbers! It doesn't change that you should be encouraged, but it bothers you. You laugh, but you don't like it! That is the problem. You can't go on with your discriminating speeches. If you're happy with it, laugh well, but the reality is there! The Hauts-de-France is the province on the other side of the border. If we take the number of people who come to work in West Flanders in relation to the number of inhabitants, it is almost the same ratio as the population of Hainaut which is much smaller. I'm trying to disassemble your rotten clichés. That's what I'm doing. And you don't like it because we're going to the root of the problems. What do you mean? The Walloons stay at home because they prefer to watch television all day long. That's your speech. Frankly, I'm not interested. I don't even want to argue with you anymore because I know very well what your intentions are. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u27	With you, I'd like to continue to debate even if it's complicated. You're talking about "two million inactive people," but there's a real political difference. I'm glad to take care of it. We, the environmentalists, want to encourage people who are looking for jobs. There is no problem, we must encourage and train. That's why we're going to put all the sick people on the job! If you say "the inactive" and you remove the job-seeking population, what is left is the sick. There, there are other routes to be set up, individualizing as this government is trying to do. But my speech is not about putting sick people back on the labour market in a more or less brutal or strong way. These are other policies, other individualized journeys. I have here the latest study of the KU Leuven which shows very well the number of people who are actually actively seeking employment and the number of sick people. That's exactly where I make a difference that you don't make, either; that's where the difference is. I still have other questions to answer, but I do not know how the debate will be managed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u28	Mr Vanden Burre, I appreciate that you want to have a debate with me. It would be lacking in a parliament, but you are making a bit of a mess. You reduce 2 million inactive people to sick people who can't work. Your own minister, Frank Vandenbroucke, says that the government must do something to bring long-term ill back to the labour market. If you think he's an idiot, just say so. Of these 2 million inactive people, 700,000 do not even receive benefits, not even sickness benefits, so it can be assumed that they are not sick and that they are simply not interested in working. For the prosperity in this country, which you are so anxious to redistribute, today you are actually redistributing what has been gone for a long time. I'll paraphrase my question. I will continue with the figures you are quoting, but I will have to check if they are correct myself. You say that 7,000 people from Hainaut and 15,000 people from France work in West Flanders. Imagine those 15,000 workers from France coming from Hainaut in the future. This would mean that we would have to pay less benefit to 15,000 people and they would have a chance of a good income from work. I don't think you'd be against that. Today, as many as 15,000 vacancies in West Flanders would be filled by French people, a figure which I repeat with reservation. Now, why does the government not do anything, but nothing, to give any impetus to activate the inactive? Why don't you take that chance? That's low-hanging fruit, if you ask me. Why wouldn't you want to pick that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u29	On Mr Vanden Burre's statement, I took the figures. The unique situation in this country is that the province with the lowest unemployment, namely West Flanders, lies just next to the province with the highest unemployment, namely Hainaut. The unemployment rate in Nord-Pas-de-Calais is similar. We have also received figures from Eurostat: almost 15,000 employees come from Nord-Pas-de-Calais to West Flanders and only 5,000 from Hainaut. If, of course, you take France as a whole, you can hide it from your constituency: no residents from Bordeaux come to work in West Flanders. You write on your Facebook page that even residents from France are coming to work in West Flanders. It is just the other way around: inhabitants from France come to work in West Flanders and even inhabitants from Wallonia. Tell the truth in Parliament and to your constituents and do not avoid that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u30	Madam President, I am reacting quickly to Mr Anseeuw's question. According to the KU Leuven study of February 2022, out of 100 people in the labour force, 70 people work, 6 want to work more, 4 are actively seeking work, 6 are inactive because they are unable to work (my vision of society is that they are entitled to a different journey), 4 are at home (they are called men and women in the home), 5 have left the labour market prematurely, 5 are still on school benches and 5 are having difficulty entering the labour market (they need to be encouraged and trained to return to work). That's the reality of the numbers. I'm not going much further. I don't want to sneeze any more. Two defence-related questions were asked to me. In the context of this debate on budgetary adjustment, as was also discussed in the Finance Committee, an agreement was reached at the level of this government in February. He decided to move towards an increase in the defence budget to 1.54% of GDP. We fully assume this agreement. The first effects of this budgetary adjustment are 2.3 billion. They are linked to the war in Ukraine, the reception of refugees and other elements. Yes, we assume, in view of the dramatic external shock of the Russian attack in Ukraine, to be able to increase spending, as we did according to this ministerial decision of February. You asked me about the fact that my colleague was absent this morning from the Defence and External Relations Committees. I don't have a problem giving you the reason. Total transparency. My colleague Mr Guillaume Defossé is in Vienna, where he is attending the discussions on the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. This is an extremely important dimension of the ongoing discussions in the Defence budget. I am pleased that one of my fellow environmentalists is attending this international meeting of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty as an observer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u31	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for letting me know about the agreement on 1.54%. But we read the press and we were already aware of this agreement. I was talking to you about another recent agreement on the increase to 2% of GDP. In that regard, you did not answer me. What is your position on this agreement? Indeed, before this one intervened, you said you were against this increase. Yet you approved it. I therefore wonder what you are going to say to your constituents, to some of your members who are active in the peace movement and who have mobilized against those 2 per cent. I would therefore like to know your position on this new agreement. With regard to the question of the absence of your group from the Defence and External Relations Committees this morning, when I hear your answer, I understand the reason for this absence. You said that one of your colleagues was attending another meeting, but you are normally three. Where were the others? In addition, these were two commissions combined. It is therefore a question of six people. If one of them is elsewhere, five more people remain. In any case, when it comes to such important and crucial debates for our society, we must always try to ensure a presence. For example, this morning, like my colleague, Maria Vindevoghel, could not be present because she was busy elsewhere, my group made sure that I could replace her to participate in this so important debate. I would like you to speak about the 2% and the absence of your group in committee this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u32	You did not answer the question at all. You start with that 1.54 %. Actually, it's 1.55 %. There's been a misunderstanding about that. The military investment programme amounts to 1.55 %. That is only one hundredth of a percent more, but it is still about a few million euros. Anyway, that's not so important right now. It's about... what after? I note that as leader of the group, you say that the absence of your group was not deliberate, but simply because of circumstances. Okay, I'll take note of that. I read that on Belga, too. Strange, but okay, okay. My question is very specific, Mr Vanden Burre. Does Ecolo support the Prime Minister's statement this morning that the commitment is quite clear that 2% of GDP will be invested in Defence in 2035? Yes or no, are you behind that? Will you support the plan to make a concrete investment in Defence by 2035 at 2%?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u33	I mentioned 1.54% in today's debate on budgetary adjustment. In this context, we are putting this decision into practice. You laugh, but look at the budget tables! I understand your strategy of not turning to the facts, but what is being applied today, in the budgetary adjustment, is the decision on the STAR plan, and therefore the 1.54%. With regard to the government's decision, which was widely commented on this weekend in the press by Deputy Prime Ministers Groen and Ecolo, an agreement was reached within the Council of Ministers with a narrow intention, around 2035, to move towards a 2% increase, subject to a series of conditions. I am glad, as an environmentalist, that we were involved in the discussions and were not on the balcony, even at times alone. We were almost alone in this position at the beginning and we ripped out huge concessions and conditions, be it social, environmental, and social shield to protect our fellow citizens, even if no one can predict what will happen by 2035. I am pleased that all these conditions, six in total, are listed, black on white, in this agreement on the intention for 2035. Strongly conditioned, however, it gives future governments, regardless of majorities, the flexibility to make decisions. I am proud as an environmentalist, not only to be firm on our values, but also to participate in coalitions, with other parties, to advance important issues in our eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u34	I didn't mean to bother you with it today, but it's not unimportant. I could have done it on the committee this morning, but there was no one there. So I'm just gonna do it here. There's clearly some noise on the line about last weekend's chord. Your party has also done no good tweeting directly that the agreement is not worth more than Di Rupo's signature in 2014. We didn't make it at all at the time, and it turned out to be an empty box. That's being repeated now, and you think it's as empty a box as it was then. I take note of that. Open Vld-Kamer member Jasper Pillen suggested moving towards a concrete plan before the end of the legislature, a budgetary trajectory to reach 2% by 2035. Are you guys okay with that? Is that, according to your interpretation, what has been agreed, or not? I've heard a lot of political intentions. But you're in the government, so you're gonna have to put the cards on the table. It is also important for the Prime Minister to know what mandate he is with in Madrid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u35	Madam President, we are talking about intentions, but that is not what we hear in the majority. There, it is a question of achieving the 2% by 2035. That's not an intention. Mr Vanden Burre, have I asked you if you agree with this? You're talking about conditions. My question is about an increase in the Defence budget to 2%. You were against it, but you changed your point of view. That means that now you agree that by 2035 the budget will be increased to 2%. If that's not what you're saying, then you disagree with your own majority and all the other parties. And there's a problem. Either a problem of incomprehension between you or a problem of honesty about this agreement that came this weekend. You're talking about terms and conditions. But in fact, today, there is an agreement that costs an additional 5 billion at the Defence level. On the conditions of social and other accompaniment, there is still no agreement as yet on what we are dealing with inflation today. You didn't put your terms on it. Rather, it is the other partners of the majority who have given you intentions, but who have had you out of the 2%. It is in this sense that we must see this agreement, and not as you put it! It's quite surprising to hear you say that you're looking forward to an agreement that increases Defence's budget to 2%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u36	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre will answer, but I can reassure Mr Boukili. I just listened very carefully and you're a cunning fox. Your words are very well chosen:"Intention verse 2 %, corn les conditions, c'est noir sur blanc." So, on the one hand, there is an incredible vagueness with 'intention verse 2 %', but then suddenly 'noir sur blanc'. Can you tell me if that 2% is noir sur blanc by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u37	I will embark on a perilous exercise: at the same time respond to the PTB and the N-VA. You understand me. You're pretending you don't understand me. You have perfectly translated from French to Dutch what I said, but it was extremely clear. This reflects the decisions that have been made this weekend. We can talk about it all afternoon, but I gave you the terms and conditions. What you have achieved and the negotiations we have conducted in a hard way - I think everyone will have seen it in the press, I am not in the process of inventing it - in relation to this agreement that took place this weekend. Democraticly, I answer your question, but once again, we are here in the debate on budgetary adjustment. I think I answered you out of democratic courtesy for the parliamentary debate. It's normal, I don't have a problem with that, but we're in the budget adjustment. I propose to continue on this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u38	Mr. Vanden Burre, you tell us that you have put very strict conditions in place to accept this 2% for Defence in 2035. However, the fourth condition, which I think is the one that matters most to you, says that "Defence investments must not be made at the expense of other issues such as climate and societal challenges". That's good, but it doesn't eat bread! On the one hand, you have a precise percentage of 2%, or billions of euros, and on the other hand, a vague statement. Why didn't you ask, like the Defence budget, to set a percentage of GDP for rail investments or for climate investments? A balance with clear figures could have been included in these conditions, rather than accepting such vague conditions that do not bind anyone. Why didn't you fight in this government against the right, which wants to force you to reconsider your pacifist ideals? Why didn't you ask for precise figures for the goals to be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u39	I've already answered. I'm not going to go any further in the details. You will be able to listen again, Mr Van Hees, if you want to push your reading of the things seen since the opposition PTB. It's a good war. You push your interpretation. All right! I answered very clearly when this was not the framework for this afternoon's debate. Perhaps few of you remember that, but before I was interrupted, I was busy commenting on the deficit whose situation deteriorated by EUR 4.1 billion compared to the initial budget of EUR 16 billion. We are at 20.7 billion in deficit, which is indeed significant and needs our full attention. But as I said, there were measures in relation to the war in Ukraine that no one could foresee, and in relation to the reception of refugees. There have also been energy measures and this is the most important for us: to protect our citizens, through the social tariff for energy, by the reduction of VAT and excise duties, and the additional assistance for EUR 1.2 billion. This makes it possible to have a broad, strong and prolonged social shield last weekend. I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the decisions that were taken last weekend by the government and which I welcome. Measures are extended until the fall. (...) Does the extension of the social shield make you laugh? It's not really about it, but it's about it. I am very pleased that, at the level of the SNCB, we were able, in the context of budgetary adjustment, to compensate for the effects of inflation, in particular, and the increase in the cost of raw materials, by 82 million. It is really important to continue to guarantee a quality public mobility service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u40	Mr Van Hees, you have the floor to make arguments with real added value...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u41	Mr Vanden Burre, you mentioned SNCB. In this area, something worries me. The unions estimate that, in order to achieve the 2032 targets, an additional 4,000 railway workers would have to be hired. In this case, however, there are 2,000 fewer railway workers. Staff representatives are firing the alarm bell. Apparently, the Minister of Mobility would have succumbed to the pressure of Infrabel and SNCB by condoning these job losses on the railways. Is this not a problem for you that an Ecolo minister will accept the elimination of 2,000 jobs in the rail sector? How can the rail be better operated under these conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u42	Mr Van Hees, I thought you were interrupting me to tell me that you were satisfied that there was finally a management contract. I thought you were going to be positive. The minister is proposing two management contracts – SNCB and Infrabel – that have long been expected for commuters, SNCB staff and especially our fellow citizens who want to take public transport even more, especially the train. I'm probably a little naive. I also sat in the opposition and I could sometimes welcome positive measures. We are talking about budgetary adjustment and I am giving you the measure of 80 million in the context of budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u44	That's not true! There is absolutely no change in staff as part of this budgetary adjustment. In fact, there are no job losses announcements! There are indeed job transfers because we need more people to ensure the mobility and maintenance of the trains. Changes in staff will be announced under management contracts, but there is no termination or loss of position, as you are trying to make it appear. I'm sorry, but it won't work!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u45	Firstly, in any budgetary year, there is a multiannual aspect. Reread the general presentation, you will see that there is a multi-year aspect. Mrs. Secretary of State is here to confirm that. Moreover, and this was the front page of the newspaper L'Écho, an end of 2,000 jobs is announced by 2032! That you deny what makes the headlines of the Solidary, the PTB newspaper, still passes, but you're not going to deny what makes the headlines of L'Echo? Do you find this to be a way of developing the railway, as you welcome, that to remove 2,000 railway jobs? I understand the question is disturbing, but it's simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u46	There are no job losses! Some jobs are not replaced, to be employed elsewhere, in other functions. That is the reality of management contracts and what made the press title. There are no job cuts, redundancies or anything else. I can't be clearer. I wanted to focus part of my speech today on requests that my group wishes to support in the discussions over the coming weeks and months, and therefore not in the very long term. I wanted to repeat two important points in the eyes of the environmental group. First, beyond all the measures I welcome in terms of protection and social shielding for our citizens, especially the most disadvantaged, it is important for us – and the environmentalists have put it on the government table – that a real effort be made to reduce taxes on low and medium wages. Today, this is the best measure to increase purchasing power and to enable all our citizens to live in dignity, who now receive about the minimum wage or between the minimum wage and the median wage, i.e. between 1 500 and 3 000 euros gross per month. We want structurally to support these categories, and we ask the government to move towards a reduction in labour taxes for low and medium wages. This is the best structural measure to enable them to live in dignity. A second point comes back in the news, after being highlighted by the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). The National Bank has submitted a report, like the experts, proposing the final exit of the wage car system. For us, this system has never made much sense, but today it is clear at the climate, environmental and social levels. As pump prices are flying away, this creates an injustice between workers who have the pay car and the gasoline card (about 15%) and those who do not. It is necessary to review this system in a transitional way in order to be able to invest structurally in a mobility budget and to support all workers in a fair manner. Some colleagues, Socialists and Liberals, have announced this weekend on the television sets that they are opening up to this proposal. Thomas Dermine and Mathieu Michel, on RTL, were both open to review this system. It's time. Environmentalists will put this topic on the agenda of the discussions in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ecolo and Green share the speaking time, as good brothers and sisters. The debate has already gone many ways, but I would like to try to stay on the topic of budgetary adjustment. After all, this adjustment in itself is not a bad thing. It has been said a few times that it is about an additional deficit of EUR 4 billion. This is mainly due to external factors. It pains me a little that you refer to that as a wish list, Mr Loones. After all, what is the reason for the additional deficit? In general, four issues are concerned: measures to combat the war in Ukraine, additional provisions for exceeding the central index as a result of high inflation, commissions for possible flare-up of COOVID-19 and, above all, purchasing power measures. I am thinking here of the social tariff for energy, VAT and excise measures, measures for the least well-off in our country and for the middle class. We do so in such a way that we give back to our residents more than the more revenue the government receives from high energy prices. So that's not a wish list.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u48	Mr Vanbesien, I will not talk about the war in Ukraine, although it must hurt the pacifist wing of Green that you have agreed to increase the budget of Defence to 2%. That is a disaster for the budget, but the N-VA never complains about it, because according to the N-VA, these billions of additional expenditure on defence are no problem. It is also problematic because that commitment is being made in the framework of NATO. We also consider that this could lead to more war in the world to be a serious problem. You also spoke about the measures taken for purchasing power and energy measures. Since January, and last Thursday it has been confirmed here, Minister Van der Straeten says that no one should get richer from the energy prices, which go up in the air. However, we know those who are getting richer. On Thursday, the minister was still very enthusiastic, because a decision was finalized. I followed the news reports all week, because it was announced that the excess profits would finally be taxed. Mr Vanbesien, how come this is still not the case today? What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u49	For the purity of the debate, I will reformulate my question into a purchasing power question. That makes it easier to answer. My question was actually: have you listened to me, but I will reformulate it as a purchasing power measure. Our party has no problem with spending on Ukraine and corona. That is what I said in my speech. I say this in every speech I make in plenary and in committee. Our problem is that no structural measures are put in place against expenditure to keep it all financially viable. That was the story in my speech. In budgetary control, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the Budget really have a leverage to strike a balance, to ensure that the policy remains financially viable. I put it in a purchasing power question. Why do your party and your government seem to want to focus so much on temporary purchasing power measures, when we would better invest in structural purchasing power measures? It is possible to ensure that pensions remain affordable. One can ensure that people's purchasing power increases so that they have more money in their pockets by the end of the month. We can ensure that the people who work are rewarded for this. We also want to encourage people to work, because that really is a structural purchasing power measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u50	Mrs Merckx, it is true that Minister Van der Straeten is looking for a solution to tax these excess profits. You will be able to ask her about a state of affairs later. I am not a member of her cabinet, so I cannot answer that with the best will in the world. She's not calling me to ask permission for anything. She's working on a system right now. At the moment there is nothing, but as soon as there is a decision, it will come to Parliament with it. Mr Loones, I fully agree with you on making purchasing power measures structural, but we have been in crisis mode for two years. As a result, we are forced to work with temporary measures that we want to put out as soon as possible. We need to work towards structural solutions and structural labour market reforms in order to activate more people. I agree with you that we should try to get inactive people to work. As soon as we get out of crisis mode, we need to make these reforms structural. The same applies when you say that people have to earn more of their wages net. That is a structural purchasing power measure. I shall come back to that later in my speech. That requires fiscal reform and it is on the agenda, but it is not there today. My speech therefore focuses on the current budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u51	If that is your answer, then the framing may stop that the N-VA is against measures to help people in this crisis. Then leave that kind of talk out of your speeches. That applies to all members of the majority. You say it's on the agenda. Don't you listen to what we're saying? I said here both last year and two years ago that certain ministers were very busy because of the corona crisis. For example, Minister Verlinden had to take very urgent measures, but a number of other ministers were less involved in the corona crisis. They could have perfectly prepared a number of things, such as labour market and pension reforms. Those are in your coalition agreement. Why don't you? Why do you say every year that it is on the agenda and that you will work on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u52	Mr Vanbesien, I would like to hear you pay lip service to an activation policy. However, I note that your government and majority are not doing anything to give the impression that you are doing some work on an activation policy. I'd love to hear you say it, but it's not gonna happen. However, I am not telling you anything new, as you know only too well. You continue to hold on to a string that is increasingly less and less in line with reality. I asked for the floor because you said we were in crisis mode. You're using that as an excuse. Behind that excuse, you are hiding out to avoid structural reform. With your majority and your government leaving you to encourage only a fraction of the large group of inactive people who could work to work. I am not talking about people who are too sick to be able to work, to which Mr Vanden Burre referred, but a lot of other groups must be able to be activated much more easily, in one way or another. Since you don't, there are a lot of vacancies left open. You can call that positive, because there are jobs open to anyone who wants to work. But we actually have too many jobs. The perverse effect of this is, if they remain open long enough, that these vacancies will disappear again, because then companies will have to choose to work less, to create less prosperity in this country. In this way, by not reforming structurally, you are actually organizing the crisis to which you refer. Mr Vanbesien, why do you continue to organise the crisis yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u53	Mr Vanbesien, I heard you say that the current temporary measures must be stopped as soon as possible. In a tweet today, your colleague Kristof Calvo says that there is fortunately a social energy tariff at present. He's absolutely right about that. The temporary extension is a good thing, but it must not end there. Mr Calvo says that this is why Green is proposing a legislative proposal to make the social energy tariff final. Our ambition is, he says, that there will be a majority for this by the end of this year. Mr Vanbesien, how do you reconcile that with your statement that these temporary measures must be stopped? For the sake of clarity, we are in favour of the social tariff. In fact, there is already a majority in Parliament for it, although I do not know whether you have already established it. The Flemish interest and also, for example, the colleagues of PVDA have always supported the extension of the social tariff. So what Mr Calvo is proposing can already be adopted today. However, this proposal does not solve the problem that our energy bill has become a second tax bill. That is the reality in this country. Your government promised to reform the energy bill. However, we have recently heard far too little about this. So my question is what remains of this fundamental and much-needed energy bill reform. The need is now enormous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u54	So, Mr Vanbesien, I have received the answer that you are waiting quietly for what will happen. However, I think there is some urgency. When countries such as the United Kingdom and Italy take measures to tax excess profits, and when the CREG and the National Bank say that it can and even recommends it to the European Commission, I do not understand why that has still not happened today. If Mrs Van der Straeten does not call you, perhaps you could call her and tell her that we want to see real deeds instead of all the big statements. The tax on over-profits must finally be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u55	Following on from my colleague, Vermeersch, I would like to give you the following. Mr Vanbesien, you are also familiar with the energy standard and the reform of the federal part of the energy bill. You know that one of the key issues for the energy standard is the comparative benchmark study of 15 May. It was delivered and delivered to the CREG. By 1 July, which is very soon, the government must be given an opinion on the competitiveness of companies and energy consumers. Do you think that, in addition to the tweet about making the social tariff permanent, further measures should be taken in the budget discussions for 2023? They're not far away anymore. Let us not lose sight of the reality of the current gas crisis. I read that Mr Putin is now also starting to take a look at Lithuania. The gas price is at least quite high. There is a tightening up of emergency plans here and there. I'm just saying things aren't over yet. Mrs van der Straeten said she would adjust the excise duty when the need arises. Well, we're waiting...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u56	Minister Van der Straeten is coming earlier, as you said. In a rather remarkable or surprising way, no PTB colleague is registered to ask him questions just now and no colleague from Vlaams Belang either. I want to make it clear, Mr. Vanbesien, that the minister will be coming soon. That colleagues do not hesitate to register if they are really interested in the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u57	Mr Loones, I interpret your question as a request to treat you with more respect. You say that we are putting you in a corner and that we claim that you do not think measures are important. However, you yourself used the word wish list. I thought that word was inappropriate for these measures. In fact, you call it important measures yourself. I've heard you say that. In general, you conduct the debates in an intellectually honest manner, with a good knowledge of the dossiers and the content. Today, however, you played more the man than the ball and I'm not just yours. I was sorry to hear that, and perhaps that would provoke such a reaction. So let us conduct the rest of the debate in an intellectually honest way. Mr Anseuw, why not continue labour market reform? A first agreement has been reached. I know this does not go far enough for you. However, there is an agreement, and that is being implemented at the moment. Whatever else the Minister will do in this legislature, we will be able to read in his policy paper for next year. However, what is now the subject of an agreement is being implemented. Mr Vermeersch, stopping temporary measures would be contrary to our call for the social tariff to be structured. That's right. I should have been a little more specific. I could have added that if it makes sense to make temporary measures structural, we will do the same. This is one of them. Mr Ravyts, it may be useful to make other measures structural as well. We will have an exchange of views and proposals on this in the coming weeks and months. Mrs Merckx, why do I have to call Mrs Van Der Straeten to tell her you have a question? Sign up, she'll be here soon, and you can ask her your question. I shall now proceed with my speech. I would like to repeat a piece of the committee's reasoning. Figures are often used selectively. That is a political issue and it is not a problem in itself. Figures are often used to underline or clarify one's own equal. Let me give you a few figures that are more optimistic for the economy, not to show that I am happy about how good our economy is but to bring some balance. A first figure is about economic resilience and a second one is about purchasing power. We have seen many reports and analyses, from the Court of Auditors, from Europe and from the National Bank. There is one common thread in all these reports, one word that comes back to every analysis and every predicted slowdown in growth. Whatever scenario is followed, all these reports emphasise the word uncertainty. There is uncertainty today about what evolution will be. The only certainty we have is that the future is uncertain. It is not for nothing that the European Union has now decided to extend the exit clause of the Stability and Growth Pact until the end of 2023. This uncertainty does not only prevail with us, but across Europe. The question is how our economy is without these disruptive events. In other words, what can we expect once their impact and most of the one-off measures that result from it have disappeared? Take the recovery of the economy in 2021. The revival after the battle that Corona had given us resulted in our country being the strongest economic climber in Europe. We read in the European Commission's report on our country's reform and stability programme: "The Belgian economy has recovered strongly thanks to strong government measures to protect businesses and jobs." The Russian invasion, resulting in high inflation, reduced consumer confidence and high energy prices, will slow the further recovery. This is not just the case with us, it is the case everywhere. Why should we not have confidence in the basic strength of our economy? There is a risk of recession. The Belgian authorities do not yet assume that, but there is a risk. The reason for this is external and that external reason will also disappear sooner or later. Why should our economy not at that time once again be the strongest climber in Europe, just as it was after the corona crisis? In addition to pessimism, therefore, I would also like to place a dose of optimism on the table, but without ignoring the reality, which, for example, was made painfully clear by the National Bank yesterday during a hearing. That is a reality, but there are also optimistic elements that can be taken into account in the debate. Secondly, the debate on purchasing power is a very important debate, which Parliament and the government have rightly been engaged in for weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u58	Mr Van Besien, I find this a very interesting discussion. The question is whether we are sufficiently sharp. We have a very open economy, we have only a few things to grip and undergo much. Are we sharp enough to be able to hang and slide our car when the international train leaves again? You are referring to a number of figures. I have two supplementary questions. Firstly, with regard to the number of investments, I refer to the spring forecast, the figures of the European Commission. These indicate that the number of public investment in Europe is rising, by 3.1 % in the euro area. They are rising in all countries, with the exception of Estonia and Tunisia, but look at Belgium. With us they also fall, in 2022 they decline by 0.1 %, while in the euro area they rise by 3.1 %. By the way, this is a change compared to the autumn forecast of more than 2%. We are the most backward of all European countries. Our public investment, with which everyone is constantly shielding, is not good compared to other European countries, according to the figures of the European Commission. Do you think that's a parameter to assess whether we're sharp enough? Secondly, productivity growth. We need to get more people to work. It's getting harder and harder. What can we do? Ensure that the labour productivity of those who are working increases. In the spring forecast, the figures of the European Commission, one can see once again that only Italy is doing worse than we are doing. The increase in productivity growth is more difficult and difficult everywhere, but much more difficult for us. Only Italy is doing worse. Isn't that also a parameter that could be used to see if we're ready to take on that economy when it hits again? The third question would be the nuance of everything, because we all know that the chance of a recession is unfortunately becoming more real. I don't want to scare you, but it doesn't look very bright, even after yesterday's hearing with the National Bank. We may be in very different situations after the summer. Then perhaps we will not only see this 4.7 billion extra expenditure, then we might be able to see other red figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u59	Mr Vanbesien, you are doing the same thing as Mr Vanden Burre, you are ignoring reality. Mr Vanden Burre did so at micro level, with the employment in West Flanders versus the employment in Hainaut. You do that at macro level with the big figures. You are right that Ukraine and Corona have a huge impact and that these conditions are exceptional, but there is a consensus among everyone who looks at the situation. I'd like to test two theories with you. Firstly, if we were to make abstraction of Ukraine and corona in the figures, the structural deficit in this country would still increase under your government. If that effect is taken out, there will be an increase in the deficit, because there will be no reforms and savings. There is consensus on this. Do you agree or deny it? Secondly, if Corona and the war in Ukraine had not taken place, Belgium would already be on the European penal bench today. You refer to European budgetary rules. As you know, Belgium has regularly escaped the penalty booth with its heels. Anyone who analyses the situation agrees that if the war in Ukraine and Corona had not taken place, we would be on the penalty booth today. Do you agree to this second statement, or do you deny it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u60	Mr Loones, I agree with the fact that public spending is very important. That is an important part of what this government wants to do. We need to make sure that this is done. I assume that Secretary of State Dermine will certainly explain this later. These investments also have a direct relationship with productivity. The more investments the government makes, especially in crisis situations, the more returns one gets and the greater the impact on productivity growth will be. You asked if productivity growth is an important parameter. I think productivity as a parameter is more important than growth. So one can be at the top with less growth, while those at the bottom make a catch-up. That is also an important capacity. I think we're still holding a good position in our country unless you contradict me. However, we need to work effectively to ensure that we maintain that good position. Mr Vermeersch, do I ignore reality? I said from the outset that I would particularly quote the positive figures as a counterweight to the negative figures that are selectively quoted. You asked me whether I agree that reforms are needed. Yes, these reforms are also described in the government agreement. I trust that we will implement that coalition agreement. For the rest, you asked a number of hypothetical questions, to which I will not answer. I will continue with my speech, which is now about the purchasing power section. By far the most efficient measure to maintain people's purchasing power is and will continue to be automatic wage indexation. Be sure that workers and workers in our neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France and Germany are all jealous of the system in our country. Ask these people if they want the Belgian system and they will all respond positively. We must cherish that and be proud of it. The automatic indexation ensures that for many people the purchasing power is not protected for everyone, although for many with a delay, but with less delay than abroad. However, purchasing power is not protected for everyone and I would therefore ask the government to identify exactly who is falling through the loopholes of the network and yet still having a negative impact on its purchasing power, despite automatic indexation. I am looking very explicitly at the middle class, at those people who are just not covered by the social energy tariff. I therefore ask the government to take any additional measures as targeted as possible, specifically aimed at those people who are effectively affected by a reduction in purchasing power and who are therefore likely to get into trouble. Not everyone needs that help. We do not need this help here, but these people do, so let us use the resources as much as possible to help these people. There is, of course, another way to increase people's purchasing power in a structural way, namely by ensuring that they have net more of their salary. This is also reflected in Europe's report, which states that taxes are high and that the tax system is largely based on labour taxation. The most important achievement that we can achieve in the short term is therefore a sound tax reform that ensures that people are left with more of their salary and that the high capital is better and more taxed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u61	Mr Vanbesien, I told you in the coffee room that I would like to ask you two more questions which are important and which are also linked to the budget. You are talking about uncertainty and explaining that Ukraine is one of the factors that will further derail the budget. When you talk about uncertainty, Ukraine is above the debate, the economy and the resurrection in a number of months or years. It's about peace and security on our continent. Prosperity and well-being can only be created in a peaceful and secure context. You and your party face a huge responsibility for that peace and security and for providing an answer to the citizens' insecurity. This uncertainty can only be removed if your party sets a realistic course. Mrs De Sutter has a realistic vision. I was therefore surprised, after all her interviews last week, that the agreement on the defence budget of 2% of GDP was put under pressure by Ecolo for a certain investment in peace and security over the next 11 years. Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre does not want your party to invest 2% of GDP in Defense by 2035. We don't know Ecolo's point of view yet. That is also a certainty to be offered. What exactly is your position? Do you want a concrete plan to invest 2% of GDP in Defence by 2035, in addition to the STAR plan until 2030, on which the committee will vote next week? In this budgetary control, a total of EUR 680 million has already been entered for asylum reception, a record budget. I have been quite triggered by a number of statements made by your party chairman and Mrs De Sutter over the last seven days. I quote Mrs De Sutter: 'I hope the Secretary of State will listen to our proposals'. For the sake of clarity, she is talking about Mr Mahdi's successor. So I note that Green and Ecolo feel that this Secretary of State is not listening to their proposals. A second quote comes from your new president, Mr Jeremie Vaneeckhout: "Sammy Mahdi's asylum policy is unacceptable. Every day he is convicted because people have to sleep on the street." 'Unacceptable', no one even said that about my policy in the then government. I've had a lot of experience with that. So I can say something about that. Mr Vanbesien, do you support these statements? Do you think Mr Mahdi is not listening to your proposals? Do you think Mr Mahdi's policy is unacceptable? Mr. Mahdi is waving off. I'm going to have a debate with him the last time. I'm really looking forward to it. Mr Mahdi has started with eight promises. Promise 1: respect for international law. He made one of those videos you remember it was a bit controversial. Promise 4: no chaos in the shelter. We've been 21 months. Respect for international law, Eva to the rescue. Is respect for international law respected? Do you think that Mr Mahdi will respect international law if he is sentenced ten times a day, a thousand times this year? With regard to the promise of no chaos in the shelter, do you think there is no chaos in the asylum shelter? There's never been so many fights, sexual assaults and suicides. If you do not think there is chaos in the asylum shelter, I would like to hear some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u62	Mr Francken, I thought your two questions weren't coming anymore, but they got to the gong, just in time. The first question concerns the 2% for Defence by 2035. I understand you want to drag me into that discussion. However, you know that every word matters. That is why I will leave it to my colleagues who follow that file specifically. My colleagues will be here shortly, and you can have the discussion with them. Mr Vanden Burre has already replied very clearly. By the way, I have seen that you are also registered for discussion with Minister Dedonder. There is no doubt that this issue will continue to be discussed frequently. It is precisely because words matter that I will not comment on them myself, but I will leave that to the people who know the exact terms, because it is delicate and you know it. You don't need me to reveal that these balances are delicate. As far as Fedasil is concerned, budgets have risen seriously and now on the high side. You are asking me to respond to statements made by Minister De Sutter and my party chairman. You are quoting them as if they were calling Mr Mahdi's policy unacceptable and asking me if I would name it as such. No, I wouldn't say that. I would not say that Mr Mahdi's policy is unacceptable. What is unacceptable is these two things. Firstly, there is respect for justice. There have indeed been a lot of convictions. We need to change something about that, otherwise that is unacceptable. Secondly, there is the chaos of the people who have to sleep on the streets. That is also unacceptable. I call upon Secretary of State Mahdi and his successor to resolve and address these unacceptable cases. However, I do not call this policy unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u63	I am eagerly looking forward to the debate that will follow between Mr Francken and Secretary of State Mahdi, Madam President. I would like to say two more things. Firstly, we in the European Parliament approved a government agreement. That was always the guidance of Secretary of State Mahdi and will still guide his successor. As far as respect for justice is concerned, this must always be done in a state of law, especially by politicians. However, the Belgian authorities also have the right to appeal against decisions with which they disagree. It always was, and it always will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u64	It is in itself an interesting debate. When you say you're looking at the coalition agreement, I find it odd that the coalition agreement has been violated every day for eight or ten months. It says there wouldn't be any people sleeping on the street. So it is not a recent problem that the successor should look at. It's been building up for months. Mr Mahdi is also right to appeal against periodic penalty payments. In fact, I think he should do that in principle. However, the DVZ does not appeal against the case before the labour court. So that has to be done. There is an appeal against the penalty payment of the centre in Spa, in Wallonia and against the principle of non-housing with a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 per day, with a maximum of EUR 100,000 already reached months ago. However, there is no appeal against the daily convictions by the labour court. The Court has now even asked the Brussels District Court to conduct a criminal investigation into serious violations of international and European law. There is no appeal against that at the moment, not to my knowledge. I like to hear it. So I think it's weird that you guys tolerate that. Let us be honest: if I had been in such a situation, you would not have done so for a day. Mr De Vriendt would have shouted murder and fire here if the previous government had piled up a thousand convictions. You're talking about intellectual honesty. I'd like you to be intellectually honest. This situation is completely derailed, and you've been looking at it for months. Agreed, your Member of Parliament has been calling the alarm for months and has perhaps already put forward ten proposals, of which I have not yet seen one taken over. That is probably why Mrs De Sutter also says that 'the next hopefully will listen to us'. So be intellectually honest! This is a case of two sizes and two weights. This government would do things differently. It would respect international law, which, however, is violated every day. She would ensure that there was no chaos in the shelter, while there has never been so much chaos in the asylum shelter before in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u65	Okay, one last word. Intellectually honest? Then be it. I have just said that these two things are unacceptable to me. They need to be dealt with. I have given you the right to do so, and that will be dealt with. We'll discuss the details tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u66	Madam President, I would like to repeat the very curious speech made by Mr Verherstraeten. Mr Verherstraeten, you say that the declaration of government is the guiding principle to which you adhere. Then why did you last Friday...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u67	Mrs Dillen, the questions should be addressed to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u68	Then I shall put the question at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u69	We are facing a particularly difficult exercise. Humility in the face of this situation, whether in opposition or in the majority, or whether one is a more or less neutral observer, is something that needs to be done. The figures are particularly impressive: 26 billion deficits for all Belgian public administrations, all levels of power combined, i.e. for the "Belgium house". It should be remembered that in order to cope with the crisis of the covid-19, once again at all levels of power, it was necessary to spend EUR 36 billion to help households, businesses, the cultural or sports sector, to support temporary unemployment, the self-employed, in short, all those who needed to be helped. So this deficit does not come from anywhere but, at the same time, we cannot say that exogenous events have helped us, far from it. After the health crisis, there were floods in Wallonia, which had a huge impact on a number of public authorities, which also had an impact on the nominal and structural deficit of the Belgian house. But there is also the war in Ukraine, and its impact on the international context, with a surge in inflation unprecedented for several decades. It recalls in our country the dark years in terms of snowball effect, over-indebtedness and extremely difficult deficit to fill. The challenge before us is, of course, to be able to move beyond this adjustment, while at the same time looking at a real budgetary strategy that involves the European level. No one would understand that Europe continues to impose a straitjacket which, in any case, is untenable in view of the increase in the indebtedness of most European countries and the widening of the deficits of almost all European countries, although some are doing better than others. At the same time, we must take the right options, in order to avoid any bad economic policy leading to an increase in difficulties, even though we must be able, at a time when every euro of public money counts, to ensure that there is both economic efficiency and social justice in order to avoid an increase in insecurity in our country, as in other European countries. This is ultimately the quadrature of the circle. How can we reproject ourselves in a fiscal trajectory that can, in the medium term, in the long term, and as soon as possible, return to balance - because any other option would lead to unsustainable pressure on social security and public services, which no one wants - and at the same time avoid a policy of austerity that would lead to a form of social asphyxiation that would not be conducive to the revival of the economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u70	Mr Laaouej, you say that we must move towards balance in the long term. As you know, the Secretary of State has set himself the goal of achieving a deficit of 3% by 2024. Are you okay with that? Do you agree that this government, and the Secretary of State is the spokesman for the budget, is aiming at 3%? When do you want that équilibre to achieve that balance? What deadline do you propose for a balance? Can you stick to that for a year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u71	As far as the government is concerned, I am sticking to the agreements made within the government and I am not going to dwell here on the speculations of each other. I'm sticking to the government agreements. As far as the fiscal trajectory is concerned, it's pretty difficult like that. I am not going to give time here that would not be necessary for polemics that do not make much sense. I continue my presentation, Madam President, to tell you that despite this, the government is keeping the course by trying, on the one hand, to avoid austerity policy by clear cuts that too often characterized previous legislatures at a time when we were not in power. I want to say that, of course. On the other hand, the government is trying not to add difficulties to our fellow citizens, and on the contrary, to take steps to enable them to cope with the cost of living. We will of course hear here or there that this is insufficient. It will always be insufficient. If there were only one poor in Belgium, it would be a poor one too much. At the same time, however, we are trying, in one way or another, to find the right balance between measures targeted at purchasing power, which we want to be as effective as possible, and at the same time to avoid increasing taxation, for example, as we have seen all too often in the past, especially during the previous legislature. What is the fundamental issue? It is also to be able to send a message to our fellow citizens, to tell them that we are at their side, telling them that there must be trust between the public authorities and a population of which we know how much it is waiting for support from the government, and not from the federal government, by the way, but from all those who are in charge of executive responsibilities. It is enough to see the demands which are made on a daily basis to the local authorities, but also to the Regions, the Communities, and of course also, at the level of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u72	Mr Laaouej, you are talking about the tax increases of the previous government and we are thinking in particular of the increase in VAT on electricity under the tax shift. VAT was actually raised to 21%. I've heard you say recently that it was a big PS victory to rip off 6% VAT on electricity. There's only one thing I'm surprised about. Here, last December, you made a long explanation to the PTB to explain to us that 6% VAT on electricity was a good misconception. If you want, I can read the transcript again. Explain to me why sometimes you think it's a great idea, and that it's your victory to rip off 6% VAT on electricity, and why at other times it's a very bad idea that will benefit the richest. Depending on what this happens? Would you be for odd months and for even months? Can you explain to me your logic in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u73	Mr Van Hees, first of all, I would like to thank you for reminding us that it was under the Di Rupo government that VAT on electricity was reduced. Thank you for allowing me to call him back. Then I don't know if it's in your Saturday morning seminars that you're taught the techniques of manipulation. Obviously, they are bearing fruit. We can read the transcripts again, indeed. In the reports, you will read - one of your tweets reminds us and that is very interesting - that I repeat that a reduction in VAT on gas and electricity is a necessary thing because they are essential products. Moreover, I am pleased that the current government has decided to follow the PS proposal and to reduce VAT on gas and electricity. At the same time, if you want to give additional support to low and middle income, you have to accompany it with an energy check. That's what I said in our last debates. That's what I'm saying again today. A reduction in VAT on gas and electricity also allows for a "bonus", if I may say so, for high incomes. Therefore, if we want a more redistributive measure, a reduction in VAT and an energy check must be combined. That's exactly what we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u74	Madam President, I am not going to argue any more, but the next time the PTB organises manipulation seminars, he will invite Mr Laaouej to teach us all his knowledge in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u75	I think, alas, I don't have much to teach you, Mr. Van Hees. That being the case, you are going through a staggeringly effective school for those who are a little familiar with history and, in particular, the ability you had to transvestite reality. In fact, it turns out that at some point in history, you were arguing with each other about who was most loyal to the revolution, which sometimes led you to ostracize some of your communist congeners, but that is another story. Madam President, I will try to continue. I imagine that what the citizens of us expect is to know what we are doing for them and not necessarily to feed polemics that have absolutely no meaning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u76	Mr Laaouej, I wasn't going to react, but when you say things that way, I can't help it. You're talking about manipulators on the VAT issue, but I was here when you opposed my colleague about the fact that the VAT measure was a bad idea. We can get you the video and the reports. You argued about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u77	What's bothering you is that we got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u78	Mr. Laaouej, let me finish! Your Secretary of State for Recovery was in front of me in a television debate. He told me that I wanted to favor the rich and their pool with 6% VAT and today all this has disappeared and we would be the manipulators? You are, however, captivated, Mr. Laaouej, to treat us like this, while you say A+B without eyebrowing! It's still amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u79	Madam President, everyone will have noticed that, from the beginning, the PTB attacks the Ecolos and the PS. It is true that it is of great interest to those who look at us... What bothers you is that we lowered the VAT on electricity at the time of the Di Rupo government and that we lowered it on gas and electricity under the De Croo government, and so we got that measure. You're stuck in the blabla!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u80	Under the previous legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u81	No, under the Di Rupo government. You refuse to go into government, you stay in the speech. We're in action. You're in the denunciation, and nothing more! That's what's bothering you. Rather than concentrating your energy in your attacks on us, rejoice for the people of the results we are gratifying! But what interests you is the little politician politics to look at you in the mirror. I maintain that you are manipulators. We can repeat the whole debate that we have had here: not only did I say that VAT should be reduced, but above all that this measure should be accompanied by an energy check to give smaller incomes more than high incomes, because simply reducing VAT on gas and electricity gives them more than they do. We added an energy check. That's what embarrasses you. Your record is zero, while we are concrete! I am not here, Madam President, to fuel a controversy with the PTB, since you see that what obsessed with its members is the videos. Basically, that's not what I'm interested in. Madam President, I will try to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u82	Mr Laaouej, for the factuality of this debate, it is interesting to review the plenary session on 21 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u83	This is an intelligent remark, which changes what I have just heard from the PTB! Thank you, Mr Loones! Let's go look at the transcripts. I don't have a problem with that. I know you have a problem with the story in general, but I didn't know it was with the story too. Madam Chair, I will try to continue my presentation. Strengthening health care and public services is also part of the purchasing power package. That is why the budgetary adjustment we are discussing today must not obscure the fact that one of the first measures taken by the government was structural refinancing of health care, it is important to recall. As our colleagues in the Ecolo Group have done, I would also like to recall our priorities for the coming months. We must continue to invest in public services, unlike the revenues that are given to us by some who would like to make the same mistakes that they have made to the country in the past. For the rest, I want to engage in a discussion with some colleagues who were part of the former government. You explain that, in order to meet the challenge of economic recovery, we must take back the revenues of the past. Mr Loones, I am speaking directly to you: you have made a €9 billion shift tax, with about 6 billion reductions in social contributions and income tax reductions. I would point out that, in order to finance the reduction in income taxes, you have increased the taxes on consumption, the excise duties that are so much discussed. You have also increased the VAT on electricity. And, on the other hand, you didn't fund your tax shift. Much of our problems result from this. The National Bank asserts that for more than €6 billion, your tax shift was not financed. In addition, your reductions in social contributions have not created the jobs you thought you could, by what magic I don't know, create. These were also the findings of both the National Bank and the University of Ghent or the KU Leuven. What I want to say, through this little reminder, is that if we want to support the recovery or to achieve a revival, we must simply remember that an economy is working on two legs. Of course, not all companies are housed in the same brand. That is why the rhetoric of the FEB averages has absolutely no meaning. We know that before the covid crisis, there were increasing profits in most sectors. We know that after the covid crisis, it was observed that some companies, some sectors, were better off than others. That is why we must not have homogeneous policies but policies that are targeted and that make it possible to be effective. It is therefore most certainly necessary to involve those who have margins and to support those who, on the contrary, are experiencing difficulties, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. And, on the other hand, it would be a historical mistake to exert pressure on wages through these inepties, coming from the employer bench, a new index jump or automatic non-indexing. In the same way, I believe it would be useful to rethink the wage issue so that we can also restore oxygen to our households. That is what we say at the PS level, and fortunately we are followed by others. It would indeed be a component of the recovery of the economy. The triptych would be incomplete if it did not add the need for a public investment policy that would also support growth. We know how the return effects of public investment, especially when they allow for high added value but also an overall improvement in the quality of our infrastructure and our economic fabric, are beneficial to the economy. Therefore, – and this is the message that economists are delivering – there is no reason to oppose support for supply in a targeted way, support for businesses that need it, and support for households at wage, tax, health care and public service level. Another element seems important to me as well. We know that the fight here is extremely difficult, since it is a fight we are fighting in government and Parliament. We know that some points of view still need to be reconciled, because in fact, some ideological postures prevent a rational debate. There is an imperative need to refinance our state. We're not gonna make it if we don't think about expanding our tax bases. You know our creed. For a very large number of years, there have been a number of bliss in our tax system, which in fact characterizes us negatively at European level. Some proceeds from speculation do not contribute to anything. On the other hand, there are real challenges in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime. Financial assets that have been raised exponentially, precisely because of the lack of taxation on financial gains, could usefully be used here too. That is what we are advocating: to have a real tax reform that will enable us to support low and medium incomes, while strengthening our public finances by making use of certain income derived from speculation and major financial assets, while fighting financial crime more effectively. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, I hope you have listened carefully to Mr Laaouej's answer to my question on the objective to which you are entitled in 2024, namely the deficit of 3%. Mr Laaouej then spoke about des spéculations de l'un ou de l'autre. That's how he named that objective. Mr Laaouej, there is indeed a need for fiscal reform, but you are not talking about the reforms of your own ministers. It is a coincidence that the Secretary of State has recently given two interesting interviews, in Het Laatste Nieuws and last weekend in L'Echo, in which she always learns against your ministers. In Het Laatste Nieuws she said that she would like to shake ministers Lalieux and Dermagne and in L'Echo she said the following about Minister Dermagne: "Faire des grandes déclarations et des promesses, cela ne suffit pas." Over minister Lalieux zei zij het volgende: "The sustainability of the system must be a concern, as foreseen in the government agreement, and at this level I see nothing at all." Have you read these articles, Mr Laaouej, and, as far as Minister Dermagne is concerned, should there be a follow-up to the work deal? Should there be further reform of the labour market? As far as Minister Lalieux is concerned, when should the pension reform for the PS come into Parliament, because we have yet to see anything about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u85	I could say that I am doing this for the sake of the factual correctness of the debate, but in fact I have to refute the lie every time. Every budget debate is the same. It is always said that the tax shift has struck a huge budgetary gap. That is factually incorrect. Firstly, the previous government thought it wise to lower taxes. In this country, a country that is champion of tax burden, one could argue that this might have been a sensible idea. Reducing taxes was a choice that we made very consciously. Who took advantage of that? The people who work and especially the people with low wages and middle incomes. Many studies confirm that their purchasing power has increased in particular. Secondly, a number of years after the measure was taken, a study was made by the National Bank, which I have here. The study says that the tax shift bill is correct, although in 2021. That was, of course, also the ambition to implement a structural path and to achieve a change in taxation. Meanwhile, the bill is right because the tax shift has led to more people getting paid, which means fewer people getting benefits. More people have started to work, building fiscal capacity. You cannot agree with me, but you will de facto say that the National Bank is made up of fools, because I do nothing more than quote from their reports which I have before me here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u86	Mr Loones, you have not reduced taxes. You reduced the income tax and you increased the taxes on consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u87	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u88	You made up for it. You cut the income tax and you increased the taxes on consumption. You have replaced a progressive tax with an anti-distributive tax. So, in terms of tax justice, you deserve a zero point. On the other hand, you say that you have reduced social contributions and you seem to claim that reducing them is reducing taxes. In this regard, we will have a divergence that will never be resolved. In our view, social contributions are not a tax, it is part of the employment contract which is a contract of exchange between work provided, on the one hand, and wages and social protections, on the other hand, which is precisely financed by social contributions. When you reduce these, you get social security funding. And in doing so, you touch the workers, either immediately through a de-financing of their health care, or at a later point in time, when they have their pension, or even when they lose their work through their unemployment insurance. So you won't have us trying to make us believe that reducing social contributions is a tax reduction. It's not the same thing! We mustn't say we cut taxes. For the rest, I refer you to the reports of the National Bank that were produced at the time you adopted your measure by making it appear that it was budget neutral. Later, you had to admit that in reality, you were counting on the feedback effects. The National Bank has said so at least twice. This is also the case for university professors. Moreover, over the period of the legislature, the ratio between the budget cost and the number of jobs created was also identified, again by neutral observers, in this case by academics, as being unimpressive or not effective. If you want to rewrite the story – apparently, the PTB is emulating – it is your freedom. But as far as I'm concerned, I'm sticking to these official sources. In the first fruits you use, you say that, in fact, the task shift did not excavate the deficit since you left a slight bonus when you left the government. The question is what would have been the bonus if you had funded your tax shift. That is the question that must be asked because, at the moment you leave the government, there is no covid. There is no war in Ukraine and there is not a whole range of external factors, including the inflaming push. So, clearly, we must not do diachronism, Mr. Loones. It is not a question of saying: "The proof that the tax shift has been effective in the budget is that we have left accounts in balance." The question is what would have been the accounts if the tax shift had been better funded and if you hadn't made a whole series of tragic mistakes for our public finances – I would remind you that you had the Finance portfolio at the time – including some choices of tax systems or a corporate tax reform that everyone today considers not to be properly funded. This means that with the reduction of the ISOC rate to 25 %, for which you claimed to come with funding that the Court of Auditors itself had identified as lame, you also, because of what you presented to us as figures, contributed, perhaps not to a widening of the deficit at the time you left, but in any case to a reduction in the bonus that we could have hoped for and which would have been very useful to us in dealing with the health, financial and economic crises that we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u89	Firstly, I find it remarkable that you call a reduction in the tax on SMEs, which was the de facto tax shift, a tragedy. That is special, because we have fought hard for lower corporate tax, in particular and in a first phase for SMEs. Secondly, in general, you are talking about the tax shift of the previous government as if it were the greatest tragedy ever. However, you have not yet taken any action in this House to reverse that tax shift. That is not so bad, because otherwise you would have taken parliamentary initiatives to raise the tax burden on SMEs again and to restore the additional purchasing power they had gained through the tax shift from the pockets of the people. We have already debated the question of financing. I refer once again to the National Bank of Belgium, which says it was financed. Even when we left the government, we thought not only of the 0.8 percent deficit at the time, but also of the future. After all, the job deal was ready, it could be voted on. The budgetary impact would be a number of billions. My party, with then MEP Jan Spooren, has even worked out a complement to the job deal completely. The legislative work is ready and has been submitted to the various committees of this Parliament. According to the financial experts' calculations, their budgetary impact would be close to EUR 5 billion. That would be a real measure to achieve an employment rate of 80 %, which you claim to achieve, while the Planning Bureau calculates that it will be 72.3 % in 2027. So you'll never get 80 % in 2030. Our tax shift in the previous government has provided more than 200,000 extra jobs. It was indeed funded and has ensured that people's purchasing power has increased and that the tax burden, including on SMEs, has fallen phenomenally. The Minister of Finance has taken a good initiative, namely the reduction of the Special Contribution to Social Security. I wish the Minister every success in pursuing this plan. I read in L'Echo today that this will be your focus in the budgetary discussions this autumn. If that's not true, the MR has redistributed misinformation. In any case, I wish you every success, because it is in line with what we did in the previous legislature. We have made sure that purchasing power ends up with the people who work. That is where we fully support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u90	Monsieur Laaouej, you have not answered my questions. I will therefore briefly repeat them. You rightly referred to the tax reform in your intervention. However, you did not mention the important reforms by your own ministers in all languages. The Secretary of State has given several interviews in which she made a statement to your ministers Lalieux and Dermagne. Have you read those articles? How do you respond to that? As far as Minister Dermagne is concerned, should there be a follow-up to the working deal for the PS? When should the pension reform pass before the PS in parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u91	Mr Loones, if I'm going to go after you a little bit, it's because I didn't appreciate your lack of humility in the gallery, when you compared the government to a circus and used the word "clown." That is why I refer you to your own recent past. I am talking about dramatic choices that have been made, with consequences that are still enormous today. The first step that was taken by your Minister of Finance was the tax privilege for diamond dealers. What a bad signal! Then you undertook a staggering reform of the secret commissions, which were a fatal deterrent to fight against certain particularly serious mechanisms of fraud with money that leaves certain economic entities for no one knows where. As a result of this reform, this instrument is no longer a deterrent. You presented us with a corporate tax reform with a EUR 5 billion budget drive to claim that it was financed, whereas this was not true because the low interest rates of notional interest that were supposed to offset the budgetary cost of the rate drop could decrease. You have not listened to us, even if the budgetary impact could be enormous. These were very bad choices! I am not against a tax reform for companies, far from it. I think more needs to be done for SMEs. But we have a responsibility for public finances. When you don't compensate for certain tax cuts, it creates immediate pressure on social security or health care, but it doesn't seem to worry you too much. These are the tragic choices I was talking about. We are in favour of tax reform, but we need to think about how to undertake it, how to compensate it, with what temporality, who is losing and who is winning. For the rest, I believe that non-targeted linear reductions are mostly a boon effect. I forgot to mention the index jump that you and your group justified in the gallery by saying that it was the panacea, that it was what had to be done to make our businesses more competitive. It has been shown that the decrease in the wage bill corresponds to an increase in profits and dividends. That is the result of your policy! That is why the question of wage, fiscal and social justice must also be able to agree on a temporality that goes beyond a legislature and certain cycles that are affected by exogenous economic shocks. For example, in the face of the 26 billion deficits that we are facing, how scandalous is it to ask for an effort from those who, over the last ten years, have seen their profits and dividends increase and have gained added value? Can't we find ourselves on this? That's all I'm telling you. It is not a question of systematically relaying the whims of certain economic interests which still want to attack the large mass of workers, by touching on automatic indexing or by advocating austerity policies in the field of health care. It is there, Mr Loones, that we differ fundamentally. If I asked you, it was because I found that your attitude was unacceptable with respect to the government. We may not agree – and many here are not – but there is a minimum of respect to be demonstrated in the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u92	Mr Laaouej, I do not think you listened very carefully to my speech, but you should listen to it later. I would now like to make two points. I am somewhat jealous of you because of all the comments you can give on Johan Van Overtveldt. I can perfectly imagine that you disagree with Mr Van Overtveldt. The fact that a socialist does not agree with the policy we have pursued does not set me back. I am jealous that you can criticize all these things, because they prove what we have effectively achieved in the field, what we have all changed, how we have reduced taxes, how we have dealt with people's purchasing power, how we have brought the budget back. You can criticise all these measures, because you are a socialist and we are not. However, you can only criticise us because we have all achieved that. I am jealous, because I would also like to comment on your ministers. I would like to be able to comment on labour market reform or pension reform, but we cannot, because these reforms are not going to happen. Minister Lalieux should have proposed her pension reform in September 2021, so that we could already have seen a start of budgetary impact in the current budgetary control. However, I cannot comment on the PS plans, because you are not coming up with any reform. The only thing you are doing is taking temporary measures with additional expenditure, making the budget hugely burdensome, already with a deficit of EUR 20.7 billion. In the meantime, people's purchasing power has not improved structurally. Purchasing power has only been dealt with temporarily, while people really desire and hope that the government gets up. The Minister for Work and the Minister for Pensions must not only guarantee that people will, hopefully, have a little better today, but also tomorrow. In the meantime, the budget must be structurally in order. However, there are no proposals in this respect. I do not even blame you for that, because I understand that you do not want to carry out reforms. We do, however, want to do so. That is the fundamental problem. That is why I said earlier in my speech that as long as we are in the Belgian carcan, it will always be mediocre. Mr Laaouej, if you do what you like in your own region, we have absolutely no problem with that. Do so, but let us at last carry out the reforms we want. If your Minister of Work does not wish to reform, I suggest that he give his powers to the Flemish Minister of Work. If your Minister of Pensions does not finally present plans to reassure people that pensions are social, certain and guaranteed, then I suggest that she give us her powers. The people are waiting for that certainty, but you will not give it to them. You just keep people on a leash with short-term measures that help people in emergencies. We have no problem with this happening, but we do have a fundamental problem with you not paying attention to the structural measures that people need. I would very much like to comment on your policy, Mr Laaouej, but it is non-existent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u93	Mr Laaouej, I heard you closing with the word respect. However, I note that you are not addressing me in a democratic debate. So you do not even bring the respect to answer our legitimate questions about policy. By the way, you are also the person who roared from the committee when an amendment from me and Flemish Interest was approved with the agreement of the Minister of Finance. So you don't have to teach us respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u94	Mr Loones, I have known you with a slightly higher level of intervention. At some point, you just need to calm down and return to rationality, not to sue for intent and avoid slogans. That's all I'm offering. Pension reform, a difficult subject if any, is being discussed within the government. You can also question and question the Minister of Pensions who will explain it to you in committee or plenary. You have every opportunity to question the government. But there are some discussions with the government, and for the rest, everyone makes their positions known. There are differences in a government with different sensitivities. It's no secret. For the rest, you say we spend the money with temporary measures. But what a contempt for the people who needed this public support! The Governor of the National Bank himself said that it was necessary to do so. Whether it is support for businesses, SMEs, with corona bonuses in the regions, but also support in terms of cash facilities for social contributions, VAT, professional discount, we have done so. Are you saying that we have taken temporary measures, things that are useless? Support for people's purchasing power, the oil check that we may be voting for today or tomorrow? The energy check, the reduction of VAT? Is that all that is not important because not structural? But we are facing a crisis of expensive life and purchasing power that is colossal! People are suffering, Mr. Loones. Is that the N-VA's speech, saying that all this is not important and that what we want is structural reforms? Of course, everyone wants structural reforms, as long as they are socially fair, that they do not allow some to gain more benefits by leaving others at the side of the road. As long as they are effective, what your tax shift has not been with your linear reductions. We want recovery, structural reforms, but not your sauce. Not by serving the economic interests of the most powerful, who have nothing to do with those who, in our country, are at the edge of the road. That's the difference between you and us. These are not just structural reforms. These are just structural reforms. That's the difference between you and us, Mr. Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u95	Mr Laaouej, don't get excited. Don't talk in slogans, keep it respectful. You really don't have to twist my words. I have already said three times this afternoon that temporary interventions are absolutely necessary and that the problem is not in these temporary interventions, but in the fact that they are not compensated by structural measures. However, we can ensure that they can be financed, not only today but also tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. In this way, our social security can also remain social and secure. So speaking in slogans is absolutely not necessary. But if I were to answer you, what contempt for all those people who work and pay their taxes! What a contempt! Only giving financial support to the people who need it, where is the respect for the people who have to pay your invoices? Where is your respect for the people who are getting up early day in, day out, going out to work, doing their best, and perhaps even seeing that it would be more profitable not to go to work and get benefits but not to do so because they want to be useful and shape their future? Quel mépris! It is they who have to pay your invoices! Once again, Mr Laaouej, if you are in favour of this policy, I have no problem with it as long as you do it in your own region. Let us make our own choices and finance things our way. No hard feelings!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u96	Madam President, I would like to respond to the remarks made by Mr Laaouej, who replied to Mr Loones that this government had done a lot in favour of people's purchasing power. Some measures have been taken, of course, but far from what is necessary for them. If we take the question of fuel, people who are going to work pay crazy amounts. The price of fuel is 2.18 euros today! What did you do? It took five months for this government to take action on fuel, which was already overtaken five days later due to higher fuel prices. And since then, you haven't done anything! You let the price of fuel continue to rise. People finally have to pay to go to work. People don't get away with it. And what are you doing? This government is doing nothing! As far as wages are concerned, let us not talk about it, since it was a socialist minister who signed the wage freeze order under the 1996 law, which was already the work of Elio Di Rupo. And what do they say? That it was for competitiveness! Analysis of the figures shows that wage developments in Belgium are 4% lower than in the three neighbouring countries. In fact, this law has lowered wages and continues to do so. And it's a socialist minister who does it! You often talk about wage indexation, but even at this level, fuel is not included in the index products and it is realized that real wages over the last two years have decreased by 2%. The situation is catastrophic! And this government is taking mini measures, too late, temporary and totally inadequate. Also, do not come to say that this government has saved people's lives and their purchasing power. The situation is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u97	I already said it, but what did you bring? What have you done in practice to improve people's daily lives? Nothing! Nada! You have no record. All you do is expose and look in the mirror. We denounce, we denounce, but there is nothing concrete. For our part, we do not get everything we want, but we fight! We're going to the government. Is there anything else to do? Certainly. We got the extended social rate, so much the better. We got it, not you! We Socialists have obtained a reduction in VAT on gas and electricity. Not you, the PTB! We, the PS, got an energy check. Not you! Now we got a 200-euro oil check. We have refinanced social security. It's not you, it's not the PTB, it's us! We have absolutely no lessons to learn from the PTB. Instead of spending your time attacking left-wing parties, rejoice at the gains we get. We never hear you. Keep fighting for what you want and continue supporting positive actions when they are socially right, rather than continuing to attack the left. Not only are you useless, but you also spend your time criticizing. We have to stop. You're still not going to go on like this for another 20 years. You're not bringing anything. You're no use. That is the problem. For the rest, I would like to continue to engage with the PTB, but perhaps we could do so on a television set in my opinion. There may be a bit of audimat, but here objectively, you are in sterile controversy. We don't get everything we want. We're the first to recognize him. There's a problem with the fuel and we want the price freeze, so we're fighting. It's not easy because we are certainly, perhaps with others, the only ones asking for it. But we're still fighting. With regard to excise duties, there is no point in reducing taxes proportionately if prices continue to rise. We must therefore do both at the same time: lower excise duties and block prices. That is what we want, along with a series of other measures, including a real social energy tariff for the middle classes too. That's all we put on the table, but it's easier to do blablabla than to go to fight in a government. Madam President, I still propose to stop at some point, otherwise we will have hours and hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u98	Mr. Laaouej, are you leaving? No. I did not intend to intervene, but I tell you seriously and calmly: in this Parliament I still distinguish the right and your party. That said, you are showing contempt and intellectual dishonesty as a left-wing man by refusing to see that the class struggle is such in this country that we witnessed, the day before yesterday, the presence of more than 80,000 people...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u99	The unions...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u100	I'll finish, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u101	You promised to speak calmly...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u102	Recognize that the reactions are still a bit strong of coffee! I will finish by taking my time, because it is my right as a parliamentarian. So there were 80,000 people on the streets the day before yesterday. Of course, we are the first to criticize the right. However, when your party made a commitment to take on its responsibilities – since you say we stay on the balcony – you promised, not to the PTB – since you have nothing to do with it – but to your voters, Mr. Laaouej, that if you joined the government, you would guarantee the freedom of trade union delegations to ask for wage increases. You have betrayed, not the PTB, but the working class that is suffering today! As a left-wing man, you always say, "We did it." You know your social history better than I do. You've been longer than me at school, but I feel like you've been deformed instead of being trained. It is the social struggle that puts the weight on social democracy. And modestly and proudly, the PTB also kicks you so that you shoot more left! That's why, from time to time, you're making a little headway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u103	It is terrible to see the PTB group leader applaud the insults of a Member of Parliament towards another Member of Parliament, calling him intellectually dishonest... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u104	What hit me most is that the PTB group leader applauds the speech of her MP who accuses me of intellectual dishonesty and of having been deformed at school or even blames me for having been at school. Social misery, I didn't learn it in the books. I came from a family of six kids whose father worked in the coal industry. We slept three in an attic with my brothers, and my three sisters slept in another room. My mom was waiting for the family allowance so she could go shopping. When we couldn't go to the doctor, we would postpone treatment. I didn't have an indefinite wardrobe, we lived with some clothes. When there was no milk or flour, we were going to ask the neighbor. And you're here to teach me lessons by saying we're betraying the working class? This is indecent and unacceptable! Stop attacking the other left parties! Stop customizing the debate as you do! That's unworthy! For the rest, we did not amend the 1996 Act. It's the previous government. We're still fighting and putting the case on the government table. We can't do this because the balance of power is not in our favour within the government. We are happy to have the support of workers' organizations. We're gonna keep fighting. Stop customizing the debate! To imagine for a moment that there is only one socialist who, in this Parliament, can rejoice at the social misery that is taking place in our country is to insult the left. It's insulting the collective fight. Stop and now be on the side of those who want to continue to move things forward rather than divide the left and the workers' camp!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u105	I have another technical question. I find it fascinating to see the fire in Parliament, but I would like to put a technical question to Ahmed, because it is about a PS minister, namely Minister Dermagne. This morning there was a meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which included the fuel oil cheque. However, I suppose the Minister will be able to answer my question as well. The amount of the fuel oil cheque will be increased by the government from EUR 200 to EUR 225. The Minister indicated that this would be taken into account in this budgetary control by means of an amendment. I would just like to verify that this is indeed the case, so that we know what is going to be voted on later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u106	Mr Loones, I do not have the authority to do so, but we have indeed decided this weekend to increase the amount of the fuel oil cheque from EUR 200 to EUR 225. If this has been announced by the Minister in committee this morning, I assume that he will take the necessary steps to deal with it this afternoon or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u107	It's a genuine technical question, you know. I have never seen an amendment to the budget reach it in plenary. What impact does this have on the legal process? There is, of course, a difference between legislative texts and budgetary texts. However, sometimes there can be no final vote on the document as a whole because an amendment was adopted in plenary. Lawyers should find out whether this is also the case in the context of budgetary discussions. If that were the case, we want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u108	Madam President, I am a signatory to this famous amendment. This morning we discussed this famous oil check, which actually goes from 200 to 225 euros. Two amendments were tabled and voted on this morning in committee. All the parties, including the N-VA – which I thank – agreed not to ask for a second reading. The text will therefore come to plenary tomorrow and an oral report will be made by me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u109	So I understand that it is not an amendment to the budget, but a separate text to be put to the vote. That's clear, thank you. I asked because Mr Laaouej mentioned the budget cheque of EUR 200. In future, therefore, we can talk about a cheque of 225 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u110	Madam President, I would like to point out that you have two sizes and two weights. Mr Prévot may respond to Mr Loones, but Mrs Dillen cannot respond to Mr Verherstraeten. We ask that the Rules of Procedure be applied in a similar way for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u111	It's definitely not the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u112	Madam President, I have a question about how we will continue this debate. We are three hours away in a debate on budgetary control, which is being conducted as if it were a budget debate. The agreement at the Conference of Presidents was that we would not have thematic debates, because we could indicate in advance which ministers were asked questions. After three hours, I find we're doing the two here now. A lot of questions have already been asked, addressed to all possible ministers from the federal government. After the general debate, the Ministers will come back to answer the same questions. I suggest that these ministers join the general debate so that they can respond immediately. Otherwise, these questions will be better saved for later, during the thematic debates. Otherwise, we'll do the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u113	Madam President, I would like to speak quickly to support my colleague, Mrs Depraetere. I think there was a clear agreement in the Conference of Presidents: this afternoon's debate is about budgetary adjustment. I therefore ask that all colleagues in both the majority and the opposition respect this agreement. We need a little respect for our debates and for the context in which we are moving. I really want us to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u114	I fully agree that a budget debate should be on the budget. This has also largely been the case, with the exception of the defence section around Ukraine, but that was because the Minister will not be able to be present for very legitimate reasons. Those questions could therefore only be put to the relevant Members at that time. The Conference of Presidents has agreed on speaking time and so on. This can therefore be monitored as agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, after Corona, things would be put in order and the mountain of debt would be reduced, so we were promised and told by the Secretary of State. But Vladimir Putin shot that scenario to pieces, literally and figuratively. Admittedly, Mr Vanbesien, all European countries today have shortages due to corona and the war in Ukraine, but one country is failing, and that is Belgium. Our neighbouring countries have already taken the first steps to get things in order, but this government is late in making some effort. The war in Ukraine once again provides this government, as in the corona crisis, with the perfect alibi to do nothing about the dramatic financial situation of this country. The perfect alibi also to make it self-sufficient, as a government with seven parties, especially not too difficult. Are we talking about real budgetary control here? I also put the question to the Court of Auditors in committee. Technically, that is because adjustments are being made to the budget of resources, but also to the expenditure budget. Let us be honest, in reality, this budgetary control does not contain any structural measure, any reform to keep the country's finances on track and to put things in order. So there was no real control of the budget at all. It was simply decided to spend more than EUR 4 billion extra. That's how it goes with every agreement, every decision of this government. Each purple-green agreement or any purple-green decision is accompanied by additional spending. That is what we saw last weekend, with yet another cow-trading on the defence budget and, ultimately, additional money for development cooperation. This government appears to be a permanent crisis government, for which spending seems to be the only policy instrument. Our question is therefore addressed to you, Madam Secretary of State and Minister. How long will this purple-green government continue to pretend that any financial and budgetary discussion is unnecessary? How long will you continue sending purple-green invoices to future governments and future generations? Will you really wait until the international context, the rising interest rates and the rising spreads put the knife on your throat before intervention? This government doesn't seem to be able to do anything, except spend more. The government agreement involved pension reform, fiscal reform and labour market reforms. It took nine months, but the work deal that was concluded last Friday will clearly not be enough to achieve the 80% level of activity, quite the contrary. Before 21 July, the Prime Minister also wanted to conclude a large summer agreement, to prove that there is still life on his team. In the meantime, however, it has become clear that there will be no comprehensive summer agreement. It is still awaiting pension reform and fiscal reform. Minister Van Peteghem, you have made a very ambitious start on your term as Minister. You would be like a bulldozer at last tearing down the tax houses in this country, but we haven't seen anything of that to date. Your tax reform has become the Loch Ness monster of the Wetstraat. Everyone talks about it, the newspapers write about it and everyone can form an image of it, but no one has ever seen it. Occasionally a version of your tax reform pops up in the press, but then you are like the chickens to put that leaked version away as fake news. Also from Loch Ness' monster photos showed up, but they turned out to be fake afterwards, so the resemblance is striking. You promised the blueprint of your fiscal reform at the end of last year. Later that became in the first quarter of this year and in the meantime you have already postponed that period to the summer. Today we were able to read in De Tijd that only a study day will take place before the summer. The only concrete fiscal measures we have seen up to today from you and your government are the billions of euros in new taxes. The promised tax reform, but also the pension reform of the PS, is still awaited. At the start, this government profiled itself as a reform government, but now, after almost two years of non-policy, only the image of an argument government remains. Vice Prime Minister De Sutter mentioned earlier that major reforms will be difficult for this legislature. Mr Calvo even asked for a new coalition agreement. Mr Bouchez of the MR spends almost every day on each minister and party chairman of his majority. The PS did not at all wait for the work of the Erpertengroep to put on the table billions of purchasing power measures and also asked for a change to the government agreement to abolish the 1996 wage bill. A week without fundamental disagreement is not ruled for a week, which is apparently the slogan of the Croo government. Madam Secretary of State, according to an interview in Het Laatste Nieuws, you would like to shake your PS colleagues. Minister Dermagne and Minister Lalieux, according to you, we could read, finally had to go into action. The question is, of course, whether your statements impress your colleagues. Last summer, you compared yourself in interviews with Margaret Thatcher. You would be strict, you would be strict as an iron lady, but when the budget for 2022 was drawn up at the end of last year your iron demands were coldly ignored by all your colleagues. It is only getting worse: budget figures are becoming increasingly derailed and you are not getting a grip on your colleagues at all. You seem to be calling out in the desert until today. In practice, the iron lady appears to be a porcelain hand puppet, who must necessarily walk on the hand of the PS. Madam Secretary of State, you are imprisoned in a government that spends more on any agreement, which can only come up with new taxes and which does not want to reform or save at all. For the sake of clarity, Madam Secretary of State, your annoyances are also ours, but they mainly create the image of a government that hangs together with hooks and eyes. There has been a time when the liberals attached their credibility to the budget, but you lost that credibility when you entered this PS government, with a Walloon way of budgeting. Meanwhile, this country is falling completely, under your watchful eye and responsibility, into a position even worse than that of Greece. Your party, Open Vld, is also sinking into a position that is worse than ever before. That is, of course, because you and your fellow members of the public are losing all credibility. Let's take a look at your government's key figures. It's the time of the reports right now. Our children and students all get their reports in the next few days. If we were to draw up a report on all the final terms for which a government should succeed, your government's report would be downright devastating. Just about any institution that has to judge this country, your government is gonna be guided along the line. Firstly, there is the general government deficit. There used to be a debate here about a billion euro deficit more or less. In the meantime, it is no longer about a few billion euros, but we are close to a deficit of 30 billion euros for the joint government this year. This year's deficit will be bigger than in 2021, which was a full corona year. As far as the deficit is concerned, we have become the worst pupil of the class, not only of the European Union, but of all industrialised countries. Only Romania would have a larger deficit. We are also moving towards 130 % in the area of public debt. That was confirmed yesterday by the National Bank in our committee. Only Italy and Greece will do even worse in the euro area. In the present environment, with rising interest rates, that is of course murderous for future generations. Today's debts, ladies and gentlemen, are tomorrow's taxes. In addition, Belgium is well on track to have the highest expenditure of all industrialised countries. Not only do we say that, so does the IMF. As far as economic growth is concerned, the Belgian economy is also the slowest growth in the European Union this year. In the coming years, too, the country's growth is among the lowest in the euro area. Of the industrialized countries, only Italy and Japan are doing even worse. Finally, inflation in this country is almost higher than the rate still achieved by the Open Vld in the polls. Inflation in Belgium is higher than in many other European Member States. Colleagues, whatever figures or reports are being looked at, this purple-green government has not only been guided, but after the reign of Vivaldi Belgium is finally on a southern European course. Worse still, because of this purple-green government, we are doing much worse than countries like Italy and Greece. So we go further down to the tail of the club medlands and there are also important invoices coming towards us in the following years. Think of the ageing population or the necessary spending on defence in order to achieve the NATO target of 2% of GDP. Many of the investments that are absolutely necessary today require money that is not there at all. We are also on the verge of an unprecedented economic crisis, resulting from the paralysis of the economy by the corona measures and the sanctions imposed by the war in Ukraine. After this purple-green government, Belgium no longer has a single financial buffer to absorb another shock, for example a recession. Few people in this Chamber are awake from these dramatic figures, but with better figures we could of course do more today about purchasing power. With better figures we could do more to the price at the pump, on our far too expensive shopping cart, on our towering energy bill. You admitted this in so many words this weekend in your interview in L'Echo. You replied to a question about the extension of the 6% VAT on energy: "If the budgetary situation were different, I would also argue for a VAT reduction, but that cannot be done today." You admit what we are saying a long time ago. In the Netherlands, for example, an average family in October last year already received 400 euros or sometimes up to 800 euros discount. It is not long to look for an explanation for that difference between Belgium and the Netherlands. There is only one important statement, namely the budget. The Netherlands has had its accounts in order for many years now much better than Belgium. Unlike Flanders, the Netherlands does not drag a Walloon block along. Especially in Wallonia and Brussels, deficits and debts are becoming unsustainable. That's what the Flemings are paying the bill for today. That difference between the Netherlands and Flanders shows itself now that there is yet another crisis. So countries that have their figures in order can do much more for their own people. In these hard times, we must put our own people first. However, this government is doing the opposite. The reception budget for asylum seekers was already more than EUR 420 million this year and it is increasing by an additional EUR 110 million. In addition, Fedasil will receive an additional EUR 150 million via the commissions. More than 680 million has now been allocated to the asylum seekers of Fedasil. Socialist Minister Mrs Kitir also does nothing but distribute our taxpayers' money. The recent headlines are truly unimaginable. As Minister for Development Cooperation, it is throwing millions of euros through windows and doors. The headlines say: "EUR 16 million to get more Congolese to work," "Belgium is donating EUR 15 million to fund climate adaptation in poorest countries," "The government is spending half a million to warm people up for more development cooperation," "Belgium is setting aside EUR 200 million for a forest, especially in Congo," "Minister Kitir is releasing EUR 50 million for climate programme in the Sahel." She also announced that Belgium would set aside 2 million euros for the Afghans, 3.5 million euros for the Palestinians and as much as 8 million euros for the Syrians. There also went 3 million euros to India, 4 million euros to Ethiopia and 5 million euros to Yemen. I can go on like this for a while, colleagues. Secretary of State Mahdi of CD&V, responsible for Asylum, and Minister Kitir of the Socialists, responsible for Development Cooperation, distributes many millions of euros of our tax money to asylum seekers and abroad. We could read it in the press every week: four out of ten Flemings barely have enough cents to get through the month. But if something has to be done about the purchasing power of our own people, it suddenly slows down for this government, then there is no money and then it can't. The Flemish interest will continue to fight this. Our people are collectively impoverished today, without your government taking strong measures. Those many hundreds of millions of euros of our taxpayers' money should not be thrown over or distributed to foreigners, but should be returned to the hard-working Flemings. First, our people. For 23 years the Liberals have been part of the governments of this country. However, public expenditure has never been so high. There are huge expenditures and yet Belgium fails in almost all its core tasks. We have seen it here in Parliament over the last few weeks. Our pensions are among the lowest in Western Europe. Our defense is no longer able to send its own material to Ukraine, we simply have no material. In the case of justice, there is impunity and criminals are released early. The Attorney General had to come and beg in Parliament. The police are pulling the alarm bell because of the savings. They are partly regional powers, but our education is completely ruined, the waiting lists are getting longer and the quality of our roads, especially in Wallonia, is downright embarrassing. The tax burden is nowhere higher than in Belgium, according to the latest OECD ranking. In return for all the taxes we pay, we get another failing service. Our message is clear: stop tampering with the tax cents of the hardworking Fleming. Madam President, I will conclude and summarise. So this is not budgetary control worthy of that name. This government profiled itself as a reform government, but this budgetary control contains no structural measure, no reforms to put the country's finances in order. It was only decided to spend billions of euros extra. The Croo government is not only a fight government, it also has a big hole in its hand under the impulse of the PS. Often that hard-earned tax money flows from the Flemings in particular, let us be honest, let us also go to the wrong expenses, to asylum seekers from abroad, and that in times of high need among their own people. All the key figures of this government are blood red. In every report that appears, the government gets a tube all over the line. By purple-green Belgium is definitely one of the weakest and most guilty countries in Europe, and not only of Europe, but also of the industrialized countries. Belgium also no longer has any buffer for a future crisis, which, unfortunately, comes sooner than later. Meanwhile, the ruling parties seem to be waiting for us to get through the international context and will be forced to carry out painful reforms at the expense of our own people. The ruling parties play Russian roulette with future generations. It is therefore impossible for us to approve what is before us. We shall therefore vote against this budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u116	Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now, budgetary adjustments have responded to successive crises with, unfortunately, metronomic regularity. After the covid-19, the war in Ukraine and inflation, we are asked to show inventiveness and find solutions. The legitimate and essential demand for the maintenance of purchasing power must be met, while maintaining the state's finances at afloat. It's not easy. The Court of Auditors has been relatively positive about the credibility of this budgetary adjustment, but the figures are not good. We are still experiencing the impacts of the health crisis, and although the government has been able to provide the first support measures – social and complementary – we are still far from the objectives. In addition, several automatic indices of wages and increases in social benefits and pensions have taken place. These increases are necessary and will not be called into question, but they add a certain weight to public finances and to the cash flow of enterprises and SMEs. Expenditure related to unemployment amounts to almost EUR 464 million, mainly due to the temporary unemployment caused by the crisis of the Covid-19, which was extended until the end of June, following the consequences of the war, and which will continue. The rise in the key rates of the European Central Bank (ECB) further indicates that market financing capacity will be more limited in the future. We discussed it again yesterday in the Finance Committee. It was a very interesting session, but although it was reassuring from some points of view, it was worrying to others. It is therefore necessary to remain cautious and to find fair and targeted measures, while taking into account the budgetary capacity still available to deal with the current challenges: energy transition, competitiveness of our enterprises, full employment, social security, the fight against poverty, defence and security. We don't need austerity, but we need rigour. The Secretary of State is working on it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u117	Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State to ask you a question. You mentioned inflation and multiple wage indexes. We have a debate with the Secretary of State on the impact of these various wage indexes on the budget. The Secretary of State strongly argued that this had a negative impact on public finances. In La Libre Belgique on 14 June, I also read the words of your party president, Georges-Louis Bouquez, who says that "the state is the biggest winner of automatic indexation, because an inflation of 8% means a contribution of 20 billion to the state funds via social contributions and the IPP. On the one hand, a secretary of state for the Liberal budget tells us that "it is very expensive for public finances" and, on the other hand, your party president tells us that "the state is filling its pockets with these wage indexes". Since we're lucky to have the Secretary of State among us, I'd like to know who's right. Two theses so far from two Liberals, it's still challenging.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u118	It's very simple. Did you read the budget? Have you seen the adaptations in particular with regard to the police, the justice system, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Internally, the State itself has to cope with wage indexation, price increases, etc. There are therefore adjustments in the State budget which concern State services. On the other hand, it is clear that the increase in remuneration leads to an increase in revenue, because in the last social interventions it has been said that over-profits in taxation are being taken to redistribute them. It is therefore in two cases which analyse, on the one hand, public finances and, on the other hand, the fact that supplementary revenue is in any case redistributed. There is absolutely no opposition between what the Secretary of State says and what Georges-Louis Boucher says. We're talking about two different things. You're confusing me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u119	Mr Piedboeuf, I agree with you. But Mr. Boucher says something other than what you say! Mr. Boucher says...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u120	Mr. Boucher is not here and is not Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u121	Yes, I did. Mr Bouchez said, "The state is the biggest winner of automatic indexing." And, Madam Secretary of State tells us the opposite. I would therefore like to know, in your opinion, who is right. Is that the Secretary of State or Mr. Boucher?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u122	They're both right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u123	They say the opposite of each other but they're both right!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u124	No, they don't say the other way around. They're talking about different things. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u125	Is the state the big winner of automatic indexing? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u126	Look, I wouldn't want to be unpleasant but you have a limited understanding!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u127	I wonder if it is not the president of your party who has a limited understanding!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u128	No, I don't think so! What does wage indexation produce? An increase in income. What is the result of an increase in revenues? An increase in tax revenues. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u129	Since we have been sitting together in the Finance Committee, we all agree that indexation has positive and negative effects on the state budget. I simply note that Mr Boucher sees only one aspect. He holds that the State is the great winner of automatic indexing, while the Secretary of State has shown us the opposite, as well as the Court of Auditors. But I hear you don't want to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u130	Mr Van Hees, when Georges-Louis Bouchez talks about indexing, in particular a defied indexation, what is he referring to? It refers to the fact that indexation produces tax revenues, as I have just told you, and, if we want to improve purchasing power, perhaps we have to think – he has not decided anything. This is where this is discussed. – a defied indexation. Why? Because at that time, indexation will produce a supplementary income for all workers – not just for certain categories that you want to help all the time, always the same. This will lead to an increase in income for all workers, and it is the state that will, of course, bear the consequences, since there will be fewer tax revenues. That's it! The Secretary of State is therefore right in what she says, and Georges-Louis Boucher is right in what he says in support of an argument in relation to a vision. Mr. Laaouej gives up. Mr. Van Hees quits, so it's 1-0. I will mention a series of things that have already been said by predecessors in the opposition. During the preparation of the 2022 budget, this year was presented as a pivotal year for our country. We had to focus on continuing to support economic growth, to take on citizens and to provide them with the necessary opportunities. These included fiscal recovery, reform in the areas of employment and social security, tax reform, a modernisation and investment plan, a source of innovation, particularly in digital and sustainable development. Finally, in the light of the evolution of energy prices, the government had to introduce a series of new measures to help households. Unfortunately, times have changed and some measures have fallen behind. It's not a mistake to find out. Budgetary control has been carried out at a time when we are confronted with the shocks mentioned, which affect our economy and society. To protect citizens, the government has already approved several packages of measures that are dealt with either in an adjustment paper or in this budget control. For budgetary control, the government, as we know, has based itself on the estimates of the monitoring committee, which was based on the parameters of the economic budget of the Planning Office, but not yet on the budgetary and economic consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. On the other hand, the inflation forecasts of early March, according to which there would be an overrun of the pivotal index in July of this year, have been taken into account in the expenditure. The energy package announced in March was also included in the estimates as undistributed measures. The government faced the emergency. This does not prevent the need to achieve the proposed reform objectives, including improving the employment rate, tax reform, fiscal prudence and reducing the state's life-cycle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u131	For us, tax reform remains a long-term response to the problems of purchasing power and the European Commission's recommendations to remove job traps. The measures in favour of purchasing power must be temporary in nature and must be replaced structurally by taxation which allows for a real increase in purchasing power and, above all, which will make Belgians free of their own choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u132	Mr Piedboeuf, I try to understand your reasoning. You say that a number of reforms were agreed in the 2022 financial year, but that you were overtaken by the current situation, including the Ukraine crisis and the more expensive energy, which meant that you had to spend extra money. You referred to the need to provide our citizens with the opportunity to take part, such as support for energy and finance, and that is just what you are arguing for, to say, a number of reforms have been delayed. I do not understand that reasoning. In my view, reforms should be speeded up just when there are additional needs and expenditures. We would then have to speed up labour market reforms and pension reforms just as they are the best purchasing power measures. People are given jobs and they are also good for the budget. Can you clarify your reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u133	I'm saying exactly the same thing. We got ready for the emergency. Now we need to replace emergency measures with structural measures. We haven't done it yet, but we have to. That's right. The Minister of Finance is not here, but he knows it. If we really want to increase the purchasing power of the population, we believe that it is in particular through taxation that we will achieve this. The idea, for example, of a defied indexation, is an idea like another. We want to try to increase the purchasing power not only of low incomes – the previous government and the latter – but also of average incomes which, in the absence of indexation of tax scales, pay a maximum while they should be challenged, as is the case in France, Germany and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. We need to do it. That is our point of view and I think it is shared by many. We have to agree. I know the Minister of Finance is working on this. I hope that we will soon have on the table a reform project that will enable us to meet these objectives. I'm not saying different things. We had to deal with the emergency. Now we need to replace the urgency with structural measures. In the wake of this, I would like to say this. People got checks, but they don't want them. They want to have enough money to live and decide how they use their means. When you give a fuel check, they use it for fuel most of the time, but they want to be able to decide for themselves what they do with their money. This is done by working on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u134	Mr Piedboeuf, I love your voluntarism. You believe that there will be a tax reform, even in 2022. We hope so too, but we are one step faster. Above all, we hope that labour market reforms and pension reforms will be implemented. That was my question to you, too. Those reforms should have been implemented by now. Can you confirm that labour market and pension reforms should have been implemented by now, because they are the best purchasing power measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u135	We really believe that tax reform is likely to increase the employment rate. We had a debate on the tax shift earlier. We believe that giving more income to the people who work is likely to give more people the desire to work. When we see the number of unemployed in relation to the number of jobs available, we find that there is a shortage of labour, not only in Belgium but also in France – we talked about the border – and everywhere in Europe. Of course, we are convinced that one of the solutions to our economic and budgetary situation in particular, as well as to the need to take measures for the lowest and middle incomes, is to increase the employment rate. It's the only way to do it. So we have to work on it. We're not, but I know the Minister of Finance is working on it, and we think we can do it. I'm making a point. We must recognize the situation and the place where we are on the way. This is not the one we thought of because we were disturbed by a series of elements, including war. We didn't think about it at all. For the rest, we thought about it a little, but not that intense way. As I said, the emergency was handled. To a large extent, the budgetary adjustment in five ways has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u136	Indeed, there is a wage and purchasing power problem in this country. You recognize him. It can be seen that the 1996 law has still blocked wages since 1996 with a loss of 4 per cent compared to neighbouring countries. Normally, it was to avoid competition from neighbouring countries, but the opposite is the case. Belgian wages have been blocked, and over the last two years (2021 and 2022) real wages, despite indexation, have fallen by 2%. This means that indexation does not protect against price increases. One of the problems is fuel, which is not included in the health index. Given the situation of fuel prices today, do you not find that there is an urgent need to put fuel back in the indexation of wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u137	The indexation of wages, of which we are still almost the only holders in the world – which we boast about – largely compensates for the increase in the price of life, but does not do so completely. That's the case with fuel. Indeed, when we have to make a full that costs 120 euros, this is obviously problematic. In short, indexing compensates, but fails to do so for everything. The 1996 Act deals with the issue of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u138	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u139	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, No, it is not impossible to think about the composition of the index when we see how society and prices are changing. We do not like stupid reflections, but we are not opposed as a matter of principle to reflection. Indexation is therefore a mechanism that compensates – and we all say that we must not touch income indexation, even if it weighs a little on businesses. On the other hand, we must be imaginative so that indexation does not penalise them by making them no longer competitive with the outside world. In my view, defied indexing is one of the avenues to explore to ensure that people really have more in their pocket. When we work on taxation, it is not the companies that pay, but us. It is the state that pays, and it can only do so by improving the employment rate. However, it is not complicated: 80% of the employment rate represents 42 billion revenue! You will have understood what is necessary: you must increase the employment rate. Therefore, we need to push people to work and make them want to. If they don't have it, you have to push them. We do not all agree on methods, but we will discuss them again. I hear what you're saying about prices. Everyone sees them. That the index does not compensate for rising prices is a fact. That we need to improve things is a fact. We agree on that. Only we need to find a way to do this. We believe that it is through taxation that we will achieve this. You think it's taxing. Not us! We believe that it is by zero-rating that we will allow our fellow citizens to have more purchasing power. You want us to tax each other. While our country is one of the most taxed countries in the world, you still want to add a layer. We do not want abstract billions, but concrete billions through an increase in the employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u140	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u141	You're asking me if I agree that the price of fuel is prohibitive. When I fill up, like everyone else, I see that the amount is over 100 euros. I agree, of course, that this is too high. Don't try to make me say what you want me to say! I told you that discussing the composition of the index is absolutely not impossible. We have to discuss everything when the world changes. Why, for example, are we talking about military spending today? Because the international situation has changed. During the crisis of the Covid-19, measures had to be taken in line with the situation. It's the same for purchasing power. So we can have a thought, why not? Structurally, we must now restore the means to intervene in the services and sectors most in need: police, justice, security, innovation, energy creativity and economic development. There are already elements in the budget that act as a barrier to price increases, but more needs to be done. The agreement that has just been reached in favour of the "job deal 2" is a good augury; we are waiting for the texts. Despite the difficulties, the optimism of the will must be maintained. I am not in favour of constantly shouting that the situation is desperate. Our country has a potential for innovation, creativity and development. We have cutting-edge sectors. We have to keep the hope of what we can do. The MR Group thanks and congratulates the Secretary of State for her rigorous work – she is not here to hear the compliments but we will pass them on to her – and her calmness in the storm. This adjustment takes into account realities and maintains ambitions. We will have to work together to put them into practice. We will therefore of course support this adjustment. I have not exceeded my speaking time because this is a budgetary adjustment. In my commune, it takes no more than three minutes. Here we are already several hours away.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u142	We are grateful to you, Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u143	I am sure that your municipality's budget has no deep-seated figures, Mr Piedboeuf. I'd like to ask you a short question. All the way to the end, you said you were excited about Le Jobs Deal 2. Is there a second work deal? In my view, there is only a mini-job agreement, which has finally become more concrete after the third or fourth time. If there's a second work deal, I'd like to see the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u144	Me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u145	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the various statements made by Mr Piedboeuf. The latter is of course fresh in memory and can actually be very brief, because I fully endorse Mr Piedboeuf's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, when a budget check is discussed in plenary and put to the vote, the document on this subject is usually obsolete. That is even more so this year than previous years, simply because the external events were so intense that they have even more impact on the initial budgetary data that we adopted in autumn 2021. The corona crisis is not over, the energy crisis is certainly not over, and neither is the war. Hopefully the forecasts are correct that inflation will be 2% next year and the economists will be wrong about the impending recession. The members of the opposition disagree with us on many issues, except that external events have had a huge impact on budgetary figures. Colleagues, yes, we are facing additional expenditure of EUR 4 billion. Is that a lot? Yeah, that's a lot. That is certainly a lot in the light of the budget deficit and the public debt. However, let us look at the reasons for this additional expenditure. We have spent this money in order to respond to the problems of purchasing power of families and companies in relation to energy, electricity, gas, petrol and fuel oil. Additional defence expenditure is also needed and the government needs to spend more in order to pay the indexations and rising energy costs. Colleagues, there were good reasons for this. Neither the majority nor the opposition opposed much of the extra expenditure. If you now charge that the government has spent EUR 4 billion more than was initially budgeted, when you have implicitly approved these expenditures, I think that is a bizarre story.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u146	Mr Verherstraeten, my statement shows that we are not criticising some of these expenditures, but rather the fact that the government is saving and reforming too little. You mentioned an important point, namely the price at the pump. Not so long ago, we were standing here in the chair. At that time, you accepted our proposal to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. That proposal was also taken up by the Minister of Finance. Meanwhile, we're two weeks later. I have only one very clear question: what progress has been made with this promise that you made in plenary in Parliament to the people to reduce excise duties to the European minimum? At that time, I promised you that we would keep following up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u147	Madam President, I would be more than happy to answer each question separately, unless the questions are on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u148	I find it remarkable to hear that the Flemish interest here says that there is a lack of savings. The Flemings should know that. The Flemish Interest asks the government to save. You said: what I'm suing is the lack of savings. Anyone can write that down. Mr Verherstraeten, the price at the pump is a very big problem for the people. Your group regularly asks questions about this. There was a 17-cent reduction, people felt that for five days, but then the price was again above 2 euros. We are not yet at the European minimum. There's nine cents left. This could amount to about €7 per tank turn. I think this is an important idea. We also wonder where that promise is. The question is also whether we should not go any further. The PVDA thinks we should go back to 1.40 euros at the pump. That's the price it's been for the past five years. For this, we must go below the European minimum and we must also think of blocking prices. With regard to revenue, it is also important to say that petrol is not only subject to excise duty but also to VAT. There are also more revenue for the State, because the price goes up. Can you go into more detail about the price at the pump and what is still possible there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u149	Colleagues, first of all, the first one in the assembly who indicated that we had to do something about pump prices is there. That's the Minister of Finance. He didn't just talk about it. He did something about it, too. People don't feel it. Mrs Merckx, I understand what you're saying. After all, prices are rising so much that the Federal Government's efforts are partly offset by the price increases. That does not mean, however, that nothing has happened. Much has happened because of that measure. When we look at the budgetary picture, we find that if we look at it on an annual basis, we are at EUR 1.2 billion. So we must not underestimate how much effort has been made. I believe that the Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Budget can be supplemented and/or corrected by figures: at the moment, the federal government's effort is between EUR 10 and EUR 15 per tank. That effort is by no means insignificant in its entirety. Secondly, in the light of the continuing price increases, our party and our group are in favour of changing this and reducing it to the European minimum. However, this is not a budget control measure. This is a measure that needs to be discussed when it comes to the 2023 budget, because that measure is not nothing. I just had it calculated. This is an additional EUR 800 million. Mr Vermeersch, you can trivialize our efforts and claim that we are doing nothing. Last time, during a speech here in the Chamber, I invited you to come to the region where I live to see how many Dutch people come to refuel here in Belgium, although the Dutch Government, which has much more budgetary space, has also taken measures, which are less far-reaching than the measures taken by the Belgian Government under more difficult budgetary conditions. You will refer to Germany, which has only recently gone to the European minimum. That is also our ambition, but this measure is part of all the measures we have to take in the context of the 2023 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u150	Mr Verherstraeten, on the plea for lower excise duties on the pump, I would remind you of the debate on the ruling in October, when we first asked you, during your speech, what you would do about the price of the pump. At that time, you deliberately misunderstood our question. You then mentioned excise duties in the energy bill. In the meantime, the Minister has begun to challenge and has effectively introduced a first reduction in excise duties. I do say: a first reduction in excise duty. As far as we are concerned, there are still some reductions in excise duties. You refer to the cost of EUR 1.2 billion. I've requested the figures from the Minister of Finance. Excise duties have risen from around EUR 31 billion to EUR 33 billion compared to precorona times. There are therefore additional revenue in excise duties for around EUR 2 billion. You can check the VRT web site, the minister himself was the one who said that the extra revenue that there are will all be returned to the population. That's not happening today. I also take note of the fact that CD&V says here that the minimum reduction of excise duty they have promised will be included in Parliament's budget negotiations for 2023. This means that a reduction in excise duty will not be achieved until 1 January 2023 at the earliest. I hope that the people do not hear that you are proposing this in Parliament. Only then, Mr Verherstraeten, will that be problematic. It's today that a lot of people can't pay their bill. You rightly referred to your region and to the fact that Dutch people came to fill up. Shall we see where the Dutch are going to fill up today? The Dutch are going to fill up massively in Germany today, because the German Government has done what your government has failed to do, namely to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. Let us look at the parking lots of the supermarkets in the Netherlands, and count the Belgian number plates there. Many Flemings go shopping there because that is a lot cheaper in the Netherlands. That is the reality. That's what we have to name. Half measures, and promising that in a few months' time, or by 1 January 2023, you might reduce excise duties, is not what you said here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u151	Madam President, I see that the Minister already wants to answer, so that might be interesting. Mr Verherstraeten, on 2 June the Minister said that he wanted to go to the European minimum, but you say today that this will not happen before 1 January 2023. The government is therefore not planning any new measures until that date with regard to the price of petrol. That's bad news, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u152	Madam President, I would like to correct a few things. Firstly, Mr Vermeersch, you say that we are bringing in more excise duties, but you must also be honest. Excise duties do not rise because the price of diesel or petrol increases. I know that's what you mean, but it is. You can't begin to magic with numbers that shouldn't be magical. We have sent the message that we will return the increase in VAT on diesel and petrol. In March we decided to reduce excise duties by EUR 17,5 cents per litre. For this we have used the increased revenue of the VAT on petrol and diesel. These additional revenues are estimated at EUR 300 million for the whole year 2022, while the cost of reducing excise duties is EUR 300 million for one quarter. We will extend that reduction until the end of this year. That amounts to three quarters, so three times EUR 300 million or EUR 900 million. You tell me people don't feel that anymore, Mrs Merckx. Sorry, but on every full tank there's a 10.50 euro drop. For the sake of clarity, if we did not make this effort, a full tank would cost EUR 10.50 more. Please try to say quite honestly that the effort we are making is not minimal. Perhaps this effort is not maximum, but let me at least make it clear that we are well aware of the problem of prices at the pump and gas and electricity prices. For the latter too, we have taken a measure to reduce VAT to 6%, again because we know very well that this is a big problem for many people today. With regard to reducing excise duties to the minimum, please refer to Germany. That's where they did it for a few weeks. We have reduced our excise duties by 17.5% for nine months. It has been on the table this weekend, but we have chosen very explicitly to make an effort over a longer period so that we can reduce excise duties until the end of the year. I think that is a very important measure. I am glad that we are taking this kind of action for the many people who, with their cars, do not have to drive a company car, but have to go to work with their own cars or take their children away.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u153	Minister, for the record, you are right. Indeed, it is not a matter of excise duty but of VAT revenue that has increased. In a written question I asked you for the figures for 2021, compared to the precorona years 2018 and 2019. In 2018 and 2019, VAT receipts amounted to EUR 31 billion, which amounted to EUR 33 billion in 2021. The price increases therefore increased by 2 billion. That was 2021 compared to 2018. Meanwhile, prices have risen even more. Of course, you are silent about that in all the languages. That amount, the difference from the pre-corona years in additional VAT revenue from energy products, is much higher than the EUR 2 billion. During the budget negotiations in October, you made it very clear that all the more revenue would be returned to the population. We say very clearly here that this is not happening today. You're doing too little, neighbouring countries are doing much more. I mentioned the reason for this in my speech and also gave Secretary of State De Bleeker this weekend in L'Écho. It is because we have problems with our budget. That is why we have no room and that additional revenue should be used to fill the wells instead of giving them back to the population. The increase in revenue is taken into account in the budget because the situation in this country is already so problematic. The difference between Flanders and Germany when it comes to excise duties is that Germany has its accounts much better in order. This will enable that country to reduce excise duties to the European minimum. It's as simple as that. Madam President, this is therefore fully part of this budget debate. Should this country have its accounts in order, we could do much more for our people, not only with regard to the price at the pump, but also with regard to the shopping cart and our far too high energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u154	Mr Minister, when I say that people do not feel that you have reduced excise duties, that is the reality. The petrol was five days cheaper, after which it cost more than two euros. On Monday 80,000 people arrived on the street and this was one of the major themes on that demonstration. People can't afford it anymore. That's how high the price is at the pump. What concerns me, above all, is that you did not say whether you would further reduce excise duties, which you promised on 2 June. Mr Verherstraeten says that it will not be before 1 January 2023 and you have said that we will continue the approved reduction until the end of December. That means that you might even consider raising these excise duties again from 1 January 2023. You have to be clear. What you are saying here is really not reassuring and the PVDA continues its petition, because the price of the petrol has to fall again to 1.40 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u155	Mr Merckx, do not put words in the Minister's mouth. This government has made agreements until the end of the year. At the end of the year or in the autumn, we will not only talk about the budget for 2023, but perhaps also about the last months of 2022, to see if there is anything else we need to or can do. If that's the case, then so will we. So, in those circumstances, do not put the Minister in the mouth that he says that it will end. That was the last thing he meant. The Minister will fully agree that, under unchanged circumstances, excise duties will remain at least at present. As far as we are concerned, we will be calling for additional steps when prices at the pump are too high. The people who cannot work by train but have to do so with their cars must be able to keep that affordable. That remains our ambition. Mr Vermeersch, you are right to point out the difficult budgetary situation in our country. We can't do what Germany does, that's right. Despite the fact that this was very difficult for us budgetaryally, we did what we did, and that was not minimalist. It's very easy to shout, but harder to do. If I may take a moment to judge what you are doing, I hear the proposal to give the government an authorisation to reduce excise duties. I find it very interesting that an opposition party actually wants to give power of attorney to the government. When a government asks for powers of attorney or special powers, an opposition party usually screams murder and fire. I can understand that. However, the Flemish Interest does the opposite. So be a little more inventive and creative instead of shouting like this. In any case, the concern you and other members of the opposition have also lives with the majority. We are aware of the cost of fueling low-income people today. If we can, we'll do our best.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u156	Madam President, since the Minister for Finance is here, I would have liked clarification on one aspect of the reduction of excise duties. After all, only part of the story is told. What if international prices were to fall again to 1.70 euros, which we do not expect at the moment, then the cliquet system will come into operation again? Can you confirm this in Parliament and for the people? For example, the promised 17,5 euro cents will be flattened and will not be given in full? Is it true that the cliquet system will start again from 1.70 or 1.75 euros at the pump?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u157	I've never lied about that or said anything else. That's the deal in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u158	Minister, I will start positively. You are right to distinguish between budgetary control and budgetisation. You are also a very attentive listener to the debate. However, you are already the fourth speaker of the majority who blames N-VA for approving aid measures, but at the same time comment on the fact that the budget deficit is increasing by a further EUR 4 billion. It is already the fourth time this afternoon, but as long as that intellectually unfair argument is put forward, I will continue to stress that our group also submit reform proposals to Parliament for every expenditure we approve. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions, legislative proposals are ready to compensate for future additional expenditure. Are you really doing budgetary control? On the other hand, we see that a number of parties at the negotiating table asked for the extension of certain measures, which entails additional expenditure, while there is no control over the agreements made. No other party has indicated that in the event of more expenditure being increased, it is also necessary to reform faster. We know CD&V, especially from the past, as a solid board party. How do you define the principle of budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u159	Mr Loones, in the Committee on Finance, you have said that what is ahead is not actually budgetary control, but that it is simply an increase of EUR 4 billion. It is true that 4 billion more is being spent, we will not deny the light of the sun. However, there is a difference between a budget and budgetary control. Budgetary control actually means that the figures are adjusted to reality. The reality may be that external events affect the figures, even without regulatory adjustment. That has certainly happened this year, partly because of the additional indexations and the inevitable expenditures by additional measures taken. Is this a question of budgetary control worthy of that definition? I think so. In this sense, I understand Mr Piedboeuf's theorem that he needs a little less time in his congregation to implement an ajustement budgétaire. By this he means that budgetary control is actually a technical matter, in which the figures are adjusted to the changed circumstances rather than a political matter. I follow him in that definition. Whoever follows him in that definition is the Flemish Government, with its correction on public finances where budgetary control is purely technical. That is why there is a little less debate about budgetary control in the Flemish Parliament. Budgetary control is in theory a technical adjustment of the figures, and in this case we are also consistent with the measures we have taken for families and businesses. It goes without saying that we have included the additional expenditure generated by the measures in budgetary control. That is why my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u160	That is, of course, a special argument. You said just now in response to the petrol debate that the measures that would come would have a budgetary impact of EUR 800 million. In your opinion, that amount was so high that it would not fit in with budgetary control. In your opinion, it would be a policy decision that belongs in a budget format. That was technically a completely correct answer, although there is, of course, the discussion about timing. In this you do not check the figures. You have taken new policies to the tune of EUR 1.4 billion. Of the EUR 4 billion, 1.4 billion went to a number of additional social measures. These are therefore policy decisions that are taken in the context of a budget formulation. But no, they are now being taken in the context of budgetary control! Something's not right. We cannot eat off both sides: either we look at the figures which change purely technically in budgetary control and we do not take new policy decisions, or we actually conduct policies. The latter is exactly what you do, but you only do it when it comes to expenditure and not when it comes to reform. That is our fundamental criticism. I don't mind your policy. We must be able to act quickly, especially in the event of a rapid change in circumstances. If there is a budgetary moment to intervene, then it is also logical to do so; the services are organized on it. Then do it on both sides of the balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u161	Do the seven majority parties have policies and have they and course made the route, after we have made budget agreements in the autumn of 2021 for 2022? Of course we did, thank God! This has helped to improve the purchasing power of families and businesses. If we had not translated that into a budget check, you would have said that our figures were wrong. It makes sense for us to translate that into the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u162	I'll just ask a little more directly. If you were the Prime Minister in the Verherstraeten I, II, III, IV, V, VI or VII government, and you were faced with the demand of a number of parties for more expenditure amounting to a total of 4 billion, of which 1.4 billion for social expenditure, you would have reminded them of the commitment made for the 2022 financial year to make a budgetary effort of 3 billion, which has become 2.4 billion, and pointed out to them that, as you add to the 2.4 billion 4 billion, you are expecting reforms to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u163	I will come back to the question of whether there are any reforms against the 2022 budget. In any case, no Prime Minister would face multiple crises of this magnitude and that intensity that justify 4 billion additional expenditure, which finance the immediate implementation in the same financial year of certain structural reforms. I follow you, however, that the situation should encourage us to go further in structural reforms than we have been up to now in the budget of 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u164	Do you also believe that this strategy will be a successful strategy? I refer to what has just happened to this legislature. The Socialists were asking for pensions to be raised. It was really necessary for that to happen. They brought in that trophy. You have rightly awarded them, together with us, in the hope that something will come back, perhaps in the form of fiscal reforms or pension reforms. However, that was not possible. The more left-wing parties of your government have already won their trophies several times in this legislature, hoping that there will be a mini-trophy in return, but it will not come. This time, you are doing so not only in budgetary terms, but even in budgetary control. The trophy cabinet is filled on one side, but you remain empty-handed. Your optimism graces you, but I'm not sure you'll be very successful on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u165	What we have done does indeed require a great deal of additional resources. It was absolutely necessary for both social and economic reasons. Don't underestimate what we've done for the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u166	Mr Verherstraeten, you are above all creating a great deal of confusion. You claim that there are reforms against increased spending. But it's not. It's even worse. The original budget included measures to generate more revenue, such as the fight against tax fraud, representing a few hundred million additional revenues. The government wants to do so by recruiting 50 additional inspectors, as it is included in the budget. When discussing the budget adjustment in the Committee on Social Affairs, I asked what was going on with these recruitments, because I understand that more manpower is needed to bring in more. The Minister's answer was that these recruitments would be completed by the end of this year. I note that there are still revenues that should be generated by additional people who will not be recruited this year. Reforms or actions have therefore been announced with a view to increasing revenues, but they are not even being implemented. Then it is very confusing that you have been standing here for 10 to 15 minutes loyal to the government of which your party is a member to defend additional expenditure, a large part of which relates to social expenditure. In the case of the N-VA, in the context of corona measures, which made it almost impossible to continue to work, we have always called for very targeted measures for families and companies that really needed support, and always supported such a policy. We have also always pointed out that these measures must be fine enough, otherwise they will be spending a lot more money, which, to start with, will miss out on a great deal of its purpose. That has also been apparent in the last two years. We've been screaming alone in the desert. If you say that we have approved all of this without hesitation, that is not correct. We have always made that remark. And we have always put forward alternative proposals. But, for a few months now, we have not been standing alone in the desert when it comes to the fineness of the support measures, the additional social expenditure that you are defending here from A to Z. In the Committee on Social Affairs we have received a supporter, in the form of Mr Muylle, you know, from your group. Mr Muylle has also said for a few months that these measures must be more finer than they are today. I do not hear that in your speech. I would therefore like to know the following from you. Is it indeed Mr Muylle who expresses the position of CD&V? She says that there must be much more targeted measures than today. After all, today there is still a temporary unemployment scheme which is exactly the same as it was two years ago at the start of the corona crisis, in that first lockdown, where almost no one, literally, was allowed to leave, let alone go to work. Today there is still exactly the same arrangement, under the guise of the same coronapandemic. Mr Muylle says that it has been enough for a few months now. I do not hear that in your speech. We're talking about the increase in spending now. The additional expenditure you are now defending has been criticised for several months by someone from your own group in the Committee on Social Affairs. Hail to Mr Muylle that she is indeed doing so, because I think she is absolutely right. We've been saying it for two years. What is the position of CD&V? Do you really think that there is too much room for manoeuvre here and too little room for manoeuvre with public funds in social spending? Or don't you think so and do you like it all the way it is now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u167	Madam President, I asked for a comment on the reforms later, but if there is a constant interruption, I will not be able to answer them at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a member of the committee and I am not aware of the current state of recruitment, but I suggest that you turn to the Minister in the thematic debate. The fight against social and fiscal fraud, which is equally important to me, is a question of staffing, but also of logistical commitment and, where appropriate, of adapting the rules to prevent cases. I do not know the budgetary state of affairs, but, in any case, ambitions are included in the 2022 budget. The various members of the government may also be assessed at the end of the financial year to see whether the figures were obtained, why not, and how to adjust them. It also seems as if no reforms have taken place at all, ladies and gentlemen. Would our group have liked to have gone further with the reforms at the moment? Yeah, that's an open secret. I endorse what Mrs Muylle says. Does this mean, because we haven't done that yet, that we won't do it? No. Mr Piedboeuf has just advocated further reforms. I said at the beginning that I agree with that. However, I do not want to minimize what has happened. I said last week that I wanted to vote on the labour deal before the summer. The government knocked that off last Friday. I trust that we will vote on this for the summer. Is that necessary? Yes. Is that enough? There's more to go on and there's more to go on. That ambition must also be there, but do not minimize what measures are being taken there. This is gonna get jobs anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u168	Thank you, Mr Verherstraeten, for your detailed reply. My question was actually what the CD&V's opinion is about the very few fine-meshed measures that have been rolled out over the past two years under the guise of all kinds of crises. Mr Muylle said in committee that the measures are far too low in size and that there is too much public money. That's what we're saying. You are now saying that you agree with that. It is now clear once and for all that the CD&V believes that the Vivaldi government is too rich with public resources in social spending. Thank you for that very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u169	Mr Verherstraeten, I feel that you are moving on to the reforms. Did you close the purchasing power chapter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u170	I have indeed closed the purchasing power chapter. I just want to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u171	I'm sure you can. The more the merrier. Use your full speaking time for suggestions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u172	We still have six months in 2022. The reforms will be for the 2023 budget and next. We've got six months left to spend and get in. Some expenditure will be inevitable and others will be strictly necessary. I fear that external circumstances will even ensure that some expenditure will be even higher than is foreseen in this budget control. Madam Secretary of State, may I make an appeal on behalf of my group regarding the second half of the year? We have already had difficult budgetary periods with different governments, where the Minister for the Budget and the Government said at the last minute that they should look at expenditure with a magnifying glass. As far as our group is concerned, these are not investment expenditure, they are not the necessary and necessary expenditure. That is a political assessment, and I leave it to the government to do so, but we also have a lot of ordinary, current expenditure that we have to look at with a magnifying glass and, as we sometimes call it, with increased budgetary caution, with increased administrative and budgetary control. Reality shows that many governments often spend extra money in the last month. The fact that we have spent so much extra money might force us to do it a little earlier than in the last month or weeks in order to avoid unnecessary expenditure. I'll focus on 2023 now and then...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u173	I see you are following the debate very closely. So you talked about purchasing power and support measures, often implying that the government decides who gets money back for what reason. As has just been said, some of these decisions are justified in the familiar circumstances. However, when you talk about the purchasing power of families, I have read the expert's report. There was something very interesting in it, because I had questioned the Minister a few weeks ago. You responded to that last week, and I noticed that. The trees don't grow to the sky. That's right, I can agree with that, just like your suggestion earlier. I quote: 'The sum of the measures must be affordable so that we do not forward the invoice to the next generation. The addition should not result in certain categories that need it less being the most profiting." And now it comes: "We are in favour of indexing wages. However, indexing tax rates will benefit people who need it less than people who absolutely need it." Mr Verherstraeten, it is therefore a suggestion from the experts. The indexing of the tax scales takes place only at the end of the year, while people have, of course, been given 2 to 3 index jumps. About half of the employees and benefit recipients receive them during the year. The other half gets that once a year. You give the impression here that the indexation of these tax discs is a gift to the rich people, but I would fundamentally dispute that. A family with two children with a median income is paying more than 1,500 euros of taxes, sneaking away because nobody knows and sees that. At the end, this is evident in the complex calculation of taxes. Should the Finance Minister come here and announce that he wants to take 1,500 euros away from the people, he would have to resign the next day, but this is actually done de facto by the non-indexation of the tax scales. So you take all kinds of measures, but meanwhile that family with a median income sneaks through index adjustments instead of paying extra 1,500 euros of taxes. That is EUR 1,500 that they would normally be able to spend themselves, unlike other measures, at their sole discretion. For example, people who do not drive or choose to travel by public transport can do other things with it. They can decide freely. I think that's why the experts recorded that. However, I think it is very strong that you speak against this last week. I think I have to interpret your words in this way: this sneaky tax increase, without making any more money, and that you are now defending purchasing power measures for a very long period of time. Are you really saying that the faster indexation of tax scales is a matter that benefits the richer people and not the working Flemings who, as far as we are concerned, are in the middle class and who are, for example, just above that income limit, which means that they are not able to benefit from measures today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u174	May I reverse the question, Mr President-in-Office? Suppose you implement the measure. For a good understanding, I do believe that indexation of pay scales is an element which must be taken into account, but of course it has a large cost. The cost of this is one and a half billion euros. If we were to say, let us make sure that we help the people with a median wage of 1,500, that is to say, for those who have much more, it is a much higher amount. What would you do? How would you try to help those people with a median wage?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u175	I find your intervention extremely interesting, because we are now learning that you are moving in an additional 1.5 billion. So you have just seen a tax increase of one and a half billion, without taking any action, that is to say, because of the automation that protects you lately. After all, you say that if we straighten that out, it will cost us a billion and a half. That won't cost you anything! You're just gonna give it back. You just make sure people don't pay extra taxes. So you're saying this system is interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u176	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u177	You just said it. You say this would cost a billion and a half. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's the correct interpretation of what you just said. I must honestly say that I find this a particularly interesting moment in the debate. I had calculated it per couple. We now know that, as Minister of Finance, you de facto subscribe one and a half billion tax increases to your budget, not because people's wages increase but because they are adjusted to the index. Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u178	Mr De Roover, you quoted me correctly. However, you have given an interpretation of my words, as if I were to argue that tax rates should not be affected. I'm just going to explain what I meant last week. Of course, I agree with you that if the tax scales are not indexed, this is a sneaky tax increase. We agree on that. When these indexations are applied in conjunction with current hyperinflation, I believe that this is very beneficial for everyone. However, it is even more beneficial for people on very high incomes. We are in a budgetary context today in which you rightly quoted me on this point too: trees do not grow into the sky. If we are going to have to take purchasing power measures in the context of budgetary negotiations for 2023, then we will have to work on the left or right side. If you would like to know my personal opinion or the opinion of our group, I can tell you that the advantage of indexing tax rates or the benefit of changing rates, specifically aimed at median income and the lower middle class, is perhaps not in favour of the highest or the highest income. However, this may be extremely justified in order to prevent a promotional fall and to get more people to work and keep them. Despite the budgetary context, this is more than justified at the time. Moreover, it seems to me to be much more useful and efficient than the sympathetic measure I heard from the Greens last week in relation to the tax credit and the tax credit scales, which, however, may have perverse effects in terms of the fall. We'll have to look into that. The objective is the same, in particular to ensure that lower incomes, especially lower middle incomes, earn more. The choice that is made must not be perverse and the result is that tax, parafiscal or social disadvantages are added to it, which means that there is no net gain. This risk threatens with the current rules. It is therefore necessary to be careful which parameters are used. In any case, I have argued in favour of not spending up to and including money, but of trying to intervene more effectively. I certainly did not advocate doing anything about the tax scale rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u179	We are told by the Minister of Finance that an additional 1.5 billion is being levied in the short term for the sake of indexation, not for the sake of wage increases. You literally say there's a sneak tax increase, you admit it. That's what happens today. What I find so perverse is that the government constantly says that it has distributed this and that, but in the meantime it's getting at least 1,500 euros from the median family. That's what it's about, that's perverse. We already have a huge progressive system. Just a few more index jumps, and we have a flat tax, i.e. everyone 50 %, up to the last euro. That very progressive system, more progressive than in other countries - you know the equations - is becoming even more progressive through the indexation mechanism without a rapid indexation of the tax scales. I repeat, it is indeed the median family, which has so far been excluded from many measures, which pays EUR 1,500 more without actually getting a raise. I think that's perverse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u180	Mr De Roover, our group is in favour of progressive taxation. I think it is absolutely right and I think we should maintain it. Above all, I think that any tax reform should certainly also focus on the burden on labour in general and very specifically on the burden on labour in that category of people belonging to what we call the lower middle class. The latter group should have a net impact on any overtime worked, on any promotion, in conjunction with all other regulations. The government must keep this in mind when decisions are to be made in the context of the 2023, budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u181	Mr Verherstraeten, I did not argue against the progressiveness of the tax scales. I did say that we have an extremely progressive tax system compared to all neighbouring countries. Of the people who earn an income through work, it is not about other forms of income acquisition, the last 10%, the highest decile, pays half of the personal income tax. That's what I call pretty progressive. It cannot therefore be claimed that the strongest shoulders do not bear the most heavy loads at the moment. This progressivity leads to the Minister of Finance knows the exact figures.... that the first 50% of people contribute relatively little to the income in the personal income tax, I think 6%. That's like the progressiveity. I'm not an opponent of this progressiveness. However, I am opposed to perversion. Without any press release, the Minister of Finance has said it now, but never published in the press. The Minister of Finance receives an additional EUR 1.5 billion in taxes by means of indexation. Other measures will be publicized, but this will be tough. When I asked a question about this a few weeks ago, it was not answered, but now the Minister had no choice. I am not happy with the phenomenon, but I am glad that now we have quantified what the government actually gains from the non-indexation of tax scales in the event of high inflation. I call that perverse, because nobody immediately feels that as a measure, while de facto it saves a considerable sum in the family budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u182	Mr De Roover, it is about nominal terms. That is not necessarily winning in real terms. You are right to point out that inflation or price increases will lead to additional income on the left or right. On the other hand, as a result, the public authorities also have additional expenditure. If one compares the two sides, then the balance sheet is clearly negative for the government. Otherwise, we would not be discussing budgetary control today with an additional deficit of EUR 4 billion. We give back a lot more than we get. Mr Loones already gave his opinion at yesterday's committee session, with the representative of the National Bank. I thought that was a very interesting session. On the one hand, there was no panic, because the level of debt will fall slightly in 2022. After that, however, it is over with the decline and puts in a sensitive increase, coupled with the structural deficit with which we are faced. We also talked about the interest burden, which I didn't find uninteresting. This burden of interest will, fortunately not yet in the short term, be fundamental objections to our budget. However, he is at risk of doing so in ten years' time, with an exponential increase of 3%. With a public debt of more than 500 billion euros, 3 % is not nothing. We were also right to point out that as of 2024 there is a structural deficit of 5% under unchanged policies. All this coupled with the fact that covid is not yet over, that the Ukraine crisis is not over yet, and that there are economic mischief messages coming at us, made him plead on behalf of the National Bank to improve our primary balance. How can we improve the primary balance? Mr Loones, you are very good at quoting some Members in various ways at various times. Sometimes that's funny. Mr Herman Van Rompuy once said in crisis conditions in this Parliament: 'A country cannot change the wind, but it can change the state of affairs'. That is a fine statement in today's spirit of time, in which it is storming in various areas, with huge budgetary consequences for the government, which are largely inevitable. This does not prevent the need to adapt sails, namely to implement structural labour market reforms. I share the view of the Minister of Finance. We must not minimize the work deal that has finally been knocked off, but we must make additional efforts. We must not minimize the pension reforms of the previous government. Some coalition partners have fought it on swords and horseback, but have agreed to maintain it. I really don't think they should be minimized. For some people, that wasn't nothing. However, this does not prevent us from trying to move forward. It is claimed that nothing has been done about tax reforms. However, we have completed the BBSZ. We have also taken fiscal measures to increase the tax deduction for childcare, to get more people working, to make it financially feasible for those who have children to go to work. The various scientific reports show that Belgian taxation is too complex and that this complexity costs money. In addition, there is too high a tax burden on labour, which costs us jobs. Furthermore, there are too many unjust loopholes and too unbalanced a tax burden, which costs us support. Hence the need for reforms in three areas, all for the same purpose. More jobs are needed, more purchasing power and more competitiveness for businesses. That must be the ambition of all reforms. They will result in a lower budget deficit and a better primary balance. The various ministers will undoubtedly make proposals in the coming weeks and months. The Minister of Finance has already put forward a blueprint for fiscal reform. Then it is especially important that we study them thoroughly, together, before we replicate them. We are sometimes faster in replicating than in studying. Don't say immediately what can't, but say what can and focus on what should. The opinions on tax reform are clear: lower the tax on labour to get more people working. We must then talk about how that should be financed on the left and right. In the autumn we will discuss budget 2023. 2023 is the penultimate year of this legislature. 2024 is an election year with parliamentary and local elections. In the run-up to elections making budgets with structural reforms is not evident, especially if structural reforms give rise to less expenditure, my experience teaches me. That's not obvious. 2023 is not an election year. Madam Secretary of State, Minister, I do not think it would be wise to prepare the 2024 budget in the budget of 2023, and certainly to lay down the broad lines. In this way, we can set out the objectives we agreed on in the coalition agreement, in terms of structural reforms and savings and in terms of one-off savings. The budgetary outcome for 2024 is also easier to achieve. I think, Madam Secretary of State, that is an important fundamental task for the coming summer. In this way, we can rely on good budgets, not only for 2023, but also for 2024, and move forward on structural reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u183	Mr Verherstraeten, I find your last proposal to establish immediately the framework for the budgets of the years 2023 and 2024, very interesting. Next year is indeed the last full political year in which there are no elections. However, I fear that the credibility of your proposal will be undermined by your own words. Even if we fix the two financial years, we are still able to carry out budgetary controls that add billions of extra expenditure, and that is, of course, the point. I will conclude with the question I started with. You missed an opportunity to link a reform policy, for which you have argued the whole second part of your speech, to a momentum for which some of your coalition partners are asking parties. That greatly undermines the credibility of all your other proposals. I want to say it with your own words. You made an alliteration with the sea and sailing. It is stormy indeed, you make water, but you do not shrink your sails, you do not start to hoard, you do not reduce the hole in your hull. On the contrary, you are making it even bigger and you are doing so on a ship with seven captains, while this budgetary control was an ideal opportunity for that one captain to finally get on his feet and say that he is in charge. If one of them says to go to port, then the others have to say they're going to starboard so we stay on course. I'm afraid you won't do that to this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u184	Mr Verherstraeten, I have listened to you very carefully. I would first like to comment on the non-indexation of the tax scales. This is effectively the same discussion as that on the increase in VAT on energy products. This is an effective increase in revenue. The political question is whether or not we are going to give back this extra 1.5 billion to the population. That is indeed the correct analysis and the political question that arises. Shall we give that extra revenue back to the people? In May an interesting article appeared in Knack, perhaps you read it, titled "Why is CD&V still in the federal government?" With that question in mind, I have tried to listen to your speech. The article makes a destructive analysis. Secretary of State Mahdi leaves Migration and Asylum in ruins. From Minister Verlinden we find that the police are calling the alarm about the savings. Just look at the police training courses, where there is a shortage of staff and training is simply shut down. There is also a mess left behind. Finally, there is the Minister of Finance. It promised a tax reform, but it was already torpedoed by the PS. I heard Mr Laaouej make a plea for fiscal reform, but a while ago he completely torpedoed your fiscal reform. The same thing happened on the other side, with the liberals. You have three people in the government. The Minister of Finance will not get his fiscal reform through this legislature, let us be honest. The Secretary of State and the Minister leave their cabinets and policy areas as a mess. What is the added value of CD&V? Can you answer the question raised in that article? Why is CD&V still in the federal government? That's not just what we say, the Leuven professor Kurt Deketelaere also says that in a tweet. He has worked for Kris Peeters and has been head of Hilde Crevits' cabinet. He also states that the Presidency will be a measure of nothing if Sammy Mahdi does not pull the plug. Why is CD&V still in the government? Can you formulate a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u185	I leave the language to some of our ministers, but I think it is totally inappropriate. I will not write the report of these three excellent ministers. By the way, you would blame me for subjectivity. Our Deputy Prime Minister is here. When he suggested the reduction of excise duties on the pump, not all seven parties applauded it. You've seen that, too. What's the result? They're here. How many years has the BBSZ remained unchanged? The Minister will give you an answer. Who's gonna move that? This minister. There are additional recruitments in the police department. Are there any problems on the premises? Yeah, but we made sure there were additional recruitments. You will not contradict her palmares regarding covid. As far as Mr Mahdi is concerned, I understand. He might be our party chairman on Saturday, so knock on it and try to make him look bad. This will benefit the damage to the lot. That's what it's about. It's not about rigging his policy. Only in the last 14 days, quite coincidentally, when it became clear that he was going to be party chairman, he is being watched with a different pair of glasses. He will undoubtedly answer your questions in the thematic debate, but I think that special achievements have been achieved in the area of reception in these particular crisis conditions. What are we doing in this government? Why did we join this government? Because we do not want to leave this country in ruins in times of crisis, we also need to make choices in crisis conditions, including in the socio-economic field. My group and I consider it important in such a situation that we make balanced choices, that we make centre choices. There are seven of us, and we do not think the same about everything, but I think it is important that we convince the left and right to move to the middle and to make choices that will benefit the purchasing power of families in crisis conditions. Budgetaryly, these may be spending and causing those deficits, which we obviously would not have liked to have, but they are now necessary. On the other hand, they also express our ambition for reform. For one, the labour market is a little more difficult, for the other it is a little more difficult for taxation and for another it is a little more difficult for pensions. Let me be very clear: Christian Democrats find it difficult for nothing. We want both labour market reforms and reforms in the areas of pensions and taxation. We will be the driving force for balance within the government's bosom, so that these reforms are implemented. Supporting the weak and encouraging the strong is the ambition of this government. That's why I feel at home in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u186	The next speaker will be Mr Van Hees. Does Mr Vermeersch wish to add anything else?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u187	Madam President, I would like to respond. The question comes not from us, but from an article in Knack. CD&V will therefore not be able to work out this tax reform in the next elections. What's that supposed to mean? Why is CD&V still in the federal government anyway? I also quote a tweet by Professor Kurt Deketelaere in Leuven: "If Sammy Mahdi does not pull the plug, that presidency will be a measure of nothing. From the federal government and a staff change in the Flemish government, the only serious opening move is to save some of the furniture in the remaining time." That's what someone who knows CD&V completely from the inside. That is why I asked you the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u188	Firstly, Mr Vermeersch, you have already quoted the same quote from Knack three times. Are we here in the Chamber to hear articles from Knack referring to the existence of a party in this hemisphere as a result of a budget change? Secondly, there is no link to this budget change. Whether CD&V continues to exist or not, that will not change the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u189	The party has a reason for existence. Everyone elected in this hemisphere has a reason for existence, no matter what the party's name is. Stick to that. The same goes for your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u190	We have to move on. We are still in the general discussion and we still have the thematic debates afterwards. As Mrs Depraetere said earlier, it may be time to activate. We are in budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, people can't take it anymore. On Monday there was a historic demonstration of 80,000 people. It was never seen since 2015. Today, four different crises are added. We had the covid-19 crisis, which is not over. We've got this explosion in energy prices. We also have the floods. It is thought that it is over, but people are still facing dramatic situations today, with insurers who have not even passed by to do a survey. Then there is the war in Ukraine. These four crises obviously have a strong impact on the state budget, but above all on people. That is still what we must remember. The very nature of any budget based on economic projections is to be quickly exceeded. This is also the case for this adjustment. Within this adjustment, the government has had to make a "update" Ukraine, which shows that the expected growth is less than expected for this year. And again, it decreases for 2023 and 2024. Despite this economic deterioration, this downward adjustment, this adjustment does not change the variable effort set out in the original budget. This means maintaining the variable forces in addition to the fixed effort, that is, adding austerity to austerity. The government obviously did not hear the call of this demonstration on 20 June, nor did the public service strike of 31 May. Indeed, let us remember that the cause of this public service strike remains above all your fiscal policy - not just yours, Madam Secretary of State, but that of the previous few governments. I'll give it to you. Already some previous governments! It is often said that we need to spend the money of the state better, which goes without saying. But what masks the real problem is that we have decades of austerity that have led to a catastrophic state of public services. Why were the May 31 strikers on strike? In the case of purchasing power, while they are subjected to unrelenting wage moderation since there has been no increase in public service scales in 20 years. There is a downsizing. Thousands of jobs are being lost. Indeed, it is quite surprising that this government is talking about employment rates, where employers of public services are cutting jobs. Other expenditure reductions are, for example, the closure of the 21 FPS Finance buildings. I note that the Minister of Finance has disappeared, for a moment, I suppose. It justifies these closures of buildings. It is the systematic destruction of a local public service. We're destroying him. This has already been known for stations and stations. It is now the turn of the FPS Finances. In addition, it is ultimately FPS Finance officers who pay for telework. This austerity also comes from the Maastricht standards that have long been imposed by the European Union. Let us take the debt criterion which is supposed not to exceed 60%, even if, for the time being, we are in a standstill at the level of the European Union's budgetary diktates. Debt stood at 108 per cent for 2021 and 2022. And we had a pretty interesting exchange with the Debt Agency. One might think that it comes with bad news in view of that 108 per cent compared to 60 per cent. Well, no! She came to tell us that, never before, she had experienced such a low debt interest burden. The interest burden on the debt is 1.4 per cent of GDP. The Secretary of State says that this will increase in the future, except that the Agency has told us that we have long-term loans and that, as a result, we are doing as well as the other countries, when we are more indebted than the European Union average. I asked the Agency if she remembered a time when the debt burden had been so low. Do you know what they said to me, Madam Secretary of State? No, they don't remember. They could not say in what year the interest burden was as low as it is today. So, Madam Secretary of State, I asked you the following questions: "What level of debt do you think is acceptable? Should we stay in the 60 % dogma, or can we put 100 %, 120 % of debt?" You said, "It's hard to encrypt an acceptable level." You have to put a limit, a dogma, a 60 percent diktat. There's nothing to worry about! But when it comes to questioning him and considering something else, it's more complicated. I asked the same question to the Minister of Finance, who said to me: "It is true that a discussion is under way at European Union level to review the Maastricht standards, but I am not going to make a public statement. It's better to negotiate behind the scenes." That's the zero level of transparency! Moreover, there is no debate on such measures. We discussed earlier the impact of indexations on the state budget. I have shown the very great discord between the Liberal Mrs De Bleeker and the Liberal Mr Boucher, who said exactly the opposite. But there is also the impact of indexation on household budgets. Here, we can mention our Secretary of State for Recovery, Thomas Dermine, who says: "The Belgian model is interesting because it is predictable. Automatic indexation provides a minimum threshold, and the Wages Act of 1996 capped wage increases. One protects purchasing power, the other protects competitiveness." I would rather have expected this from a right-wing politician, but it is a PS member who says so. That's doubly wrong. Why? Because indexing does not protect purchasing power. Real wages fell by 2 per cent in 2021 and 2022. We obviously support and defend this principle of indexation, but it clearly does not protect. In particular, there is the problem of fuels, which are not included in the basket. And above all, there is a 1996 law drafted in 1996 by Elio Di Rupo. Mr Dermine said that it protected competitiveness. No! It protects companies' overprofits. Since 1996, we have been able to take stock. The Central Economic Council has done so. One realizes that there is a 4 per cent loss of wages compared to neighbouring countries. Therefore, this was mainly used to break wages in Belgium. So it can be said that they are not the problem. They're the solution. Moreover, wage freezes lead the economy by breaking demand. Conversely, the latest report of the National Bank indicates that consumption will be the main driver of growth in the coming years. In doing so, Minister Dermagne's order to block wages at 0.4% is a very bad idea, a very bad decision. Good news for the state, but not for people, tax revenues are increasing in the budget adjustment under consideration. They are increasing from 2021, but also from the original 2022 budget. If we take the most socially unjust consumption taxes, we are talking about 36 billion euros of VAT, i.e. more than 2.7 billion euros compared to 2021. Excise accounts for EUR 10 billion, more than EUR 0.5 billion compared to 2021. If we add the two together, that's 46 billion euros in unfair taxes. It is almost as much as the tax on natural persons, which is 48 billion. The inevitable question therefore arises as to whether there are any margins to reduce household energy bills. It must be recognized that the government has taken some action. But if we take the case of fuel, it took five months for the Minister of Finance – who is still not present in this House, but it is true that you are here, Madam Secretary of State, you will tell him what I'm saying – and the government is taking a step, a step that only five days later was over because the small reduction in excise duties was totally ate by the price increase. What is quite surprising is that the government has budgeted $288 million for this excise reduction. But the Court of Auditors informed the Minister or the Secretary of State that the calculations were not good. Indeed, the measure is applicable from 16 March to 30 September, therefore for six and a half months. However, according to the Court of Auditors' calculations, this amount covers only three months. Where the difference comes from. I asked the Secretary of State, who told me that the amount was 90 days. Now I know that 90 days and three months is the same thing. Madam Secretary of State, in committee, you have not answered my question as to why you have provided an amount for a period of three months rather than for a period of six and a half months. Does this indicate a total mismatch with reality when it is said that the fuel will rise to 3 euros perhaps this summer? Finally, the most fundamental issue is the reduction of this price of fuel. For Mrs De Bleeker, the measures must be temporary, but for the PTB they must be general and permanent. On 1 June, 100,000 signatures were handed over to the Prime Minister to block the fuel at EUR 1.4. Today you can see, the litre of diesel is 2.18 euros and the Minister of Finance says that we cannot reduce taxes more than today because Europe imposes a minimum excise duty and a VAT rate of 21 %, except that, and unfortunately the minister has not yet returned, the government has not reduced excise duties to the European minimum. It is quite surprising to say that we cannot reduce beyond the European minimum and not go to this European minimum. We still don't know why. Secondly, at European level, the minister and the government do not argue for a review of the rules. We can say that "we cannot go down further because Europe forbids us" but if we do not conduct the debate at European level to review these rules, it is obviously a bit hypocritical. It's a game of tricks in relation to the population. What does the Minister of Finance answer in committee? "It takes time to review European rules. As a matter of urgency, this is not the right path." On the other hand, when it comes to saving the banks, there, in a few days, measures are taken that are contrary to the Treaties. With regard to VAT on gas and electricity, the debate was held with Mr Laaouej earlier. We are not going to repeat this debate to know whether finally Mr Laaouej is for VAT at 6% or against because depending on the days, months or the budget work and debates here, the version changes. However, on 22 December 2021 he said to our colleague Hedebouw, "We are showing you that a rich man will withdraw three or four times more from this measure." I draw the conclusion that he is therefore opposed to it. No, he's against it, but he's for it! Mr. Laaouej will be left with his contradictions. Still, the government had decided to lower VAT to 6%, but not to make it a permanent measure. Thierry Bodson, president of the FGTB, said, after Monday's demonstration, that this three-month extension of VAT to 6% is still a discount decision. It will only last three months when it would have been more reassuring for people to decide on an indefinite extension. Certainty ends on 31 December, in the middle of winter because – and that's what's crazy – we stop this drop in VAT in the middle of winter! Anyway, if things go wrong for people, for others, it's okay. For capital, it can be said that things are comfortable. First, there are the BEL 20 dividends, which are calculated to amount to €8.17 billion for 18 companies, an increase of more than 50%. Wage increases are blocked to 0.4 per cent, but dividends from large companies are up by 50 per cent. There is also the issue of taxation of these dividends. The tax on dividends amounts to EUR 4.5 billion in 2022, of which EUR 3 billion is on dividends. But according to the data provided to me by the Minister of Finance, almost 80% of dividends are taxed at 0%. Small savers pay 30% of household discount, but 80% of large companies' dividends are taxed 0%. There is also, of course, the over-profit of nuclear power. ENGIE Electrabel has achieved significant over-profits, particularly on nuclear production. We're still waiting for a serious tax on these overprofits. It can be seen that the government received a blank from the National Bank of Belgium, after that of the European Commission and the CREG. We finally wonder who decides in Belgium on these energy issues: the government or ENGIE? There is also the oil sector, because when prices are too high at the pump, oil multinationals put their pockets on it. Let's remember that TotalEnergies has achieved the biggest benefit in the history of French companies! It is, of course, always expected that these multinationals will be used to reduce the bill at the pump. As for the GAFAM tax, I quote the government agreement: "If such an agreement cannot be reached within the OECD and the European Union, Belgium will introduce a digital services tax in 2023." I read the press: no agreement until 2024 - at the earliest! I conclude that the government will develop this digitax. I'm waiting for an answer. In committee, I didn't get one. Perhaps I will receive one today by miracle from the Secretary of State or the Minister of Finance, who has disappeared again. Oh, no! He's here calling. It's definitely an important phone call... And then there's the professional discount waivers. You know: it is this legal theft of workers' taxes by employers, who take the professional prepayment to pay it to the tax, even if they can keep part of it for them. Last year, the government announced that it was going to spend some money on reviews, passing these exemptions to the fine comb to correct abuses. I can tell you by numbers how the government has acted to achieve this. The initial budget indicated EUR 3.7 billion per year. This legal theft of workers' wages by employers now amounts to 4.1 billion euros. Also, among those who are doing well, 1% of the richest. By 1 May, five parties of the Vivaldi had claimed that the rich should be taxed, for example with the tax of the millionaires. We were very happy. Strangely enough, we haven't heard of it since then. Is the validity of the promises of May 1 so short? We can ask ourselves. With regard to tax fraud, the Minister of Finance - who is still not returning - has given us an interesting figure. So far, he told us that calculating tax fraud was not in itself very interesting, but that it was better to fight it - as if one prevented the other. But this is the miracle of Rerum Novarum, since the minister announced, on this occasion, that the volume of black money in Belgium was 71 billion euros. We asked him what he was based on. This was the work of a professor at the University of Linz who calculates the amounts from the underground economy. This is interesting, except that the Court of Auditors notes that the amounts budgeted for the fight against tax fraud are not based on anything and, above all, notes the government's flagrant lack in the fight against major tax fraud. I am thinking of bank secrecy, which remains a Belgian exception, to the data mining on the data of the Central Contact Point (CPC), which should have entered into force in September 2021 according to the government agreement and which we are still waiting for, and I am thinking of this laxity in favour of tax havens, since the government has agreed that the European Union should withdraw from its list of notorious tax havens. We even have public companies like Proximus and SNCB that use tax havens, including Delaware, which is one of the most formidable! If our public companies use them, we must not ask how far the non-action against tax evasion is a reality in our country. The question remains of spending that is increasing and of spending that is expected to increase but not. The best opposition is between what we do with the rail and what we do with the defence. For Defence, the budget exploded to reach 2% of GDP in 2035. For rail, jobs are being eliminated: while trade unions say that 4,000 railway workers would have to be hired to achieve the targets by 2032, SNCB and Infrabel want to eliminate 2,000 jobs. Not everyone is taking the train in this House, but you probably know that, since the beginning of the year, between 2 700 and 4 000 trains have been abolished every month for lack of staff. Trains are cancelled or broken because they are not maintained. The situation is catastrophic and will worsen in the future. We thought that Ecolo was a pacifist party, very attached to public transport. I am not going to overwhelm them because they are not present in the Chamber to defend themselves. We note that the pacifist message has disappeared. The commitments for the railway give the impression of disappearing as their militarism develops. Colleagues, you will understand that this government's policy is totally inadequate. Do I need to make this presentation? This is to see the demonstration that took place on Monday and that broke a historic record of 80,000 participants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u192	Mr Van Hees, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u193	My time has expired but I have finished saying the essential things I wanted to say. I could have added some things, but I'm not going to. You will therefore understand, in conclusion, that unfortunately we will not be able to support this budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u194	Madam President, first of all, if Mr Loones has prepared questions or comments, I suggest that he should put them in place in the interests of the efficiency of the sitting. Apparently, he doesn't have one. That's good, of course. I should also like to remind colleagues that I am neither a State Secretary nor a member of my party's government or spokesperson on issues on which newspapers report and nothing to do with the budget. The third adjustment of the expenditure budget is under unfavourable economic conditions. There is the aftermath of corona, although we have acted quickly with the unseen support measures, with which we have helped many citizens and businesses. We've tried as hard and as angry as possible to get everyone through that difficult period. Moreover, even before a subsequent revival began, we were increasing energy prices, the supply chains were failing and inflation was strongly attracting. Last year I had warned several times about an inflation shock after the corona crisis and unfortunately I was right. In that series of crises, of course, the raid in Ukraine is the superb stairs. It causes immense human suffering and brutally suppresses any hope of a strong economic revival, except for a revival of the arms industry. Our continent is being dragged into a new cold war, which it itself did not want, but whose consequences it will bear. Sanctions against Russia are a moral duty, but bring little to the dike if the Russians themselves have the gatsp to threaten the Germans with turning off the gas tap, after we ourselves have blown high off the tower that we do not want their gas anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, aid measures come at a high price in crisis periods. After the crisis of 2008 and 2010, the successive crises have once again created a very large gap in the public budget. It is important to note that all these support measures create an unrealistic pattern of expectations for many citizens. The state must and can compensate everything, but the state, that is all of us, together with the next generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u195	Mr. Leysen, I was listening well. Did you say you weren't warmed up for the sanctions against Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u196	Sanctions against Russia are a moral duty, but they do little if we get into a situation where we hurt ourselves more than the Russians. They do not have the expected impact, and that is what we are seeing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u197	So you are critical of the sanctions, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u198	No. I'll send you the text so you can read it quietly. As a citizen, as a politician and as an entrepreneur, I am particularly concerned about the current situation, not only about the present situation, but also about the ways of keeping the ship on course and seafaring. I am talking about public finances and the prosperity of future generations. Therefore, the government must make every effort to preserve and promote a healthy economic environment. I would also like, if we look at the future, to consider an analysis of the economic and monetary underlying of the world economy today. That's less spectacular, but at least as important. Firstly, our international system of free trade in crises such as these is extremely vulnerable. Lean supply chains allow in good times to keep products cheap for our citizens, but in turbulent times lean supply chains not only bring a lot of uncertainty about delivery times and availability of goods, they also lead to a structural increase in costs, which means additional inflation. Secondly, we have been naive in managing our energy mix with a view to the transition to a sound climate policy. We must not allow the desire for more strategic autonomy to be lost in old-fashioned protectionism, which will only lead to more volatility, fragmentation and higher prices. I am therefore also firmly in favour of increased cooperation in the EU area. Last but not least, since the 2008 credit crisis, which turned into a euro crisis in Europe, the driving role of central banks has grown enormously. I would like to express some reservations. While, for example, the Deutsche Bundesbank used to be the guardian of the crawling inflation, the bankers of the Fed and the ECB seemed increasingly magicians. They stimulated economic growth through a policy of low to even negative interest rates and what is called quantitative easing. They kept us under the slogan whatever it takes for great dramas, but at the same time they also disturbed the normal course of economic cycles. We must dare to ask ourselves whether, after the financial crisis, we have not pursued this expansionary monetary policy for too long. Due to the low interest rate policy we gave oxygen to the formation of bubbles, such as those of the real estate market and the crypto coins. At the same time, the low interest rate policy with its low interest rates was, as it were, the handmaiden of the cheap financing of government debt. Let us be honest about that. However, the downside of the coin is a complete lack of incentives to deal with public finances efficiently and rationally. Former minister Van Overtveldt mentions that in his interesting book The Mystic Hand the sloth syndrome, the sloth syndrome in which the use of unconventional monetary toolboxes and unbridled money creation makes politicians ignore structural reforms. Otmar Issing, former top man of the Bundesbank and later one of the first directors of the ECB, said ten years ago: "How long will we have to wait until the negative of money and credit in monetary theory and policy will be understood as a major source of macro policy mistakes?" According to the financial markets, this is perhaps the moment now. This brings me to the Belgian level and our budgetary perspectives. It's gonna be driving and looking around. We must look forward and at the same time we want everyone to be with us. But we must leave the illusion that everyone sails unharmed by a crisis and that we can continue to transfer the bill to the government indefinitely, at any time, without boomerang effect. Energy policy and long-term security of supply, integrating into a well-thought-out path towards low-carbon energy sources, are the major challenges for the coming years. The belief and confidence in the contributions of new technologies are essential. I can therefore only welcome the fact that modest resources have been allocated in this budget to research into small modular reactors with a view to complementing renewable and nuclear energy sources. The government will further mitigate the bitter pill of high energy prices. It has already taken more than 3 billion in measures to support our families and our businesses, by the way, successfully, because several analyses confirm that the purchasing power of our Belgian families remains on average stable. Attention must now be paid to a sustainable improvement in our economic efficiency. The cheapest kilowatt hour is that which one does not consume, or, secondly, that which one shares with other users. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is time for a parler-vrai. Reality is simple. Spending money we don't have can't last. This will be confirmed to Parliament after hearing, report after report. The fact that some people in the hemisphere continue to ignore reality and propose publishing after publication shows short-sightedness, or worse still, gratuitous populism. I have a deep respect for the work of the Secretary of State, in particularly difficult circumstances, in a difficult government with many partners with different ideologies and priorities. Her orders are to get the ship back on course. That deserves respect and praise. In order to reverse our budgetary situation, it is necessary to reform, but that is not enough. It is not just about the reform of the labour market, because it is clear that more people need to work and the market needs to become less rigid. The work deal knocked off last weekend is definitely a first step in the right direction, but the rate of effectiveness of 80% is still far away. My stomach is turning when I see some of the government's parties taking part in a demonstration against measures that they themselves have decided on. In fact, automatic indexation has preserved purchasing power. Last week the National Bank of Belgium calculated that itself. Take your responsibility and don't shove them away from you. We cannot ignore the fact that all public expenditure will have to be kept under review over the next few years, including that over which Parliament has left control to the social partners. Then, of course, I am talking about social security. It can always be more efficient and effective. I fully support the Secretary of State for the Budget in its search for savings and efficiency gains. I look forward to the results of the ongoing reviews and hope that new ones will be launched. We will only maintain our welfare state if we organise it fairly, update it and keep it affordable. We must always remember the next generations. We do not need revolutions, but we do not get there by padding and keeping wet. It also includes courageous and difficult decisions. Let's face it, these are turbulent, difficult times. After the health crisis, there is now an energy crisis in a booming geopolitical climate without previous ones. It chops into all of us. Some benefit from it, but some suffer from it, even in business. As politicians in the Chamber, it is our duty to keep our heads down and steer the ship towards calmer waters. I'm glad we have the right captain at the helm with Alexander De Croo. Will the next few years be easy? No, on the contrary. It takes courage to face difficult times. Honestly, as an entrepreneur, I still see a lot of dark clouds on the horizon. That is all the more reason to introduce courageous reforms, make difficult decisions and abandon political games and profiling. We want this government to work and govern. That is why our group will fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u199	Mr Leysen, with the exception of that reliable captain, I can largely accept your speech. You are also represented on behalf of your group as a speaker, so I assume that you are speaking on behalf of your entire group and not a dissident voice within Open Vld. That last one's happened before. You may have operated a little alongside the executives, which you, as a Member of Parliament, may have done, but I think we have really heard the Vld story today and not actually the government story. You forgot something. For example, you said that the index protects against loss of purchasing power, which is correct, even before the tax authorities intervene. I actually want to confront you with words that have just been expressed by the chairman of the CD&V group on personal taxation. He says that through the indexation of wages there has been a sneaky tax increase in personal taxation. The Minister of Finance has raised the amount of EUR 1.5 billion. That is not the result of any measure, because it would put the country on a par. If the government took the decision to increase personal taxes by EUR 1.5 billion, which would require a median family to pay EUR 1,500 more taxes, you would be able to fill in on this and this tent would be on fire. However, this is the result of failure to take a decision. To what extent does it fit in your argument that this government has implemented a tax increase in personal income tax of EUR 1.5 billion this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u200	Bis repetita non placent.If you do not know the translation: repeat bores.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u201	Do not answer, and now I speak Dutch, which is sometimes significant. I understand your refusal to answer. In your place, I wouldn't answer either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u202	I'm not a secretary of state. I'm not a finance minister. I'm not a spokesperson for my party. I'm not a spokesman for the CD&V. I'll say it again, then you may have understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u203	You do not understand the answer, Mr De Roover, but I do not understand the question very well. We live in a country with progressive taxation, depending on income. Mr Leysen, I do not know if you understand Mr De Roover's question, but I do not see how he can describe this as a tax increase, if we live in a country with progressive taxes depending on income, where income is logically rising because the money is depreciating, and where that extra EUR 1.5 billion is a depreciation of the tax money. I do not see the imbalance in that, but perhaps you understand, Mr Leysen, or you can ask Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u204	I only understand that for some people the House of Democracy has become the House of Repeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u205	My name was mentioned in the exchange between the two colleagues. I would have liked you to repeat the correct answer. That'd be nice. Mr Leysen, if you see Mr Vanbesien again in consultation with the majority, tell him that a nominal increase in inflation is not an increase in purchasing power. It's just an adjustment to the increase in purchasing power. Let us assume for a moment, with all the details aside, that the index mechanism is broadly in line with inflation. The nominal income will then rise, but it will not be possible to buy more. The number of strawberries you can buy remains the same. However, as a result of the non-indexation, you will be able to buy fewer trays of strawberries after the load. This means that you lose your purchasing power without notice, because you have a higher nominal income in a higher tax base. Everyone is in favour of indexation, except for the indexation of the tax scales. Perhaps I will repeat it one day: the indexing of wages, but the late indexing of tax scales, will ensure that the index will not be able to buy as many strawberries as it is promised, because the government is gone with a few cups of strawberries. That is the answer that you, Mr Leysen, may pass on to Mr Vanbesien at the next majority meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u206	I will also give you the text, and you will see that it contains an answer. A crisis has an effect on everyone. For the rest, I'll leave you with your cups of strawberries in this house of repetition. Sometimes I wonder if people know the word efficiency in the Chamber. After all, we discuss everything in committee and then repeat it three to four times, but that belongs to democracy. Because of the volatility I have heard here, I sometimes wonder what the average citizen, who fortunately no longer follows via streaming, would think if he were in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u207	Mr Leysen, perhaps you can tell that citizen that, with your beautiful story earlier, you are trying to correct the median family tax increase of EUR 1,500 by saying that I am repeating myself. I will repeat to your constituents a thousand times that you are raising personal taxes and that you should not have repeated all your intervention earlier. You shouldn't have kept them even once, because it's bullshit. It is contrary to what you are doing in this House. You will be given a free pass from your group to pretend here, but if a liberal is asked how he will justify raising personal taxes, he will say that I am repeating myself. You are repeating yourself, because you are repeating tax increases. I will continue to repeat it, because your electorate rightly does not like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u208	Mr Leysen, perhaps you can also tell Mr De Roover that we have just said in the debate that automatic wage indexation is largely responsible for the loss of purchasing power, but that it is indeed not perfect and that the loss is not fully compensated. The government was asked to identify where there are loopholes in the net so that we can close it. However, we can go to all our neighbouring countries and ask all servants and workers whether they want the Belgian system or not. They will all say that they want the Belgian system. Despite the existing shortcomings, for which we must pay attention and consider to what extent we can solve them, I think we should be proud of the system we have here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u209	Mr Vanbesien, I will not put that question to the honourable Member. If he's not loud, he's heard it himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u210	Madam President, may I put a short question to Mr Leysen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u211	If he's willing to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u212	Mr Leysen, we know each other from the Finance Committee. I know, however, that you are critical of the way Parliament works, that it is all not efficient here and that this democracy is very organized. However, you are a gift for this house. I have listened very carefully to your statement, as I always try to do. You call Alexander De Croo the experienced Prime Minister, but you do say that his government is busy digging and wetting. You have literally criticised your coalition partners here for being short-sighted. You say that the actions of the PS turn your stomach. Mr Laaouej, you really should look at how that is translated into French. Mr Leysen, have you received the Prime Minister's note on a different style and approach for your Vivaldiploeg? A captain on a boat also needs a crew, there must be personnel to ensure that the ship continues its course. However, I do not know whether you have received that note.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u213	Those who consider themselves the best sailors are usually on shore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u214	We already knew that you were insulting us, that is not news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u215	Mr Leysen, you said you see a lot of dark clouds. Perhaps you have just listened to my colleague who said that last year's profits from the BEL20 companies were very positive. Do you not think that we should look at this when we are looking for effective money? You said that bold decisions must be made, that savings must be made. What are you thinking about in concrete terms? Can you make that concrete?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u216	We have a good working group, and that is the best channel to carry things through. I'm going to go into one of my concerns. The fact is that we live in a world where the greater the waves of the economic cycle, the more peaks and declines there are in the economic life of the companies. In a crisis, there are always winners, but there are also great losers. It would be better if there were fewer waves. There would also be fewer peaks of overprofits or overprofits. It would probably also be possible to avoid a number of bankruptcies that are now coming. As an entrepreneur, I am also concerned about the future and the role of medium-sized enterprises. Social media and energy companies have for some time shown that they are moving to larger and larger companies. As a result, their impact on society is increasing and increasing. There is concern that there is a conflict between legislative, executive and operational power in the economy. That is not a political debate, but it is a concern of mine. I am concerned because there will still be aftershocks, and we should not point the finger at one or the other as guilty. What I, as an entrepreneur, lack in certain dossiers is the pursuit of the broadest possible consensus on long-term objectives. I was with the Danish ambassador this afternoon. In that country, by the way, there is a minority government. They have drawn up a ten-year plan on majority and opposition on a number of key issues. This means that if the government changes, the whole policy will not change. It's those who are more popular, who are more sympathetic, who think they're doing better, who come to power. I believe that we are not doing very well, as we are working in Parliament today and as a whole of parties. We'll have to pay that bill, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u217	Again and again, year after year, I hear the same comments, both in the debate on the budget and in the discussion on budgetary control. There is a complaint that there is no normal budget or budgetary control for discussion and accuses the government of being unbearable. That's true, of course, but that's not news either. Everyone already knows that. It is a pity that the parties who criticise it do not take the opportunity today to be clear about the choices they would make themselves. That is what the debate should have been about. The opposition strives in political politicians and raises many detailed questions that are not really related to budgetary control. I've also heard a bunch of blaming and people play the man a lot. But people hardly talk about a credible alternative. That is a missed opportunity if we are sitting in here for hours to debate each other. That says a lot, doesn't it? With this budgetary control, the vivaldi government shows that it is making choices, precisely because the crises are not yet over. It makes choices in relation to the corona and Ukraine crises. Again and again, our country and the budget are being tested. Over and over again, the government, even in the current budgetary control, particularly in terms of purchasing power, for the people, for health. That's what this is all about. That is, of course, for budgetary control. I have heard a number of times that the government is already doing extra expenditure and that everything is going to go to hell with the budget. That budgetary control serves precisely to adjust when it really has to. At the same time, the same parties often demand that action be taken in times of crisis. For us, then, is the question of whether, for example, additional funds should be applied for the next indexation, perhaps in the autumn, or for agreement on defence and development cooperation or for the purchasing power package? These measures are certainly necessary for Vooruit. Last week I advocated extending measures such as the reduction of the VAT rate and the social rate and measures on purchasing power. Those measures, which are obvious to us, have been taken in the meantime. I hear some of you doing a little favors about that. You can do all that. That is not enough, because I agree with you. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the measures make an effective difference for many people. Those aren't just measures. The question I have been asked most frequently in recent months was whether the VAT reduction on energy would be extended. The reduction was indeed originally a temporary measure. In the meantime, the measure was extended until winter, with the commitment to review and submit a structural VAT reduction in the budget format. I sometimes hear other noises here: people complain that the measures are only applicable for a limited period of time, now until 1 January. But that's not the decision. I do not think it is a good idea to do anything about it, because the measures mentioned really matter. This budgetary control is a good thing for another reason. Budgets are adjusted if necessary. We are convinced that it must now, at a time when many people no longer see a way out. But the measures do cost money. That makes sense, otherwise we would not have to include the measures in budgetary control. In addition to the intervention in the higher energy bill, the draft contains other measures, which have not been sufficiently addressed today. I am referring to measures relating to temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to the war in Ukraine. It is also about crisis bridging rights for self-employed people in difficult times. In short, it is largely about adjustments for the sake of purchasing power. However, some claim that we are not doing anything for purchasing power. It is, of course, one or the other: either one criticises the additional costs arising from the specific purchasing power measures or one acknowledges that measures are being taken and that this is good. Measures are needed, but that does not mean that the budget cannot be derailed. I agree with the speakers in this respect; that is not the intention. But anyone who did this today will get off well, because I have heard from very few speakers what they would do otherwise. That is what I expected in the debate. What investment would they not have made? For example, would they not have taken measures to reduce the energy bill? I bought a new notebook last Saturday, because I wanted to write down all the opposition's solutions - Forward does not have the pretence to know everything and get started with it. I didn't write down a lot. I'm sorry. I admit that the N-VA did talk about labour market reform, cheaper migration policies and pension reform. That's what everybody's for. With Flemish Interest I have noted: saving on development cooperation. I'll get back to you in a minute. Maybe I shouldn't write that down anymore, because that point always comes back, of course. If the party were to see that proposal implemented, of course, it would only be possible to invest the money released once, when it has already spent it thirty times. My question was above all what one would not or would not do. No one knows when we might be dealing with a new crisis. We must be able to do what is necessary at any time. That is why the budgetary picture is absolutely important to our group too. Every group is aware of this, but it is not enough to say in every budget or budgetary control that there are uncertain times and that action must be taken. One has to do more. It has to be taken into account that uncertainties can last for years or that we have barely taken up one challenge and the next is already on the table, as we have been able to experience over the past year. We must therefore take this into account. There is, of course, only one way to keep things under control, which has been touched a number of times, and that is through reforms. I do not agree with the criticism that we should not carry out reforms, despite the major challenges. The Forward Ministers in the Vandenbroucke and Kitir administration are tackling the blocked files without taboos. You can, of course, disagree with the substance of the direction you have chosen, but no one can deny that things are happening. Thus, after dealing with the covid crisis, it did not take long for the Vandenbroucke government to table a stream of draft legislation in Parliament for discussion and vote. For some, the pace could not even be kept up. We have also heard a number of comments on this subject on a number of occasions. So we are also dealing with difficult dossiers. I am thinking of the complex dossier of hospital reform, which is not easy to solve. A reform is under way which should allow more efficient use of resources, which are highly needed in the healthcare sector, while at the same time making care cheaper for the patient. We need to organise ourselves better in order to offer better quality. We do not postpone this for ourselves because there has been a health crisis. The file is being handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u218	Mr Depraetere, you are talking about hospital reform. There is indeed a vague plan for this. We have had the first hearings on this today, but how much more money has been entered in the budget control for hospital reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u219	Mrs. Depoorter, it's not a vague plan. It was presented to the many partners involved in January. The minister is working on it and not just him; I went to a hospital three weeks ago to ask for input from hospital staff. So that's how we're gonna do the adjustment. By the way, there has already been a freeze on prices in the context of doctor's remuneration, which will allow some to be pushed over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u220	But how much budget have you allocated in budgetary control to compensate, for example, for the freezing of the salary supplements, which you announce, so that hospitals can guarantee their operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u221	The available budgets are increasing, because you know as well as I do that there is huge investment in healthcare in this legislature, over EUR 4 billion more. The objective of the hospital reform is, of course, that some things should be organised better and more efficiently. A more efficient organisation means better use of resources. This means that the quality has to be raised. At the same time, the patient can use care at a cheaper rate. Those three elements play together. There is no need to provide an additional budget for this, because there is already an additional investment of more than EUR 4 billion. This budgetary adjustment does not, therefore, provide for any additional budget. The budgets are already included in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u222	Mr Depraetere, that is not true. These budgets, which amount to EUR 4 billion, are absolutely not earmarked for the reform of hospital funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u223	That's not what I said either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u224	In this discussion of budgetary control, you indicate that your Minister is taking action, but you cannot put up with budgets in this budgetary control. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u225	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u227	In your opinion, should a hospital reform cost extra money?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u228	You will have to find a solution. This morning, in the Committee on Health, we heard some experts on hospital funding. You were not present because you are not a permanent member of that committee. Those experts made it very clear that there must be immediate resources against reforms. A freezing of the fee supplements is a good idea, but resources are needed to pay the beds, to pay the sick. Same for pharmaceutical care in hospitals. Our hospitals rely on medical fees, medicines and pay supplements for their operation. While you are in that transition, you will therefore have to provide resources, because you will not be able to act one by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u229	Mrs Depoorter, I assume that we will not carry out hospital reform in this House during budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u230	Thank you for confirming that. My point is that, in budgetary control, you say that you will take real action, but you do not put any resources into it. So we are in agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u231	This action is being taken and it does not always require specific resources when it comes to reform within a department in which resources have been greatly increased in recent years. That ambition is there and the Minister will carry out those plans. He spends a lot of time talking to all those people and of course he does it for a reason. Your group has just devoted more than a third of its speaking time to denouncing our minister, so I think you have confidence in it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u232	Everyone knows he still has the same skills. So much deception for our minister, it was almost embarrassing. So we assume that the N-VA Group is confident that if our minister takes control of something, he will also effectively implement it. There can be little discussion about this. The other department is development cooperation. My point is that there is effective reform and things are being dealt with. Certain parties said that it is all very easy, that development cooperation is spending a little money, but not much more than that. That's not right. We don't just do that because we like to support some people somewhere. We do this because it has a direct impact on our country and because there are also choices made that are important for our country. I admit that we may do this differently than it would have been in the past, but that is precisely what we intend to do if we want to reform a number of things as a minister. Making firm choices that provide easy criticism. I'll give you three examples that frame you differently than what it is. Firstly, climate projects in the Sahel, that is just making sure that something is done, such as mass planting trees, where that has the most impact. I've heard several people say in climate discussions that it doesn't stop at borders. Of course, this does not stop at borders, but then we must ensure that the policy is adapted accordingly. Secondly, fight against viruses. Same story, that doesn't stop at borders. Then one also needs a minister who helps to build factories and to break open patents to ensure that research is carried out so that everyone can be vaccinated. Thirdly, giving children a future, including in other countries, has an impact on our country. After all, we must be able to do everything we can to ensure that people do not have to flee their country, but can build a good life there. Once again, we do not postpone this because there has been an international crisis. We're definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u233	Mrs Depraetere, I also had a question about the budgetary control of development cooperation. Firstly, you want to allocate EUR 7.5 million extra humanitarian funds. However, you want to assign them by shift. This means that less private-public cooperation in development cooperation will be possible in 2022. That is a policy that runs counter to the policy of our Prime Minister, the former Minister for Development Cooperation. Is that also something in which the Vooruit Group sees the turnaround? Do you think that the aim is to increase resources on humanitarian matters rather than to facilitate civil society's private-public cooperation? Secondly, you referred to the vaccine policy of Minister Kitir and the COVAX initiative, but also to the hub and support for the production of vaccines in developing countries. We note that many vaccines are present in developing countries that do not fall into poverty. Is that, in your opinion, a successful action? You are talking about both your ministers, namely Minister Kitir and Minister Vandenbroucke. I note that Minister Kitir has been able to send a lot of resources to developing countries for the purpose of vaccinating. However, there was no logistical support. There's vaccines breaking up in the hangar. At the same time, we are in our country with 1.7 million vaccines, which will expire in August 2022. What is the response of the Group of the European People's Party to these two major problems? There are still a lot of people in the world who would like a vaccine. However, we note that the Forward Ministers are unable to put the vaccines in the right arms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u234	Mrs Depoorter, we are still engaged in the general debate and not yet in the thematic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u235	I'll come back. No problem. Minister Kitir is absent. It is only natural that I should put the question to the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Minister Kitir is traveling?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u236	Yes, but normally you have two minutes left. Your two minutes have already passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u237	Mrs Depoorter, it is not that I do not want to answer, but you asked both of your questions earlier this month, in committee, to the Minister responsible. It replied to both. She also provided me with the report, because she probably assumed that you would repeat those questions here. As far as the EUR 7.5 million is concerned, you have already received your answer. Some of them go to humanitarian aid in Ukraine. You know that. Anyone can read that in the report. I don't need to repeat that. Your second question was about the vaccines. It is true that it is not obvious, for example in Africa, to vaccinate everyone or to use all the vaccines that are being donated usefully. That's a statement. A lot of research has shown that. But the Minister has already replied that she is working on information and awareness campaigns. You've already received those answers. I've also seen your replies on it. I do not know if you will repeat the same reply, but that debate has already taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u238	Colleague, in a month's time there's a bit of work going on, I take it? A great deal of work could have been done on the ground. A lot of vaccines could have been administered. See how many we could administer in our vaccination centers one day. The mountain could have disappeared by now. The same applies to vaccines here in our country. We are now at the end of June. At the end of August is very close. I did ask Minister Vandenbroucke that question in May. Meanwhile, with the vaccines that are here in Belgium, something could have happened. One final question, Mr Depraetere, concerns the policy on BIO. Has there been any change in the funding for BIO in budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u239	Can you repeat your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u240	It is about the financing of BIO, the Belgian Development Bank? Our government finances part of its operation. I would like to know whether there has been a change in budgetary control for the BIO vehicle. Maybe the Secretary of State can answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u241	You are asking if there is an increase or decrease in a specific budget allocation. This is a question of a technical nature, possibly with a political interpretation. The Secretary of State for the Budget will respond to the reply. It is not necessary to start asking each Member whether any budget allocation has increased or decreased. This makes the debate impracticable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u242	Mrs Depoorter, as far as your question is concerned, there is indeed an additional budget for development cooperation. There is a commission of EUR 800 million for Ukraine, of which EUR 13 million is provided for humanitarian aid. That has been included in this budgetary control. I believe that this is an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u243	Madam President, I will clarify why I am asking the question. A change in the financing of BIO has not really been reported, but a report has been produced on the functioning of BIO. I thought the content of this would certainly be of interest to colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party. Part of the functioning of BIO is the fact that it has a central role as a private equity fund. Mr Vandenbroucke, you will certainly be interested, because it says here that BIO is no longer allowed to invest in countries that the Belgian government describes as a tax haven. However, the exclusion list is limited, and of the offshore centres there is a top 15 countries in which BIO actually invests that would not fit the Belgian picture. Feel free to check it out. In my view, it is essential to have it also on transparency in the use of resources in the context of budgetary control. It also means, Mr Laaouej, that if there are new facts, they can be taken into account in budgetary control. I invite you to analyse everything very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u244	Mrs Depoter, there is no change in this budgetary control for BIO. I have just told you what has been included in budgetary control. You say the report didn't appear until today. It would therefore be strange if it had been included in budgetary control. I have to disappoint you, I have not read the report because I have been watching this all afternoon in this debate. However, please give us peace of mind and ask the Minister your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u245	Colleague, the report dates from May 2022. I think someone in the many vivaldikabinets has had the opportunity to read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u246	Mrs Depraetere, you have understood our criticism of development cooperation. It's a politician's job to make things understandable. That is why I have given this explanation on the basis of headlines, but I can also do so on the basis of figures. We are establishing a very important change in this government's policy on development cooperation. There are significant shifts in the budgets of the programmes and there is a significant increase in the global budget for development cooperation. If I can believe last weekend's press, there will be a considerable amount of money. If we look at the total amounts, the commitments in the budget will evolve from EUR 900 million in 2020 to EUR 1.5 billion in 2021 to EUR 2 billion in 2022. According to the government's announcements last weekend, there will be a substantial additional amount of money. In two years, policy credit has more than doubled. You state that things must remain in order, but that is not the case in the Department of Development Cooperation. The payment credit entered in the budget does not follow. This applies to both 2021, with a difference of more than 336 million euros and 2022, with a difference of 745 million euros. This means, in concrete terms, that the policy credit is rising sharply, but to a large extent must be financed by future budgets. You give extra money to development cooperation, but the actual payment will be made in the next budgets. This doubling by over EUR 1 billion of that budget for development cooperation is in stark contrast to the context in Belgium. Last summer we saw people in Wallonia (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u247	Mr Vermeersch, you no longer have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u248	Mr Vermeersch, you ask me how I justify this. I have just explained what is in this budgetary control. There are huge sums of money committed to taking measures to protect people's purchasing power. There is also a budget for development cooperation. Choices are being made and reforms are being made, including in this department. That was just the criticism, that there is no reform. There is reform and choices are being made. You act like that's a bad thing. However, we do not agree with that. You may not agree with the direction this is taking, but you cannot deny that things are changing in those departments. We welcome the increase in the budget for development cooperation. This is no longer development cooperation 30 or 40 years ago. Things happen that also have an impact on our country. Things are happening with regard to the climate crisis, migration, the training of children and women, so that people can get a job in their own country. Our party's behind these cases. You cannot agree with that, that is your right, but I do not see it as a criticism, because I absolutely agree that these choices are being made. I mentioned a number of reforms. Of course, steps have been taken in the departments of the Ministers of Vooruit but also in other departments. However, there is still a great deal of need for reforms in the coming months. Everyone knows that crisis measures need to be taken and that this money costs. The question, however, is above all how to deal with this and what is to be done with it. This applies not only to health care, but also to international solidarity. It also applies not only to purchasing power. The biggest challenge in the coming months is to ensure that this reform also takes place in the field of taxation. The Minister has already explained that he is working on a plan. I agree that this is better today than tomorrow. This must therefore be done. However, labour market reform is needed. There are a few steps taken, but the two definitely go together. More people need to be able to work in us and those people need to be able to survive more net by the end of the month. We have already made a number of adjustments, not in this audit but in the budget format. For example, the work bonus is a good first step. However, everyone feels that this will certainly not be enough to ensure that people are left with more at the end of the month. It is also a more structural measure, because it has been mentioned several times that temporary measures are being taken which may become permanent. The VAT reduction becomes a permanent measure. That is good, but it is a structural measure to ensure that people are left net more. That is better than taking measures in all kinds of other areas, and we absolutely agree with that. That does not, of course, alter the fact that these other measures were necessary. Madam Secretary of State, two weeks ago, I was visiting a typical West Flemish company. It had passed corona, but now it worked at cruising speed again. However, the challenges have increased. There are more costs, both for staff through indexation and for energy. These total additional costs would amount to EUR 130 million per year for that company. It is more than just the cost of energy, and transport and packaging are becoming more expensive. There was a laundry list of increased costs. I thought all these rising costs should put people down. The opposite turned out to be true, however, because despite these huge challenges, the workers were also quite positive. The company saw challenges. The manager said that the increasing costs are on the one hand a headache, but that the rising energy cost offered the opportunity to speed up the energy transition he was already working on. This was, for example, about the large number of trucks they sent on the road and about the personnel policy, which they wanted to commemorate anyway. Things that might not have been done otherwise, or not on such short notice, have now been dealt with. Choices were made to move forward and reform. That's what they expect from us. After all the crisis measures, we need to reform in the coming months. You can count on the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u249	Mrs Depraetere, when you mentioned the reforms, you mentioned health and so on. We will discuss this earlier in the thematic debate. The question is which reforms are coming. I let you know what you thought of the other debates that are coming. Taxation and pensions are coming up. Which way will it go? Will it go in the direction that some want, with even less access to a pension according to career? Do we provide solutions so that the broadest shoulders contribute the most? You can count on the PVDA for that. The provisional solution for the labour market is disappointing, with ten hours of work a day and sanctions for sick workers. You also mentioned the opposition in general. The opposition isn't wet. There is clearly a left-wing and right-wing opposition. The solutions we offer are miles away from the savings that both the N-VA and the Flemish Interest are asking for here today. But also its own government parties, such as Open Vld just now, called for savings. We come up with proposals, like the millionaire tax. We have also retabled that amendment here. In any case, the taxation of excess profits only happens in the case of high-conjuncture. Of course, there are no excess profits in low-economic conditions. We are, of course, waiting for the position of this government and for action to be taken. Another slope is the free negotiation of wages in the companies. That's what the demonstration was about Monday. If trade union delegations in companies are allowed to negotiate wages in a more freer way, they will, of course, increase wages in this way. Those are the bosses who pay. Then, of course, more social contributions will be paid. In this sense, it is also positive for our social security. You say that people must have more net wages. A higher net wage and a continued reduction in the social contribution are of course not a solution in the long term either. Next week we will have the first hearings on the trade unions' request to revise the wage bill. What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u250	I would like to take up the argument put forward by Mrs Merckx. Mrs. Depraetere, I thought it was clever. I saw you trying to put the ball in opposition camp and ask for proposals. In my speech, I had anticipated the fact that you would say that the opposition always said the same thing. That is why we have outlined the broad lines in our general statement and will be asking the Ministers our specific questions in the near future. I would like to make a brief point. We have had the debate on the labour market and the EUR 5 billion in activation measures. We have also had the debate on pensions. We have put forward proposals in committee. Let us have those debates. Let us approve these texts. Today we have done even more. We come to this debate, not only with words, but also with concrete amendments. This includes our proposals on migration: how can we intervene in Fedasil and give extra funding for the return? In the area of pensions: specific to local police, so that their end-of-life career is properly funded. In the area of justice, what happens to detention homes? That's not gonna go well. We come up with concrete proposals, not only in words, but also in amendments, which you can approve. We also have proposals on our own political culture. How can we set an example ourselves to ensure that the cabinet is saved, rather than always pumping up more money? How can we save on the operating costs of the Chamber or Senate? Our proposals are there. I can explain them ten times, but then I might get blamed for repeating myself. I thought it was clever, but I do want to throw the ball away at you, and you say that we are coming up with structural reforms. You've listed a lot of domains, except one. I wonder if that is deliberate, but you did not mention pensions. It was about the labour market, it was about energy, it was about taxation, but not about pensions, whereas the reform should have been there by September. You said that we can only change budgets in between if we have to. Don't you think it should be for pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u251	Mr Depraetere, you say that we must come up with proposals. However, EUR 48 million has been entered in the budget through the white blouse fund to support home nurses. You just gave the example of the company that still saw it positively, because it can make an energy transition. How then is it that your Minister, in the two years he has been engaged, has not yet managed to reach an agreement with home nurses on the EUR 48 million entered in the budget? Those people are waiting for that, because they too have very high energy and transport costs. So I think that's a working point. I have one final comment on the budget. The Court of Auditors is right to say that you have entered EUR 302 million in the budget to be allocated by the Länder for the distribution of booster vaccines. There is also EUR 124 million registered for the tests. However, this is not agreed with the Länder. You will answer that, but I have already asked Minister Vandenbroucke several times. Time doesn't stop there either. The Länder are on the other side. How far is that file? Has your Minister been able to reach an agreement with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u252	That was a lot of questions. I'll start with the last one, because I have some good news for you right away, Mrs. Depoorter. Mr Vandenbroucke will be here shortly and he will be very happy to reply again to the questions you have asked on several occasions in committee. He will also be able to give you the very latest state of affairs. He is the second speaker following this debate. So you'd better ask him your question, because he'll be able to give you much more details than I do. So you've come to the right place with him. Mrs Merckx, you mentioned the reforms. I briefly explained them in my explanatory statement. Indeed, I did not mention the pension reform, because I think it goes without saying that we are starting another discussion on this. That was also the ambition. The minimum pensions have already been increased, and that was a very important point for us. However, we also consider it important to reward those who work longer. These aspects must be taken into account for us in the debate. Our proposals on fiscal reform are well known, whether it is about abolishing the housing bonus on a second home or tackling the tax advantages for top footballers, a dossier that Mr Vandenbroucke is following. You refer to an overprofit; we have also launched this proposal earlier. Our cards are on the table, but if you ask me what the outcome will be, I cannot answer them. That debate still has to be held with seven parties. For our group, the cards are very clearly on the table, and everyone knows our question. Your question about the standard wage bill. An adjustment in this area is not part of the coalition agreement, we have to be honest about that, it does not say that. The government agreement does not include measures such as the VAT reduction on energy, but it did. In any case, that will not stop Vooruit from looking at all possible options to strengthen purchasing power. I do not need to repeat that we are in favour of reversing the revision of the 2017 wage standard law. We will always argue in favour of this, but if this is not achieved, it is not our attitude to leave it at that and not to take other measures. There are several options for us to ensure that people can pay their invoices at the end of the month. Mr Loones, you implied that you have set a general line. We agreed not to hold thematic debates, so I found it remarkable that you used a third of your time to tell us how good our minister is, what we already knew, and two thirds to talk about the circus. That was a very interesting story, but I couldn't get a lot of alternatives out of it. Thanks for the great story, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, you are making it a little easy not to deal with the 48 million for home nurses. You could also have answered that you know the situation of self-employed workers, or companies, who are also having a difficult time. However, I am disappointed that you do not respond to a pertinent comment from the Court of Auditors. As MPs of Vivaldi, you have a controlling role on the government, don't you? It says in writing that the federal government is taking an essential risk by registering revenue without having an agreement with the federal states. You refer to the Minister responsible. So I can only conclude that a Vivaldi MEP is an effective pusher: press and nod. You know better than that, don't you? Check that government, it's your job, that's what you're paid for!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u254	That concludes the group leaders' tour, since Mr Dallemagne informed me that he was being selected for a family emergency and that he would not be able to speak in the general discussion this evening. Ladies and gentlemen, before allowing the Secretary of State to reply, I propose that you take a ten-minute technical break, which is necessary to update the recordings. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip188x.u255	The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, June 22, 2022 at 9 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 22 June 2022 at 9 p.m.
