ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u1	Madam Minister, shortly before the NATO summit, you and the Prime Minister briefed us on the various issues on the agenda of that summit. In the meantime, of course, we have received a great deal of information from the media about the accession of Finland and Sweden. One question could be, for example, how the decision-making process is going. I understand that a decision of principle has been taken by the government, but when does it come to Parliament? What is the role of Russia and China in the new Strategic Concept? Has the position of those two countries changed compared to that of the previous Strategic Vision? It has been discussed that NATO countries will take on a number of additional supplies of arms and other equipment out of solidarity with Ukraine. What is the specific contribution of Belgium? How was the announcement by the Prime Minister of the expenditure standard of 2%, without a clear budgetary trajectory, received there? Finally, there is the question on which my question was addressed, namely the intervention force. The number of military personnel is being firmly increased. Until now, it was intended to have an intervention force of 40,000 people who could be deployed within 30 days. That number is now being raised firmly, according to the announcement by Secretary-General Stoltenberg, namely 100,000 men within 10 days, 300,000 within 30 days and 500,000 within 180 days, if I have the correct information. All this should be fully operational by 2028. Madam Secretary, what is your reading of the NATO summit? What's your analysis? Does this summit have implications for the Defense Department and for your plans, such as the STAR plan, the military programming law and that sort of thing more? How will the Defense position itself on the permanent presence of our troops on the east flank? Will they be positioned in the Baltic States or rather near the Black Sea, in Romania? How does this positioning relate to developments such as the CaMobile project? Does she have any influence on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u2	Mr President, Minister, there was indeed a great deal to be done at the NATO summit. He was even called historical. However, many things are called historical, but it was certainly a very important NATO summit. Consequently, there is a need for a form of debriefing. I also have a question for the Prime Minister, but we have not been able to hear him about the summit. As far as the military aspect is concerned, however, I think it is appropriate to ask you directly about the consequences for the Belgian Defence of the items on the agenda that were discussed there. This is certainly important in the context of the various plans that lie ahead. For example, we had the STAR plan and the military programming law associated with it. It is therefore important to look at the impact of Belgium on the NATO summit. We have, as the chairman said, a replacement of the NATO Response Force of 40,000 deployable troops within 30 days. They would be replaced by the development of an intervention force, comprising no less than 300,000 men for collective defence and distress throughout Europe. The permanent military presence is now taking shape. I would have liked to have heard from you what we have said about this and what area of action you and the government think is preferable. Would you rather focus on the Baltic region, the Black Sea or both? How do you estimate the impact of the permanent presence at our eastern borders on your STAR plan and the military budget? I also have a question about the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Can you say something about any concessions that have been made to our NATO ally Turkey? At the NATO summit, Turkey's approval of the accession of Finland and Sweden has accelerated. It seems to me that there is something to be said about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, I think I can say that, for this NATO summit, we have worked well upstream on the 2% by 2035, using prudent, realistic and balanced approaches. If we had not done this preparatory work, we would have been drawn into a movement that strongly marked this summit. The numbers that have just been recalled – 100,000, 300,000, etc. – show that we must keep our composure in the face of this demonstration of strength, which is not at all credible. In general, at these summits, it is those who shout the loudest that do the least, as sometimes at political meetings in this Parliament. I never scream. Having said that, I think we should welcome our balanced position. Secondly, there were some disturbing elements, such as this decision by the United States to develop a fleet in Spain on a permanent basis, because they have targets for Africa. NATO is still the world's policeman. Minister, can you confirm that our commitments remain the same, namely an approach to 2% by 2035 that preserves the three Ds and our industry? For now, what we are buying comes exclusively from the United States, they are the ones who benefit from it. Let's think about the F-35. Finally, what about our involvement in research? Do we have enough guarantees to enforce ourselves? Although we are a small country, we are a founding member and have always been respected. I hope that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u4	Madam Minister, a number of questions have already been asked about Sweden and Finland. I would like to join in that. If parliamentary work is to be expected, and it will be done anyway, we must be in the front of the classroom. We must send a clear signal to those two countries and to the world that we are in favour of this and that we are in favour of it. More specifically, can you tell us more about the debates at the table on everything regarding collective defence and the need for NATO Member States to continue to invest in that collective defence and capacity? I am thinking, for example, of artillery and heavy firepower, whether or not on caterpillars. It is clear that these matters can no longer be considered in NATO's doctrine. Countries which do not comply or do not comply with the capacity requirements can be targeted in the future. What exactly was said about that? What are the expectations? My final point is somewhat in line with other questions that have already been asked about the operational plan. Belgium was immediately very active. We have sent troops to Romania and we are also active in Estonia, to which we have also recently visited. If I am not mistaken, we will be active again in Lithuania from September. What are the expectations for the second half of this year? Is there going to be an extra mission? What are the expectations with regard to the operational plan 2023 on collective defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u5	Mr President, will you allow me to speak? If I don't ask for the floor now, can I stop talking later?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u6	Strictly speaking, yes. Strictly speaking, this is a correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but in this important debate I intended to show some flexibility. I assume that, for example, Mr Flahaut wishes to respond. That therefore offers the opportunity to give him the floor. So if you would like to take the floor now, I will give you the opportunity to do so again in the reply, if the House agrees. But please be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u7	Mr President, thank you very much for your flexibility and goodwill. It does work on both sides: last time it was with regard to the government, now with regard to the opposition. I appreciate that. You're a coulant on both sides. That proves your neutrality. Madam Secretary, it was a very important NATO summit. I have heard that all in all it went well, with a positive outcome. My specific question concerns the 2% standard. At some point there was talk of seeing the 2 % standard as a minimum. The norm wouldn't be a ceiling, it would be a planner. Is it true that the 2 % standard is now seen as a minimum standard? What concrete agreements have been reached on the budgetary efforts that NATO Member States must make to achieve this standard? Is the standard being changed? What was the reaction of the other NATO Member States to Belgium's intention to reach 2% by 2035, although no substantial budgetary plan or political agreement has been drawn up for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u8	The Madrid Summit was historic because of the strategic, diplomatic and geopolitical positions that were taken. The unity of allies is certainly one of the strongest messages to remember. The outcome of the summit is crucial for the countries of the Atlantic Alliance and for the European Union. The situation in Ukraine, which was first upset during the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, has worsened further with Russia's unprovoked and unjustified war against the country since February 24. This context refers us to a period that we thought had passed since the end of the Second World War and that of the Cold War. Leaders had a brief exchange with President Zelensky at the summit, before looking at NATO's support for Ukraine. This disturbing security development has led Alliance countries to strengthen their collective deterrent capabilities. Indeed, in response to the invasion of Ukraine, NATO quickly adopted a series of measures in the land, air and sea fields aimed at increasing its vigilance and responsiveness. Belgium contributed to this first effort by sending a contingent to Romania under NATO command. The deployments of Defence personnel in this framework will continue this year in Lithuania and Estonia. A new presence in Romania is being considered as part of our operational commitments. In addition to this immediate response, the allies have decided to strengthen and modernise NATO's force structure in order to meet current and future needs for deterrent and defence. The number of NATO troops that can react quickly thanks to a high level of preparation should increase to 300,000 soldiers. This new force model is intended to offer the alliance defences adapted to the new threat context. This model of strength implies commitments that the Belgian Defence will have to continue to fulfil. Our country will therefore have to show political commitment while maintaining the possibility of contributing to other multilateral, bilateral or national missions abroad and on national territory. Indeed, this new posture in the East must not make us forget other crisis situations elsewhere, particularly in Africa where we intend to maintain our commitments. For this reason, we prefer a dynamic management of our forces through a rotation system rather than permanent parking, in view of our capabilities that will remain engaged in several theatres of operation. Moreover, as you know, I am committed to the reconstruction of our armed forces. After several months of intense work within the government and in connection with Parliament, an additional step was taken in this direction, on 28 June, here in the Defence Committee, with the adoption of the new military programming law in parallel with the STAR Plan, which, for its part, had been approved 11 days earlier by the government. This reconstruction of the defence was already identified as indispensable and decided even before the start of the war in Ukraine. It had also been motivated by the need for a human and material tool capable of supporting society and increasing our resilience thanks to the substantial resources of more than 11 billion investments. Now, the milestones are laid for the reconstruction of the department until 2030. At the same time, the government has confirmed our country's commitment to a defence effort of 2% of GDP by 2035, a defence effort that has been appreciated by our allies. With this commitment, the government has confirmed the four main lines of the STAR plan and has made a political commitment to translate it into action. Firstly, attention should be paid to the staff, with an unprecedented recruitment of 10,000 soldiers during this legislature, which will be extended from 2026 onwards with a recruitment rate of at least 2,800 soldiers per year. This is necessary to maintain the operationality of our army and strengthen the role of social promotion. Secondly, the commitment of Defence in the event of a crisis in Belgium. As we have done for the covid or during the floods, tomorrow, as an actor of resilience, we will also do so in case of a major cyber incident or, among other things, in case of new crises in situations related to climate change. Thirdly, more cooperation and partnerships with the network of the national defence industry and research centres. Because of the constant and ever-accelerating technological developments, the desire to make Defence a driving force for innovation is not only justified but considered a necessity. After all, there can be no sustainable defence without a strong industrial fabric. The increase than defence efforts and the strengthening of the industrial base will allow the development of dual capacities for both civilian and military use. This will also improve our security of supply. Fourthly, the strengthening of the European pillar, with the aim of greater cooperation with other European armies – which is expressed in military language through greater interoperability – as we are doing with the Netherlands in the field of the navy, with Luxembourg in the air field, and with France in the field of the army. With a view to greater European integration and less fragmentation, Belgium is making every effort. This orientation must also allow us to gradually build our own capacities, so that we can act autonomously at European level when we consider it necessary or when the situation so requires. I now come back to the Madrid Summit, which also enabled us to exchange and position ourselves on other issues important to the future of our Alliance. Firstly, there is the accession of Finland and Sweden. The demand for these two historically neutral countries to join marks a major break in our immediate geographical environment and an awareness of the state of international relations following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. This development must recognise that we are entering a new era in which our closest neighbours, who share our view of a rule-based international order, feel so threatened that they now want to join the alliance in order to guarantee their integrity and the security of their people. For the Alliance, accession is also an opportunity to strengthen itself. This development strengthens us in the approach we are defending, that of a European defence pillar, to ensure our security and our strategic autonomy. The second particularly important issue that I would like to return to is, of course, the adoption of the strategic concept. This concept replaces that of 2010 which conceived Russia as a partner, did not mention China, and only mentioned incidental factors such as climate change and social resilience. It goes without saying that the world and the Euro-Atlantic security environment have changed radically over the past twelve years. The strategic concept has therefore been brought into line with the current reality to address emerging threats and challenges. However, our security environment is subject to broader influences such as the rise of China, which cannot be equated with the threats posed by Russia and terrorism. NATO must not be seen as a coalition against China. It must also bear in mind the long-term objective of a lasting relationship with Russia. With regard to the essential tasks of NATO included in the strategic concept, we recognize collective defence as a primus inter pares, without diminishing the importance of the other two core tasks of the Alliance, maintaining the possibility of crisis management operations outside the territory and further developing partnerships. Broader themes such as new technologies, resilience, climate, human security, and the agenda for women, peace and security are in line with our political priorities. The need to cooperate with the European Union and the recognition of its contribution to security and defence is very important for our country, which wants European military efforts within NATO and the European Union to be coherent and mutually reinforcing. I repeat this because it is important that Belgium advocates this strong European pillar within NATO, which would make it more effective. I also participated, together with the Prime Minister, in the signing of the DIANA and Innovation Fund programmes, two technical and complementary mechanisms that will help us to maintain our leading position in emerging and disruptive technologies. Participation in the Fund will enable Allied countries to contribute, if they so wish, to the financing of start-ups working on emerging disruptive technologies and technologies for dual use in key areas for the security of the Alliance. The DIANA incubator programme is aimed at innovative companies in the development of dual-use technologies within NATO. The intended technologies are artificial intelligence, quantum technology, autonomous systems, biotechnology and hypersonic technology. In total, five Belgian research centres belong to the laureates. The average annual costs for Belgium for participation in DIANA and the Innovation Fund are EUR 4 million over the next 15 years. Together, these two mechanisms will mainly support SMEs in the Allied countries and the modernisation of defence. In parallel with this and on the basis of the STAR plan, Belgian defence will also develop a model of incubators and ecosystem creation, in order to promote innovation around military quarters. This will be done in cooperation with companies and university research centres thanks to an unprecedented budget of EUR 1.8 billion. That will enable defense to position itself as an actor of innovation. In conclusion, I would like to talk to you about the Women, Peace and Security panel in which I took part. The organization of this discussion demonstrates the intention to integrate the gender dimension within the Alliance and to work towards the full, equal and meaningful participation of women in decision-making processes. To do this, women leaders of the moment must lay the groundwork for the development and continuity of this integration. It also requires the status of women in our respective armies in order to be able to prepare, at the national level, the women military leaders of tomorrow. While the recognition of diversity within the Defence has already been established, the Department continues to work on the issue and is innovating in this area with the integration of women into special units. Work ensues around the recruitment and image of the department at the origin of the awakening of vocations. Because it is by enabling women to achieve leadership positions in our national military structures that we will also prepare leaders in tomorrow's international structures and that we can also guarantee a real change of mindset in the approach to security issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, last year Mr Francken, Mr Bogaert and myself wrote a book with the provocative title NATO, brain dead or ready for the future? I think NATO has proven more than ever that it is the latter in recent months. The alliance is more alive than ever. I want to thank the Minister for her answers. I assume that Mr Francken will say something about the 2% standard. I have four comments to make myself. Firstly, I believe that the support for the innovation projects has remained somewhat underexploited. It is a good thing that we are taking the lead in this. I believe that this is a very useful contribution to the issues that will increasingly be on the agenda in the coming years, including in the war zone. Secondly, you are examining the possibility of an additional mission in Romania. I can tell you that our group will support the necessary decisions. Thirdly, you mentioned the historic importance of the approval process for Finland and Sweden. I think it would be useful for the government to submit the draft quickly to Parliament on this matter. I do not know whether that will be the case in our committee or the Foreign Affairs Committee. I certainly hope that Parliament will get to grips with the matter quickly. I believe that such cooperation agreements are more positive than other cooperation agreements on the table today. Fourthly, the concrete intervention force will require the use of military forces. How this will happen, in rotation command and in combination with other commands, still needs to be looked at. However, I have not heard what that will mean in concrete terms? What extra bet will that require? I assume that we will come back to this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive but not comprehensive answer. We will undoubtedly come back to that at a later date. NATO, which was perceived as brain dead, was an organ in identity crisis. It's the least we can say. Because of the circumstances, NATO has been given a wake-up call and has started to do so. That too is the least we can say. You said that the strategic concept was being changed. That's right. That is one of the positive things that emerged from the NATO summit. There is renewed focus on Russia and China is also not forgotten. You did not mention the accession of Finland and Sweden, and in particular the possible concessions made to Turkey. I understand that you cannot just say that in a public sitting, but I am not the only one who fears that there will have been a lot of opposition to getting Turkey to support accession. It was discussed the approximation of national legislation on terrorism and the abandonment of the protection of PKK supporters and there would have been agreements on extradition, but, as has been said, this will be discussed with the Prime Minister at a later date. Positive aspects remain the focus on innovation and European cooperation, where possible. As far as we are concerned, it must always be on a voluntary basis. We also welcome the principle of the intervention force in response to the new acute threat context. On the other hand, the proposals of the Belgian Defence Department and the crucial choices made in the STAR plan will not have been very impressed, even if they contain some good points. Finally, you say that NATO was satisfied with the commitment made by Belgium by 2035. I wonder whether this is actually the case. Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom calls for 2.5 % by 2030. I hope you are not happy with a dead sparrow; in any case, I believe that the impression we have made in Madrid has been rather limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Because of the war in Ukraine, the situation has indeed changed somewhat, indeed the accession of Sweden and Finland is historic. It was less highlighted, but it is good that NATO has adopted the strategic concept, setting priorities for the next ten years. There is a great deal of attention to Russia, and that is probably why they want to build up 300,000 soldiers, I understand. On the other hand, I heard an expert say that we should not stare at Russia like rabbits at a light box alone. There are still global threats today, but I do find them in the strategic concept. You have already referred to climate warming, but there is also the protection of our critical infrastructure such as food supply and the health system. Fortunately, the threat of further building nuclear weapons is also mentioned as something to worry about. Climate change is a real priority in NATO's strategic concept. That is a good thing. It is argued that work should also be done on its own footprint. Finally, the Secretary-General of NATO has also referred to the Arctic region, which we need military attention for. After all, there is a huge amount of valuable raw materials available and we need to think carefully about how to deal with it. That's all good. As far as the budget is concerned, it is beginning to look like a bid here, Mrs Ponthier, we made an important commitment at the NATO summit, that is clear. This commitment is made under conditions, something that we will always keep in mind: European integration, the social return that must be there, the dual capacity that you talked about and the investment in innovation that can contribute to this. We are pleased with what you have said about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for your reassuring answers, which confirm Belgium's prudence and balanced position in Madrid. We recalled our priorities, in particular the European priority. Our position is also balanced with regard to our concerns about Africa. We are not necessarily ready to allow ourselves to dictate our behaviour and we retain some autonomy. Indeed, NATO's basic treaties state that each ally remains sovereign in its decisions. It is good to remind him from time to time, even if it is not a pleasure. As far as Africa is concerned, I understand the decision taken in Madrid, but I would like to be able to clarify it. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss it in other rooms. There were two gifts in Madrid: the fact that they were welcomed to Madrid, with concerns about the Sahel, and the fact that Poland comes out with a strengthening of the American presence on its territory. We continue to intensify our efforts, but we do nothing to calm things down. By adding, it's going to go wrong at some point. As far as ratification is concerned, for some things that are requested by some people or by some States, it goes very quickly. NATO treaties are being ratified faster than social security treaties in some Third World countries. Finally, NATO's buildings in Evere will have to accommodate the two new member countries. I would remind you that we have financed these buildings and that this should be added to our commitment to NATO in the long term, with solidarity never taken in default. It does not count in the 2%, but it is a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u13	Madam Minister, you say that the NATO alliance members, provided a positive attitude, received the 2% by 2035. I'd like to believe that. We will see how the agenda is now effectively completed in the context of defence planning and capabilities, within the NATO story by Belgium, and to what extent we can still look at the practice we have applied for years to double our commitments. We could always deliver to EU-battle groups and we could supply the same troops to NATO in parallel. We used to do that all the time, thinking that it wouldn't turn out like this and that eventually it would. That may have been done in the future. Everything related to planning, filling gaps and obligations remains a very topical issue. The debate on the 2% is certainly not over. We need a budgetary framework. Mr De Vriendt of the Green Group believes that the Minister should come forward with a proposal to the government. I look forward to hearing your proposal. I will continue to question you about this. It's all way too noncommittal. Last Friday, at the request of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers approved the accession of Finland and Sweden. That is a good thing. Take this to Parliament as soon as possible and ask for urgency. Instead of asking for urgency on an extradition treaty with Iran, it would be better to ask for urgency for the vote on the treaty on the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. This can then be voted on by 21 July. That would be a good thing and a much more positive story than that scandalous collaboration agreement with Iran. Hopefully Turkey will remain reasonable. The first cape was taken, but the second cape is, of course, ratification by the Turkish Parliament. They are now asking for the agreed extraditions from Sweden to Turkey for ratification. That, of course, threatens to be a huge legal process, including for the Swedish courts. It could take a long time for that to be finalized. Sweden, after all, is a state of law and is also a member of the European Union and has to respect European law in the field of extradition. I expect serious problems there, especially if the Turks continue to demand that these extraditions be carried out before ratification by the Turkish Parliament. Legally, that could be used for years, so we still have years to wait for these two new allies to become effective members. Madam Secretary, we must follow that up. That's your job, too. And we will continue to monitor it here in Parliament, but also in the NATO Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u14	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u15	Mr Verduyckt, the way in which the social return of the aforementioned purchases of Defence is monitored and monitored was recently explained, on 20 April 2022, by representatives of the FPS Economy, at the meeting held to the attention of the members of the Special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. Since I took office, as you know, one of my main concerns has been to get as many economic returns as possible in the context of the contracts awarded by the previous legislature and, of course, in the future as well. With regard to the US Air Force's F-16 modification and maintenance programme in Europe, it is not linked to the return to society under the Belgian F-35 programme. There is therefore no link between the two programmes. Nor will I comment on the choices made in the 2016 Strategic Vision in terms of markets and societal returns. My intention with the STAR Plan and the related programming law is to involve the Belgian industry more upstream in the development processes of tomorrow's systems and thus to bring more returns to the Belgian economy and industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u16	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. In the past, we have always asked questions about this purchase and criticised it. This economic return has always been mentioned, but the current figures do not correspond to what we were told. That is not your responsibility, but it is your responsibility to make the best of this situation now. I thought it was important to stress once again that it is a great pity that such a positive story was linked to it, while reality turns out to be quite different.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u17	Madam Minister, the Dutch Government has a good tradition of transparency with, for example, progress and deviation reports on current dossiers. On 18 May the Dutch government delivered such a derogation report to the House of Representatives. It contains a striking passage on the common frigat dossier. I quote: "The D phase has shown that the design needs to be adapted on the basis of the requirements for a scalable and future-proof frigate. The ship needs to expand to accommodate the demand package. Together with the suppliers, more time is needed to complete the design." Last week, under the military programming law, you said that the design of the frigates should indeed be modified. They need to get bigger, making them too unstable, so one has to go back to the drawing board. We also heard that the military programming law does not provide for full armament of the VLS and that there is no additional budget for the entire project. The question I tabled on this subject is, of course, going to lapse, because we have already received an answer to it. Can you give an additional explanation of the reasons for the extension of the design and, on the other hand, what this means in concrete terms for the design of the frigate? How will that weigh on the dimensions and the total displacement of the frigate? What additional costs are involved? Will the project be delayed? Do you share our view that a progress and deviation report, as in the Dutch House of Representatives, could also be a useful instrument for us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u18	Mr Buysrogge, you will not be surprised that my answer is somewhat superfluous, given what I replied to you on 28 June last in the context of the debates on the STAR plan and the military programming law, since the subject has already been discussed there. The 2017 Military Programming Act provides for the purchase of two multipurpose frigates, amounting to €1 billion. According to the 2016 strategic plan, this amount was sufficient to fully equip these two frigates in order to be able to carry out all the assignments assigned to this type of ship. In 2018 a MOU was negotiated with the Netherlands to replace the current M-frigates. The four ships, two for the Netherlands and two for Belgium, should be available to the end user by the end of 2030 at the latest. It soon appeared that the initial amount was insufficient to achieve the stated objectives. Among the previous governments, Belgium and the Netherlands agreed on the basic configuration of the new frigates, so that there is coherence between the planned ceiling budget of the MOU and the frigate. It focused on the submarine control capacity of future frigates, with reduced attention to self-defense equipment, in order to withstand air and surface threats in an independent way. Both Dutch and Belgian ships will have a number of additional systems, provisions for, which are different for both countries. There is no budgetary space for those provisions in the 2017 Programming Act, except to the detriment of other programmes. The previous government also did not provide an additional budget for the new frigates. The final episode of this dossier is that early 2022 it was found that an imbalance had arisen between the weight of the ship and the buoyancy of the ship. This has increased the length and water displacement of the design. No detailed cost structure of the new design has yet been developed. My priorities in this dossier are the operationality of future frigates and, above all, the safety of the crew. I have therefore asked the Defence Staff to respect these priorities in the further negotiations in this dossier and to keep me regularly informed of the budgetary and operational consequences of the original underestimation of the cost of that project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although I really do not know how to proceed with this dossier. You say that you will have to sit around the drawing board again, but you are not prepared to provide additional resources. What does that mean for the project? I hope that doesn't torpedo the project. I hope that not everything goes to the Army, but that there will still be sufficient capacity to realise that important project effectively. For such large projects it is normal that there are some changes during the course of the course. If you are not prepared to allocate additional funds to this, because you will have to be removed elsewhere, you will be placing a very large mortgage on that project. I'm holding my heart for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u20	Maybe read my answer again, because I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u21	Question No 55028336C by Mr Francken will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u22	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u23	Mr Pillen, the works in the aviation hall are part of a global restoration project of the roofs of the museums of Art and History, Autoworld and the Royal Army Museum. The budget for these works has been drawn up by the Government of the Buildings. The work has caused dust that could potentially be harmful. The hall was closed preventively until the dust could be analysed and it could be said with certainty that workers and the public are not at risk. The work on the rooftops of the museums of the Cinquantenaire Park will take some time. The yard is still running. The Aerodrome Hall has been re-accessible since 9 June. The preventive closure of the aviation hall and its renewal for the aforementioned safety reasons were announced on the website and on the social networks of the War Heritage Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u25	I would like to refer to the detailed written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u26	On 30 April 2020, the Walloon Government gave a mandate to SOGEPA to negotiate the purchase and redevelopment of the Carsidsite, called Porte Ouest, in Charleroi. In December 2020, a multidisciplinary team led by the design agency Studio Viganò was tasked with the elaboration of a master plan, a long-term route map for the redevelopment of the site. The master plan of September 2021 provides for the construction of the Quarter of the Future on an area of about 30 hectares. The site Train 600 is being renovated in accordance with the legislative framework for soil management and sanitation in the Walloon Region. The scope of the site's renovation will vary according to the planned activities. The conditions for the purchase of the site are currently being studied. The research and clean-up of the soil are the responsibility of the owner. Defense will acquire the sanitized land at the market price. Defense is also studying the purchase of a training ground. The study is still ongoing and there are several options on the table. The power plant and the surrounding area, in total about 40 hectares, is indeed one of the options on the table. The STAR Plan provides for close cooperation between military entities and the local ecosystem. The creation of a quarter of an hour will strengthen the existing ecosystem. It will act as a real lever for the development of the site. Certain activities of the defence community will be part of the dynamics of existing or emerging economic clusters. Since January 2021 at the start of the design of the master plan, there has been regular cooperation and consultation with local stakeholders. Regular meetings of working groups on different aspects to optimise cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u27	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I will provide you with a number of written questions on this, because it is still not quite clear to me how the decision on the location was made and why those grounds were specifically selected, even though there is a heavy burden on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u28	Madam Secretary, in 2020 an agreement was reached on an expulsion allowance between the Government and Defence. A year later, however, this was put away again. In the margins of the POP plan, you let it slip that it was not going to happen. In your reply of 10 March 2021, you said that the compensation no longer made sense and that the funds provided would be included in the general wage increase. As a reason, you indicated that it would lead to discrimination in the current population and that in the future it was the government's intention to allow soldiers to work closer to their home. However, these new barracks will not be realized in the short term, and a removal fee with the high fuel prices could bring relief to our military today, as they have to cover an above average number of kilometres compared to the citizens. Madam Secretary, what is the Defence Department doing at the moment to reduce the extraordinary fuel costs of its staff for commuting? Are actions being taken to this end? Does the DOD receive an increasing number of complaints from the personnel? Does the DOD see any increase in the attrition linked to it? The trade unions would have consulted you on 8 June 2022 to get the removal allowance back on the table. Can you confirm this? Will you put the investigation back on the agenda? How much extra money will you need if you want to grant a removal allowance this year? Where would you look for it? The trade unions report an average commuting distance of 160 km to and from the workforce. Can you confirm this figure?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u29	Mr Francken, I understand the concerns of the VSOA trade union. Today, the impact of the increase in energy prices on purchasing power is one of the main concerns of our fellow citizens and especially those with the smallest incomes. Defence provides for the allowance for commuting in the form of a free subscription for public transport or a bicycle fee. Provision is also made for the provision of service vehicles or the payment of transport costs for service transfers. There is also the possibility of teleworking for up to three days on a weekly basis, if the nature of the function so permits. In addition, it is currently studying the possibility of completing the 38 hours' work week on four days. These latter two measures should allow the military to reduce the number of commuting journeys at least during part of their career. Finally, as fortunately is the case for all Belgians, the wages of defence personnel are adjusted every time the central index is exceeded. I probably do not need to remind you that the POP plan has put an end to the many years of use of the human resources budget as a closing point for the global defence budget. For example, the wageable masts for the military have recently been revised. A further step in wage increases will be taken in 2023 and full effect will be achieved from 2024 onwards. For the civilian personnel of Defence, any action will depend on the public office. There was no consultation with the trade unions on 8 June 2022. However, a trade union wrote to me asking me to re-record the expulsion allowance project. However, the removal allowance has never been seen as a mileage compensation, but as a compensation given the specificity of the military career that some of the defence staff are experiencing with a high rate of change. In consultation with the trade unions and the defence staff, the POP Plan chose to use the basis of the monetary valorisation of labour, salary, rather than an accumulation of extra-legal benefits, which contribute to increasing the difference between the last salary and the pension. In 2019 it was established that the average distance between the place of residence and the normal place of work of the military is approximately 50 kilometres, i.e. 100 kilometres back and forth. This relatively high distance between the residence and the workshop is due to the successive closures of barracks. With the Quarter Plan, which was approved by the government on 22 July, I put an end to it. There will therefore be an end to the closure of quarters and the abolition of units, which will lead to greater stability for defence personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that you say that the removal fee is not mentioned and that you do not like it either. Thanks to the POP plan, wages will be added, but this is not yet the case for this year, and it will still be very limited next year, while, of course, the costs are very high. An average of 100 kilometers a day back and forth is not nothing, that costs a lot. Anyway, you've given some counter-arguments. We'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u31	Madam Minister, the military programming law and the STAR plan contain a lot of investments and an ambitious path towards research and development. A lot of things we like about that. A good, transparent and pure relationship with the defence industry must allow our companies to take the necessary steps, which will strengthen our economy and the purchasing power of our people. We discussed the subject in part last week, but my questions about the various research and development dossiers are a little more specific. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u32	The amount of EUR 1.8 billion is a global amount for research and technology, TIERS and participation in major programmes and is spread over the period 2022 to 2030. These resources will strengthen security and defence policy, establish partnerships between Defence, our industry and our research institutions in accordance with the triple helix model, and ensure participation in major European long-term development programmes. The resources will thus contribute to the greater strategic autonomy of Europe and Belgium in particular. The political choice of projects and the modalities will still be determined. As Minister of Defence, I do not have any say in the industrial and sectoral distribution of the country and in the balance in the return between the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-06-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic847x.u33	Your answer remains a little too shallow. I had asked you a number of questions about the choices in favour of SCAF and to the detriment of the TEMPEST programme, about the commitment. It is by no means my intention that waffle iron policy should be pursued, but the necessary balances should be maintained. I have not received a sufficient response, but I am sure that we can continue to do so in future discussions.
