ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u1	Madam Minister, I would be quite brief, and I shall limit myself to three purely technical questions on the extension of two reactors. The first is timing. Are transitional solutions foreseen? Indeed, one speaks of a stop between 2025 and 2027, even for adaptation work. Is there more clarity on the guidelines? Concerning the purchase of nuclear fuels, therefore uranium, we know that part of the supply of uranium from Synatom comes from Russia. Are solutions to diversify our uranium supply envisaged by Synatom, the government or both for new orders for the possible extension – since nothing is yet fully done? Where are the negotiations with ENGIE? Very clear, very firm benchmarks have been set by the federal government. I am thinking of the polluter-pays principle and only two reactors over the ten-year period. I wonder what is happening with the negotiation of a possible rent that ENGIE Electrabel should pay to the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u2	Madam Minister, the Council of Ministers has decided on a negotiating mandate to discuss with ENGIE an extension of the nuclear units of Objective 4 and Tihange 3 for ten years. The government has agreed on a preliminary draft law to finalise that agreement and to prepare the call for tenders for the environmental impact report. It is not so clear what stage things are now in. We hear from the press that ENGIE has also put the construction of the plant in Vilvoorde on the table. Where is all this now? What's your timeline? What are the next regulatory steps? When can you give Parliament more details on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u3	Minister, the government has decided on a series of initiatives to extend the activities of the Doel 3 and Tihange 4 nuclear reactors by 10 years. These initiatives include the discussion of the effects of this extension on CRM with the European Commission, the negotiation of the conditions for the extension of reactors with Engie - the issue of nuclear rent and investments - and the drafting of a bill allowing this extension. In general, can we get your feedback on the status of these initiatives? Can we get more information on the calendar? We have come to the conclusion that the preliminary draft law on the extension of the two reactors has been approved by the Council of Ministers. Can you tell us what date it will be submitted to our assembly? Do we know whether the extension of the activities of Doel 3 and Tihange 4 will require further validation of the CRM by the European Commission, as was the case on 27 August 2021? Finally, on 30 March, the government decided not to hold an auction for the construction of new gas plants in addition to those of the Awirs and Seraing. This decision is based on the fact that the two nuclear reactors could participate in supply during the winter of 2026-2027. Can you inform us about the 1.6 GW nuclear capacity availability guarantees from this period?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u4	Madam Minister, in today's topical debate on the key issue, we are discussing subjects that we would not have thought had anything to do with. In the Mediahuis newspapers, we read that Engie Electrabel, in the negotiations that you and the Prime Minister are conducting on the possible extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3, in implementation of the government decision, in addition to half a billion euros of grants to the Les Awires plant, which has been taken into account under the CRM, and in addition to financial guarantees for Objective 4 and Tihange 3, now also provides subsidies for the Vilvoorde gas plant. However, the company has already made 2.6 billion overprofits in the energy crisis. Unbelievable! Everywhere there's money to pick up, Engie Electrabel wants to pick it up. You could actually make such a concession quite easily, because you only need to raise the auction volume in the CRM at the next T-4 auctions in such a way that there is room for an additional subsidised gas plant. However, it is not because Engie Electrabel asks you to do so. We are stunned by the unbelievable profit appetite of that company. I hope you'll limit yourself to that. Will you confirm that the Vilvoorde gas plant is also the subject of negotiations with Engie Electrabel? What are you going to do with that if it is?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the government recently decided to extend two nuclear reactors – a little late and a little too little, in my opinion, but that is the reality. He has given you and the Prime Minister the complex task of negotiating with ENGIE the terms of this extension. In this context, a legislative amendment is needed. You have tabled, on first reading, a text that amends Article 4, the only Article 4. It is an extremely laconic text, and probably insufficient, since such an extension requires a number of other legislations. Since we are in a topical debate, I am expanding the scope of my question and I am asking you what other legislation should be amended to allow this extension. As for the start of negotiations, it seems that one or two meetings have already taken place between the government, its representatives, yourself, or the Prime Minister alone, or you two together, with ENGIE. Could you tell me what was the set of negotiators? What were they on the table? Each party has interests that converge to a certain point. What is converging for the state is not necessarily converging for ENGIE. During the week of April 6, Ms. MacGregor stated that a ten-year extension for them was insufficient and that it was a question of requesting a 20-year extension, or accepting only a 20-year extension. On the other hand, there is an impact on the CRM, as the model you chose is changed by the occurrence of this government decision. What will be the situation in terms of exchanges with the European Commission in relation to CRM? Should we notify the European Commission of the extension of these two reactors? A working group has been set up, apparently to accompany and advise you in this context. What functions are represented in this working group? Could you provide an update on the status of these negotiations, the methods you want to defend them and the methods you want to use to advance the government's point of view. I come to one last detail, which is not the least: it is the outcome of these negotiations. According to the Prime Minister, they are expected to be completed by the end of June at the latest. Mr.Clamadieu indicated, shortly after his reappointment as Chairman of the Board of Directors, that they could last until the end of the summer. So what is your negotiating schedule? Have ENGIE and the Belgian State agreed on a deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u6	Madam President, I have a question in connection with the topical and urgent debate. I was somewhat surprised by Mr Thierry Warmoes' introductory remarks just now. He said that there are issues here that have nothing to do with the case. Of course, that's not true. The negotiations bring together many thematic lines, which have already been extensively discussed here. Firstly, it concerns the European Commission with regard to the extension and the current CRM. Where are we with that? Secondly, it is about the calendar. A few reports were published in the media in June and August. What is the status of the negotiation process? I know that the negotiations are not being conducted publicly, but I think it is only natural that this committee should want to know which calendar you are using. There is, of course, the link with the legislation, namely the 2003 amendment of the law which should eventually allow for the extension. There are also concerns about security of supply in the period 2026-2027, the uncertainty about the gas plant in Vilvoorde and whether or not there will be a third power station, the volume of auction and so on. The uranium was also discussed entirely. What is the situation with regard to the Russian-Ukrainian crisis? Perhaps everything will come together in the task force Mrs Marghem mentioned. I would also like some clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u7	Colleagues, there are no more questions in this debate. I thank all those who have managed to respect the two-minute speaking time. Let's try, as much as possible, to keep to the timing. Minister, in theory, you have five minutes to answer us. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u8	Madam President, it is indeed a delicate balance to inform Parliament as well as possible on the one hand and not to conduct negotiations on the other hand. It is ultimately the result that counts. We want to achieve a positive result, as you can see from the volume decision we have taken. For our part, therefore, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the negotiations are successful. The calendar is also clear: early June. The calendar is clear and important because of legal certainty in this country. It concerns the projects already selected in the CRM and those which could still be developed under the CRM for these or subsequent auctions. Finally, of course, it is also about extending the lifespan itself. This cannot continue and therefore requires a steady pace of work so that predictability can be given to the various actors in this country. Energy policy is also dependent on this certainty and predictability. The preliminary draft legislative amendment on the extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3 was adopted at first reading at the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2022. This amendment can of course only be dealt with in Parliament after the EIA study has been carried out. The cross-border public consultation has taken place and the EIA assessment has been approved. Since the extension of the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2, we know that there can be no light transition. If one decides not to comply with the required cases, the law before the Constitutional Court will be destroyed. There is also a regularization of Objective 1 and Objective 2 with which we also want to come to Parliament. We have, of course, learned a number of things from that situation. For example, we have now asked the EIA to reach 1,000 kilometres around the nuclear power plant, and we must do so again now before we can come to Parliament. Of course, we have already adopted the law at first reading, in order to indicate that we are not going to let things go but to grab them with both hands. Discussions with the operator, Engie Electrabel, have now begun. As I said, we are doing everything we can to make it work. This means that the necessary discretion must be exercised. It goes without saying that I will propose and explain the outcome of that discussion in committee. Mr Ben Achour, you had questions about the European Commission. Discussions with the Commission are also ongoing. In any event, under EU state aid rules, there is no need to call into question contracts awarded under an approved aid mechanism. The results of last year's auction, including that of March of that year, are therefore retained. As regards the forthcoming auctions, the Commission is aware of the new world in which we live with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Discussions are now constructive and ongoing. On March 30, the government set the volume for the T-4 auction for the year 2026. We have indeed taken into account the availability of two nuclear units, Doel 4 and Tihange 3, by deducing this capacity from the demand curve as an ineligible capacity. For our part, we will do everything possible to ensure that the negotiations on these two units succeed. If there is a problem, we will take the necessary action. We do not take any risk with security of supply. I come to the other questions about the link with the CRM and Vilvoorde. Mr Warmoes, as you put it, it seems as if the CRM mechanism can be used as it should be. As discussed several times here in the Committee, CRM is a technology-neutral investment mechanism in capacity to ensure security of supply. This is a legal process established in this Parliament that starts almost a year and a half earlier with public consultations on the input data for the scenarios to be used and the calibration report of Elijah. That process results in a volume decision, more than a year later. Before I take the volume decision together with the Council of Ministers, it will be submitted to this committee first. We discussed the volume decision here in committee. I recall from the debate that this was mainly about other elements, but the consultation of Parliament has always taken place. This whole mechanism is also based on European legislation and has been approved by the European Commission. We also found that the auction that took place was a competitive process. In general terms, therefore, I do not see how the Vilvoorde gas plant could be part of the negotiations. In more specific and concrete terms, too, I would say that the Vilvoorde gas plant is not part of the negotiations. Whether or not capacity is developed in this country by when, and whether or not an operator relies on support for it, is part of the CRM procedure and is dealt with there. There is no link to the conversations we are having with ENGIE Electrabel about the nuclear extension of Objective 4 and Tihange 3. For Vilvoorde I can add, now that we have had the rerun, that having an environmental permit is the basic requirement before developing, building and operating anything. Until today, the plant in Vilvoorde does not have an environmental permit. I come back to the questions raised by Mr Cogolati concerning the supply of uranium. In the meantime, we all know that 20% of the uranium in Belgium comes from Russia and 19.7% from Kazakhstan. The quantities of uranium coming either from Russia or from countries under Russia's influence are still significant. Responsibility for security of nuclear supply is regulated at Euratom level and not at Member State level. As I have already said, there is no problem with the supply of uranium by 2025 because of the contracts that have already been established. Synatom's purchasing policy is to give no more than 25% of the market share to each supplier. Euratom and its supply agency have strong solidarity mechanisms to ensure high security of nuclear supply, including loans, uranium swaps between operators. Euratom and the Member States have a diversified supply policy and technical resources to compensate for a halt in the supply of uranium and conversion services from Russia. Euratom intervention in the nuclear material market, as was the case in the 1990s, remains possible in the event of a serious deterioration of the uranium market. As I have already mentioned, there is a Russian task force that I have set up in particular to look after the energies we import. This includes imported gas up to 6% and imported oil up to 30%. Uranium is an integral part of this task force to be evaluated as well. It comes from 20 per cent of Russia and 20 per cent of Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. The most important thing for us is the 100% renewable target. We must even accelerate this transition. It is felt in your response to protect the household portfolio, which is now hit hard by the surge in energy prices, for the climate, as the IPCC recently pointed out, and for the security and peace of the continent. I welcome your decision to include fossil fuels, coal, gas, oil and uranium. When I hear your figures, I think it is important that we open our eyes, wake up our consciences in Europe and try at all costs to dry up the war machine launched by Putin's regime against Ukraine, an independent and democratic country. It is not by pouring euros into Gazprom or Rosatom that we are going to protect the civilian population. We will continue to defend the safest, most effective solution for the climate but also the least costly one to reach this decarbonized world as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u10	Madam Minister, it is indeed very important that the result is there. In the corridors it is said that the negotiations may be decided, but it is still being considered whether these power stations will remain open. I have the impression that you say here that you want them to be open. This also proves the draft law that you adopted at first reading on your birthday. However, sufficient progress must also be made, because this dossier has gone from one delay to another, hoping that the decision should not be taken. I think we should have made that decision when we had the best cards for that. Today you say in a newspaper that you might have better cards at ENGIE than you thought. We could have avoided a lot of problems if we had dealt with them in a different way. We will continue to monitor this closely until you come up with a result. I think it is very important for everyone that these two plants, and preferably even more, remain open as long as possible, because that makes us as independent as possible. If we want to generate a million kilowatt-hours of electricity, we need 145 tonnes of natural gas and four kilograms of enriched uranium. That was the slope you were looking at before March. Those are just a little different numbers. We must also take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u11	Minister, thank you for these clear answers, and I would like to take advantage of my reply to remind you of a series of issues. The first, and not the least, is the rent. This will be one of the main issues in the negotiations with Engie. This pension must be as high as possible because it is necessary to finance the energy transition, but we could also extend the social rate, as you know, which we want to maintain. The second issue is compliance with the June deadline. I don't think we should underestimate its importance. This is absolutely necessary if we are to have a sufficiently clear view of security of supply in view of the launch of the October 2022 auction. We must be clear about this early enough before we launch the auctions. I would remind you that the pre-qualifications for these auctions are set for June 15. So calendars are going to hit each other. You have confirmed that both units are included in the volume calculation for auction 2026. This adds an obligation of outcome to the negotiations for these extensions. I would also like to draw attention to the prospect of having these two operational plants in 2026. As a result, the stakes of know-how and that of the advanced skills of our technicians, who are already beginning to respond to the sirens of the French nuclear industry or the Dutch industry, are becoming clearer. It is essential to be careful about this in order to keep the skills at home. You have confirmed that as far as CRM is concerned, there is no challenge on the part of the commission for the past auction. On the other hand, you have confirmed in your remarks that this was not the case after 2025. It will therefore be necessary to be particularly vigilant in the validation of the mechanism after 2025, otherwise we would risk losing both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u12	Madam Secretary, I can keep my reply brief. I thought the subject was important enough to ask you a question about it. You have made it quite clear, although in general terms, that the Vilvoorde plant, which does not have an environmental permit, which is not within your competence, is not involved in the negotiations, of which you are aware. With regard to the CRM itself and its creation, you have, among other things, repeated the figures, which I will not go into more detail. Choices are always made on the basis of figures, and this can be done in the future. Like Mr Wollants, I look forward to the results of the negotiations, which you will be presenting to our Energy Committee. I do not need to repeat that we are suspicious of the cost of extending the life of nuclear power stations, at the expense of the taxpayer, especially in view of Engie's excess profits, but I will return to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u13	Madam President, I thank the Minister for her very general answers, which swept away all the very specific questions with relatively evasive elements of answer. Nevertheless, the important points are there. It is true that it is not in Parliament that we negotiate, but we do it discreetly. I will repeat the words of a previous speaker: it is ultimately the result that will count, and it is only on that one that you will be judged, as well as on the government. Security of supply should be guaranteed and not just how. To follow the government's decision accurately, it will be with the electricity generation of the extension of these two plants, that it will be important to see the operation by the end of 2025 as planned. We will follow this file very carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u14	Madam Minister, I understand that a balance must always be sought in negotiations. You didn't say anything about the nuclear commission. There is also a need for balance in this respect. You have legal work to do and I suspect that the operator is also very interested in this. Then there are the excess profits, the current nuclear interest rate and the idea that you launched in the press today. You would also have received an opinion from the CREG, advice that is not yet available online. We hope to get that as soon as possible. So there are a lot of issues that you will have to come back to, either through draft legislation or through reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u15	Colleagues, I apologize. Indeed, in a topical debate, when one is not inscribed, one can either ask the question or reply. So I made a mistake. However, we are very pleased to have heard both the question and the reply. From now on, I will be more strict on this methodological aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u16	Madam Minister, in response to an earlier question, you indicated that the fuel oil price had not risen sufficiently to lead to a higher subsidy through the Social Heating Fund. However, that seems to be different now. This would increase the maximum period of intervention to EUR 300 per applicant. The government has also communicated that EUR 17 million would be added to the Fuel Oil Fund. In recent years, some EUR 16 million have been paid out, while the budget has always been much higher. The increase we are now talking about would bring resources to threefold expenditure in recent years. That leads to a number of questions. On what basis was the increase foreseen? How much will be fully available for the Fund? To what extent has the number of applications from the Social Heating Fund already increased? How many beneficiaries are expected in 2022 in view of the increase in the amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u17	Mr Wollants, over the past ten years the intervention has always been EUR 0.14 per litre, because the fuel oil price has always been below the threshold of the lowest intervention disc, namely EUR 0.97 per litre. The maximum intervention for the reduction of 1,500 litres has then been converted into 210 euros. The Royal Decree of 27 March 20019 provides for seven discs, starting from a price below 0,97 euros per litre to a price equal to or more than 1,095 euros per litre. The difference between the discs takes place in steps of 2.5 euro cents, while the corresponding intervention increases by 1 euro cents each time. In 2022, the price increase is that we go straight from the lowest disc to the highest one, with an intervention of 0.20 euros per litre. This gives a maximum of EUR 300, as you have also indicated. However, the price goes well beyond the threshold of the highest intervention disc. For the vulnerable group assisting the fund, 0.20 euros per litre at a price of 1.1470 euros or rounded 1.15 euros per litre and 1.26 euros per litre today means too little. The intervention discs and the corresponding interventions per litre, as included in the Royal Decree of 27 March 2009, are now running after the facts. That is why we decided to increase the intervention per litre. EUR 17 million is foreseen for this purpose. The concrete implementation will take place through an adaptation of the Royal Decree, for which the Minister for Social Integration takes the initiative. Thus, together with the existing subsidy, the sector contribution and the additional funding, 43 million euro will be available for interventions through the Social Heating Fund in 2022. During the lockdown, many people lost their way to the OCMW, despite the permanence and availability of social assistants. The OCMWs that used digital application procedures found that this medium did not offer a solution. The target group, including the elderly and people with a very low income, does not have a PC or is not familiar with digital tools. In the meantime, many OMCWs have confirmed that they received a very large number of applications at the beginning of 2022, which is encouraging. During the first quarter, the Social Heating Fund plans information campaigns to encourage and inform target groups so that they can continue to find their way to the OMCW. People have up to 60 days after a purchase time to submit an application. For 2022, therefore, I cannot provide an evolution of the number of applications. However, the fund expects a sharp increase due to the relaxation of the corona measures and of course also because of the much higher prices. For 2022, the Fund expects 89,700 beneficiaries, representing 8,500 families with a flat-rate allowance and 81,200 families with an allowance per litre. This means that we return to the order of magnitudes of 2019, after a strong fall in the number of applications in 2020 and 2021, each time less than 75,000 per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u18	Madam Secretary, I look forward to further developments in this area. I am asking the question because in the past there has been a lot of discussion here about the Social Heating Fund, which for years has been EUR 30 million in the budget. However, that amount has never been reached in recent years. I was therefore somewhat surprised that the increase of EUR 17 million you expected would be integrated into the fund, while there is already a rather large buffer. Of course, we will have to keep following up on this matter, but with the number of beneficiaries you are describing, I am not going to get anywhere near that EUR 43 million. However, we will have to look at how things are going to evolve later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u19	Madam Chair, Minister, I will respond in writing. Indeed, I imagine that your answer will be just as technical as the questions I have tabled and to which I am referring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u20	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, our country has put an end to any cooperation with Russia and Belarus in the nuclear field since the invasion of Ukraine. I am not aware of the nuclear licences to operate Rosatom's subsidiaries on Belgian territory. This can be confirmed by Minister Annelies Verlinden. I will not allow any exports of nuclear goods or technologies to Russia. The Lead-Bismuth Eutectic (LBE) from MYRRHA is not prepared in connection with Russia. The supply of LBE is in Germany. There are other suppliers in Europe, including Belgium. The SCK CEN sent me a list of Russian institutes with which bilateral projects were under way, notably with Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University, Institute for Nuclear Research of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Russian Science Foundation and the Kurchatov Institute. Russian scientific institutes are present in two European projects involving the SCK CEN:Russian Federation Institute for Physics and Power Engineering for the PATRICIA project and the Rosatom Technical Academy for the ENEN-II+ project. Rosatom participates in the framework agreement with several organizations of the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency on nuclear education, skills and technology. Rosatom also participates in the Task Force Closing fuel cycle and P&T. All SCK CEN collaborations directly or indirectly through European research programmes, Euratom or the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency are now either suspended or finally agreed. Synatom still has a contract with Uranium One, a subsidiary of Rosatom, which expires in 2022 following the last scheduled delivery. Synatom is contractually committed to removing certain quantities of natural uranium. This supply contract, however, provides that uranium cannot be of Russian origin. Uranium One markets uranium from Kazakhstan. The last quantity removed was notified by Synatom in December 2021 for delivery in May 2022. This will be the last delivery. Synatom no longer has any contract with Rosatom and its subsidiaries. The last delivery of Russian nuclear fuel to Synatom took place in 2021 under a contract with TENEX. Since then, Synatom no longer imports nuclear fuels of Russian origin. SCK CEN has never imported its nuclear fuel for its research reactors from Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I said we need to wake up our consciences. We must realize that the nuclear giant Rosatom develops the entire Russian civil nuclear industry but is also the Russian state agency entrusted by Vladimir Putin's regime with developing the atomic bomb and testing the Russian regime's military nuclear arsenal. I agree with you at 200 % when you say that it is absolutely necessary, if not to suspend, to put an end to any collaboration with Rosatom in Europe and more particularly in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u22	Minister, since Wednesday 16 March at 11.15 a.m., the Ukrainian electricity network has been connected to the European network. It is a technical feat which, according to the experts of the sector, was carried out in three weeks instead of a year and a half as planned before the beginning of the Russian aggression in Ukraine. This feat is all the more remarkable because it has taken place in a situation of pressure linked to the foreign invasion on Ukrainian soil with the lot of uncertainties it brings. However, this connection operation has not been unexpected and its success is due to work between members of the European and Ukrainian networks started in 2017. This connection is far from being a sinecure for the besieged people who are now insured or reassured in case of risk of lack of electricity. It will literally allow "to keep the lights lit and the houses warm in these dark times", as long as there are still houses to be heated, to quote Mrs von der Leyen, President of the European Commission (EC). In addition to the technical aspect, there is a clear political aspect: Ukraine is becoming ever closer to the European Union (EU) as this nation cuts more and more moorings with Russia. This entry into the "European Energy Union" will relieve and even support this country in the event of instability of the electrical system. If we can rightly rejoice at this news, we must not be blind either. The new situation raises questions that I am addressing to you today. In the event of attacks in cyber form or in the form of bombings, to what level can the European network help be sought? Is there a risk that an attempted or successful attack on the Ukrainian network will disrupt the European Union's networks? What measures have been taken to address this risk? Ukraine has made a formal application for EU membership. It is not the only state that has done so. What about a possible connection of other countries seeking EU membership? Are they already? If not, are you in favour? Are you determined to plead this with the European institutions? I am thinking in particular of Moldova, a small non-NATO country, on the edge of the conflict and with a pro-Russian separatist region within it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u23	Mrs Marghem, thank you for the question. I would like to point out, however, that on 16 March, the two networks, Ukrainian and Moldovan, were synchronized with the European continental networks. As you yourself point out, this is the final step in the process in preparation since 2017. Investments had been made in both countries with a view to synchronising early 2023. The stability studies conducted in 2021 resulted in a report in February 2022, identifying some remaining investments. As planned, the Ukrainian and Moldovan network operators carried out a winter isolation test from 24 to 26 February 2022, when the Russian Federation invaded Ukraine. The Ukrainian and Moldovan networks did not synchronize with the Russian and Belarusian networks after this trial, following a decision by the Ukrainian Minister of Energy. During this period, it has been proven that Ukrainian and Moldovan networks can continue to operate in a stable manner in isolated mode, even in difficult situations. On 27 February 2022, the Ukrenergo Network Manager asked ENTSO-E for an emergency synchronization with the European Continental Electric System. Moldovan network manager Moldelectrica made the same request on 28 February. On Friday 11 March, ENSO-E decided to perform the synchronization in the following week, which finally took place on 16 March. This was done at the explicit request of the European Energy Council in February, which was convened as a matter of urgency by Mrs Barbara Pompili following the war in Russia. One of the issues discussed was synchronization. All ministers, including ENSO-E, were asked to assess risks and opportunities. Major risks had nevertheless been identified. The obvious technical risks of instability, the risks associated with emergency assistance to the European continental network if it were to be used for an extended period of time and the risks of cybersecurity resulting from the necessary exchange of operational data between Ukrenergo, Modelectrica and the network operators of continental Europe. As a result, ENSO-E network managers have sought and found an adequate response to all these risks. Please note that the initial objective is to synchronize the networks between them and to keep them stable and not to exchange net energy flows. This stability will be monitored 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The Energy DG asked ENTSO-E for further details on the risk involved in the event that Ukraine's electricity generation networks or capacity were to be suddenly and severely damaged. We await the answer in that regard. With regard to cybersecurity, ENSO-E has ensured that an ad hoc solution, with a high level of security for the exchange of operational data with Ukrenergo, has been developed and implemented. As I said, the Moldovan network has been synchronized, so the question does not arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u24	I have nothing to add, I will analyze the answer and I thank the minister for her clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u25	Minister, the context of war in Ukraine has severe effects on the costs of fossil fuels as well as on food prices. As Russia and Ukraine are among the largest exporters of cereals (wheat, maize, barley) as well as rapeseed and sunflower, food commodity prices are reaching new records, even higher than during the 2008 hunger crisis. Industrial bakeries have requested that exports of cereals (wheat) from the European Union be limited. The same applies to sunflower oil, which pushes people to look for other oils. The players in the large distribution sector are also working to limit the dispersion of their stocks. At the same time, cereals and oil are consumed massively, respectively, for the production of bioethanol and biodiesel. This context must be of concern to us about the allocation of food raw materials and thus reinvigorate the debate on first-generation agrofuels, both for obvious reasons of priority of allocation of resources but also for questions of prices for users. Minister, what is the current additional cost (in euro cents) for blending agrofuels, per litre of gasoline and per litre of diesel? What is the share (in euro cents) of first-generation agrofuels in this cost? How many tonnes of cereals and litres of food oil were required to produce the total volume of first-generation agrofuels mixed in Belgium in the last full year, in 2021? What prospects are currently on the table to overcome this impasse?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u26	Madam Minister, within the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the incorporation rate of biofuels would be increased. That intention was also implemented in the Royal Decree of late November. In your policy paper, you then announced that the legal framework for biofuels policy would be adapted and we echo the fact that you intend to phase out first generation biofuels, but there would not be a final agreement in the government on this. It is therefore not clear to me what the government's position is on this matter. In addition, the high prices for the fossil part of petrol and diesel have an impact on the prices at the service stations. According to the current maximum prices, e.g. E5 petrol would be more expensive than E10 petrol. This calls for a number of questions. Firstly, what is the government's position on mixing first generation biofuels with biodiesel and bioethanol? What miles of arrows do you see? Is it true that the government wishes to phase it out in the period between 2025 and 2030? Secondly, how is the bill on biofuels announced by you? When can we expect this in Parliament? Thirdly, what effect does the current obligation to add to the prices at the service stations have? Is it a price increase or price lowering given the high fossil fuel prices? Can you quantify that effect for us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u27	Madam Minister, returning to previous questions, I thank you for your clear answer, as far as possible. I am also pleased that procedures have been set in motion and things are moving faster, while the opposite was feared.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u28	Madame de Laveleye, Mr Wollants, thank you for your questions. There are a lot of numbers that I will also give you in writing. The situation I am going to describe concerns the average prices for March 2022, excluding VAT. For petrol 95 RON E10, the price of the product was 82.74 centimes per litre. It can be broken down into a fossil component of 62.32 centimes per litre and an organic component of 20.42 centimes per litre. The bio-component itself can be subdivided into first-generation biofuel at 10.12 centimes per litre and non-first-generation biofuel at 10.29 centimes per litre. If there was no mixing requirement and it was a purely fossil product, the price of the product would be 72.54 cents per litre. The obligation to mix results in an additional cost of 10.20 centimes per litre. For diesel B7, the price of the product was 96.71 cents per litre. This can be broken down into a fossil component of 77.99 centimes per litre and an organic component of 18.72 centimes per litre. The bio-component itself can be subdivided into first-generation biofuel at 10.17 centimes per litre and non-first-generation biofuel at 8.54 centimes per litre. If there was no obligation to mix and it was a purely fossil product, the price of the product would be 86.85 cents per litre. The obligation to mix results in an additional cost of 9.26 centimes per litre. The Belgian State only has data on the quantities of biofuel used in Belgium which are produced on the basis of crops intended for human or animal consumption. However, by applying a conversion factor for the average product, an estimate of the volumes of raw materials used for biofuel production in Belgium can be obtained. In 2021, there were 557 km3 of biodiesel consumed in Belgium, for which, on average, it takes 670 000 billion litres of vegetable oil and 185 km3 of bioetahnol, which is 180 000 billion litres consumed, for which, on average, it takes 56 000 000 kg of cereals. A draft law transposing the second directive on renewable energy has indeed been on the government table for some time and is now being discussed in the government. The aim of this draft law is to achieve a more technologically neutral implementation of the approach adopted so far in Belgium. In addition, we also want to stimulate and use other renewable vectors, such as renewable hydrogen, recycled carbon fuels, or renewable electricity, in accordance with the provisions of the RED II. As discussions on this matter are still ongoing in the government, I would like to limit my answer to this at the moment in order not to hypothesize the talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It will be very useful to have all the figures available. The obligation to mix represents a real additional cost. More and more workers, workers and families are no longer able to pay for gas. The additional costs associated with the use of first-generation agrofuels are becoming increasingly unsustainable, especially since they are not an acceptable deal in terms of climate, nor in terms of the allocation of agricultural land. At a time when we are approaching a food crisis in several countries of the world and where pressure on our own lands is important, adding food to the fuels of our cars should not be a priority. We therefore encourage the government to find a solution as soon as possible. My colleague Kim Buyst and I are considering making proposals to Parliament to resolve this pressure which is too strong in terms of the food situation, the climate and the price for those who cannot do without their cars and who are still very numerous in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u30	Madam Secretary, I will reread all the figures. At the end of the journey I was not entirely clear whether it was with or without the excise duties in it, because that, of course, changes things a bit. I understand that, just as the talks with Engie are sensitive, the talks in the government are sensitive. However, in the near future we need to land somewhere and get a look at the direction. You argue that it might be harmful if you give too much information about the talks here, but how are we supposed to deal with a government party that puts on the table a bill on the same subject? I think it would be interesting to consider that question. In any case, I am very curious to see how you will deal with this in future; it will certainly not be the last time that we will talk about this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 7 April, following the terrible images that came to us from Boutcha, the Twenty-Seven agreed on a fifth package of sanctions against Russia. For the first time, energy supplies are being taken, in particular by banning Russian coal imports into Europe as early as next summer. It's about time! In our country, imported coal is mainly intended for the steel industry, but also, to a lesser extent, for domestic heating. We buy 10 to 15 per cent of this fuel from Russia and 10 per cent from Ukraine. If there is an embargo, and competition to buy coal increases internationally, it may become difficult to obtain it in the future. Other sanctions are also in the air, particularly on oil and gas imports, which could be a challenge for our country, less for supply issues, than for higher prices. An oil embargo could lead to a further significant increase in the price of gasoline. The same for gas, and therefore for electricity. Minister, some Member States are concerned that the ban on imports of Russian gas and oil would be a violent blow to European industry, particularly German, which would have an impact on the whole of Europe. The Prime Minister seemed to have said that a few weeks ago. What is the government's current position on this prohibition? As far as coal is concerned, how is the government now considering securing its supply? In the event of a total embargo, what measures are being taken or envisaged by the government to remedy possible increases in coal, oil and gas prices? Can you guarantee that there is no risk of supply for gas and oil? Are price caps or joint purchasing mechanisms available at European level, or are they already under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u32	Mr President, Mr De Smet, although the supply of natural gas and oil is currently guaranteed for Belgium, a complete embargo on Russian oil and natural gas would have a major impact on our economic fabric. Thirty to forty percent of our oil comes from Russia in recent years. An embargo on this product would have a negative impact on price, with an undeniable negative impact on our economy. This is proof that this dependence on fossil imports, and especially on a limited number of countries, is undermining not only the bills of the population, but also our economy. For natural gas, too, prices can be expected to rise sharply in the event of an embargo on Russian natural gas. Physical flows of natural gas from Russia to Belgium account for only 4 to 6% of natural gas consumed in Belgium, but the price of gas is subject to fluctuations in the international market. Europe imports about 40% of its natural gas needs from Russia every year. For this reason, Belgium believes that an embargo is primarily to be discussed at European level, and not only at the level of the Member States. Coal is virtually exclusively used in Belgium for steel production and, to a lesser extent, for domestic heating. Companies that rely heavily on Russian coal imports have been studying the possibilities of storage diversification for some time. Prices have already risen sharply in international markets and can be expected to increase further in the event of an embargo. However, physical shortages are not expected immediately. The situation of natural gas is monitored daily by my administration, in close collaboration with Fluxys Belgium. So far, there have been no interruptions in Russia's supply to Europe. There were also no problems with Belgian imports. In the event of an embargo and therefore interruption of Russian supplies, account must be taken of the fact that Belgium is barely directly supplied physically by Russia. The consequences of an embargo on Russian natural gas would therefore be rather indirect, but important in nature, with an increase in the wholesale price. If the countries directly concerned are facing a physical shortage and have already taken all possible measures, they can use the European Solidarity Facility for the supply of their solidarity-protected customers. In so doing, Belgium may be requested to release additional quantities of natural gas, taking into account the available interconnection capacity. Oil supplies are also always guaranteed. Currently, strategic reserves in Belgium are in line with European obligations regarding strategic oil reserves. This means the existence of a stock of more than three million tonnes of crude oil and petroleum products, equivalent to a supply of 90 days. The European Council conclusions of 24 and 25 March contain concrete references to the short-term options proposed by the European Commission, including possible price ceilings. At the DG meeting on 7 April, for the first time, the operationalisation of the European Union platform for the voluntary joint purchase of natural gas and hydrogen was discussed. Member States have already provided technical information on expected gas volumes. The need for this voluntary coordination mechanism was decided by the European Council on 25 March. The platform's objective is to ensure security of supply by focusing on joint purchases of gas, filling of natural gas storage capacity by next winter and optimising the use of existing natural gas and LNG infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u33	Madam Minister, I thank you for your reassuring response in terms of supply and less reassuring about prices, but very realistic, as I fear. This shows us once again how much it is in our European interest to emancipate Russian gas, oil, hydrocarbons and coal as quickly as possible, and in the medium to longer term, if possible, gas and oil in general. At that time, we will have to rely on all the other energies available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u34	Madam Minister, it was recently announced that Engie will have Les Awirs' gas plant built by SEPCO3, a 100% subsidiary of PowerChina, which is wholly owned by the Chinese government and managed by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. It owns about a hundred state-owned companies, including another old acquaintance, State Grid. You will remember that this company wanted to buy into the Flemish network operators. That raised questions about China's influence on critical infrastructure. The security of the State was also heard in the debate. This seems to be a repetition of the State Grid story, with the same risks and in a world where dependence on foreign energy technology has become a serious concern. According to the press, this would be only about the construction of the power plant, but the statutes of the company established in Liège also provide for electricity production as an activity. That could mean there are other plans. In the past, as a result of the CRM, it has been indicated that the construction of gas plants is also an industrial project, resulting in employment. In passing on the Energy Pact a few years ago, the Federal Planning Office had indicated that the construction of a new CEEC plant would provide about 1,900 direct and indirect jobs. There were comments on that dossier, but it was put forward as a non-important element. If the plant is now being built by a Chinese state-owned company, we may have to fear that a significant part of the jobs will be for employees who are taking SEPCO3 elsewhere. In certain other projects of SEPCO3, the company reached 40% of workers from abroad, despite the fact that in the region where the plant is being built there is a not insignificant unemployment rate. The local population should therefore be able to benefit more from this. Moreover, the construction is now done with tax money through the CRM and part of the added value does not remain within our borders, but flows to the Chinese government. If a large number of workers come from abroad, it may be something completely different. I have a number of questions about these two elements, Madam Secretary. What possibilities do you see to intervene in the deal? Has the government received a signal from state security on this matter and has it been asked for advice? Do you think it is a good thing that Beijing has direct control of that gas plant here, which you yourself said was crucial for security of supply? Do you have an idea of the impact on employment and economic added value if it is effectively implemented through SEPCO3? Are there any relevant conditions in the CRM? Is the figure of 1,900 jobs of the Federal Planning Office still current in the current context? Finally, what steps will and can you continue in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u35	Mr Wollants, the FPS Economy is following the foreign direct investment and the potential threat that such investment or transfer of ownership could pose to national security. That is not the case here. Engie is and will remain 100% owner, shareholder and operator of the plant in question. A comparison with the entry of the Chinese company State Grid into distribution system operator Eandis in 2016 does not apply here either. The European Regulation 2019/452 entered into force on 19 October 2019. As you know, a regulation has direct effect at Member State level. This Regulation provides a legal framework for the screening of foreign investment. In this case, SEPCO3 is not an investor but a subcontractor. Many European Member States already have a screening mechanism. Initiatives have now been taken to set up a Belgian screening mechanism. The purpose of this screening is to protect public order and national security. The economic opportunity of a foreign investment is therefore not examined. This remains a task for business. This concerns the screening of a foreign investment with the aim of guaranteeing the security of the State or the country's national security. Based on the information provided by the operator, it appears that SEPCO3 has been selected by Engie as EPC contractor and is responsible for coordinating construction work until commissioning. SEPCO3 is only one of the parties with which Engie will work to build the power plant. Engie also told me in a discussion on this subject that the SEPCO3 is mainly familiar with its nuclear activities. The building technology and software used for the operation of the installation is European. Belgian and European legislation will of course always be respected by all subcontractors in this construction project. SEPCO3 will apply the same quality and safety standards as other subcontractors. On the whole, I fully share your concern. We must be vigilant in terms of infrastructure that is crucial to our security of supply. In this respect, it is essential that the role of the Chinese company should be limited to that of EPC contractor and that in other words there should be no transfer of technology. With regard to employment, as is the case with many investment projects in Belgium, I know the effect if the plant is not built. Our security of supply is not guaranteed and there is no economic added value or additional employment. Outsourcing and subcontracting by foreign construction companies are not immediately unusual practices for large construction projects, especially in a European context with free movement of persons and goods. Projects under the CRM are not different in this respect from other public or private tenders. The Minister for Work, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, will be able to answer this question more precisely, if necessary, about the consequences of outsourcing or subcontracting. The legal framework of the CRM does not contain criteria on jobs that should be filled by the local population. However, it is stipulated that the CRM should aim at the lowest possible cost. The Federal Planning Office has not revised the estimate of 1,900 direct and indirect jobs created by the construction of a new CEEC plant since its publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u36	Thank you, Madam Secretary. To be honest, I remain very concerned about the way this is going with you. It may be that Engie remains the owner, but that also applies to other technologies in this country where questions are asked. For example, about the Wi-Fi routers and servers, which also come from a Chinese company and which will be entirely owned by the federal government, the question is what actions can be carried out afterwards. I have those concerns in this file, too. I'd like to believe that not building those power stations is much worse. On the other hand, these 1,900 jobs were once put forward as one of the major advantages of the CRM. If you say that the local anchoring of this employment is not so important, then I have a lot of questions about how you see it. I see this as a dossier in which a lot of money will go through the taxpayer to subsidise that central money that will be used for employment that does not even end up with us. The plant will be operated by the locals. However, you also know that the operation of a CEEC plant requires only 70 people, not the 1,900 people needed to build it. That is a big difference for me and I do not think this is the right way to proceed. However, I understand that you are giving this answer because there is nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u37	Madam Secretary, in the United Kingdom, a number of studies warn of the effects of hydrogen leaking into the atmosphere. A first study concerns, among other things, the extension of the life of methane in the atmosphere, by breaking down a certain substance, hydroxyl, in that photochemical process. The second study focuses on the way hydrogen is released. For example, transport of hydrogen in liquid form would be an important source of emissions. This would reduce the efforts made to reduce greenhouse gases by the use of hydrogen, precisely, although the study does not make any statements on the transport of hydrogen by conversion into ammonia or by liquid organic hydrogen carriers. I also have the impression that only very short-term routes have been investigated and no routes where hydrogen has to be transported over a very long distance. Nevertheless, we must not be blind to that aspect. What conclusions do you draw from the two studies? Which points of interest do you think should be included in the drawing of our energy system? It seems that we should pay particular attention to the transport of hydrogen. What initiatives will you take to clarify this, possibly in cooperation with European colleagues? Do these findings have an impact on the choice to focus on the transport of hydrogen over long distances from Chile, Oman or Namibia? Or do the findings lead us to focus more on local or even continental production? Are the contracts and the MOUs with foreign players alongside low-carbon generation as a criterion - we are talking about green, pink or different-colored hydrogen............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u38	Mr President, it is indeed important to adopt a full life-cycle approach when defining energy policy. For natural gas, this is now being taken up at European level and is receiving more attention worldwide. For hydrogen, the studies provide new insights, which we absolutely must take into account. Having said that, we expect that the increase in the use of hydrogen will also be accompanied by further electrification, which will reduce the use of methane and thus also the emissions of methane. Although the impact of hydrogen appears to be greater than previously assumed, the interaction between methane and hydrogen is particularly problematic, making the overall impact of evolution to hydrogen still very positive compared to global warming and air quality. The risks of hydrogen leakage should be examined and all technically and economically feasible measures taken to avoid them should be taken. This will initially be dealt with in the context of the certification of renewable hydrogen. The dedicated acts of the Renewable Energy Directive are expected to take into account greenhouse gas emissions over the entire life cycle of the molecule, including its transport. Any hydrogen leaks will therefore be included in the certification. Additional measures may be provided for, such as obligations or incentives for hydrogen system operators. The balance between imports over long distances and local generation is, of course, made. We take into account all sustainability criteria, as well as the price and availability of renewable energy. It is more advantageous to electrify where possible and to consume locally produced renewable electricity directly in the form of electricity. Only renewable surpluses can be converted to hydrogen. The roll-out of renewable energy production and regional cooperation play a crucial role in this. Finally, I would like to stress that the certification of molecules is crucial to build a positive business case for the import of renewable hydrogen. Greenhouse gas emissions are part of that story. That is why this is also being discussed with our partners in the context of the MOUs signed last year. Chile is often mentioned in a breath, but with Chile no MOU government to government was drawn. With Namibia, Oman and Norway we have a MOU. That also applies to hydrogen. Chile has closed an MOU with the Port of Antwerp, not with the government. We are, of course, pleased with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u39	Madam Minister, I think it is particularly important that we get a closer look at this. These are the first studies of this kind. There are also a number of gaps in the investigation, in this case concerning long-distance transport and transport by other carriers. I believe that we should also take into account that methane emissions are not only caused by natural gas, but that there is also a strong link with other sectors, such as agriculture. So the hydrogen leaks may be a problem. We certainly need to look at what is possible in terms of local production. It is not just about converting renewable surpluses but also about using nuclear technology to generate low carbon hydrogen. That could also be discussed. We certainly need to study all aspects of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, the lack of decisiveness to get appointments to the CREG seems to be taking firm forms. I thought we had seen just about everything when you replied to a question from me that you sent a letter to the previous Energy Minister to get the file, or when you asked Parliament to send a signal to Selor to send out the candidacy. We are already at the stage where the chairman of our Energy Committee has sent a letter to your fellow Minister De Sutter asking Minister De Sutter to ask Selor to do what you ask, namely to publish the candidacy. On 16 March you replied that the vacancies were fully translated. Unless I've looked over it, I haven't been able to find those vacancies at Selor's so far. That is why I am asking for a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u41	I too listen with attention to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u42	Mr Wollants, the situation is that everything is being prepared to publish the vacancies as soon as possible. The order has been given. I expect the publication by the first half of May. It is therefore logical that you have not yet been able to find this on Selor's website. This will change in the short term. Together with you, I hope that the dossier can move forward quickly afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u43	Madam Minister, I believe that many people share that hope, because it has gone on for far too long. The concerns of one of the current members of the Executive Board also mean that we have to get to work on this. In the second half of May I will come back to it if there is still a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u44	Madam Minister, in the context of the energy deal, you have announced that work is being done to remove the thresholds. In the past, this was not an easy matter. In the interventions we have received in the past, for example from Mr Decuyper van skeyes, it is partly also about the financing of the necessary adjustments, while the main focus is on consultation, as I understand from the texts of the energy deal. What steps have you taken in the meantime? What can we expect in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u45	Mr Wollants, as you yourself say, this is an obstacle to the development of renewable energy in our country. That barrier has been known for a long time. As far as I am concerned, the fact that attempts have already been made to remove these thresholds is not a valid argument not to begin this exercise. The world has changed since the invasion of Ukraine. Belgium and the European Union are faced with the extreme dependence on imports of fossil fuels and the associated geopolitical vulnerability. The most sustainable and structural way to reduce this dependence is by accelerating the energy transition and focusing on the development of renewable energy. The government is taking the necessary initiatives in this respect, as decided on 18 March last. My collaborators are in contact with ministers Dedonder and Gilkinet's staff in order to eliminate maximum thresholds related to applied distances to radars, altitude limitation and surface area and the implantation of exclusion zones. In addition, a budget was allocated to finance adjustments to radar systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u46	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have the impression that you say that this is mainly drawn by Ministers Dedonder and Gilkinet. I will therefore address my questions to them. I have already asked Mr Gilkinet questions in the past about, for example, marking regulations and such things, something that is much less stringent than we have in the Netherlands, but at that time he did not seem to take immediate steps. I wonder if you can encourage him enough to come up with results. I would like to know whether you are effectively achieving the objective you have set, namely one and a half gigawatts. As you know, I think that is very ambitious, but I am looking forward to seeing what that will become in practice. I will, of course, return to you with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u47	Minister, you're going to say that I'm still coming back with this issue of the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT). It is true that I have already asked you many times, but there are several factors that force me to put a new question. First, there is the report of the IPCC Third Working Group on Climate Change Mitigation released on April 4. Indeed, this is the first time that the IPCC, with this panel of international reference scientists on climate change, has addressed the "incompatibility" of the TCE mechanism with the implementation of States' commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement. I think this is a new element which is important, but I believe that there is also the war in Ukraine, which represents a new challenge, and in particular the measures to protect energy independence, which we could adopt as a European country. I am thinking in particular of the embargo under discussion on oil, gas, coal and Russian uranium. Are these new measures taken into account in the European position in the context of the TEC modernisation negotiations? It seems to me that we are in the twelfth - and provisionally the penultimate - round of negotiations. Secondly, as regards the status of Russia under the TEC, it seems to me that they have signed the Treaty but have not ratified it. In international law, however, Russia remains a signatory. I think that is particularly disturbing given the international context. As is already known, in its opinion delivered on 2 September 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union considered that a European investor could not attack a state on its climate policy on the basis of this TEC. Here too, I wanted to see if Belgium would finally ask for an opinion. What is Belgium's position vis-à-vis the Court of Justice of the European Union? Finally, have we taken steps to envisage a unilateral or multilateral exit from this climate poison treaty, like Italy - another EU Member State?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u48	Mr Cogolati, the Ukrainian crisis and its effects on the European security of supply situation were mentioned by some parties in the negotiations by asking the European Union this question as well. The response of the European Commission, which, as you know, speaks on behalf of the Member States of the European Union during the negotiations, was very clear, in particular on the fact that it does not intend to adapt its mandate. It follows the European Council's line in this area, in particular the importance of focusing on ensuring security of supply by focusing more than ever on greater diversification of roads and sources, combined with the Green Deal's objectives as priorities that go hand in hand. For information, I can still inform you that the newly installed management committee of the TCE, which met for the first time on 7 April and which is planning a second meeting at the end of April, is also looking at the status of Russia within the TCE, in response to a specific request from Ukraine. An exceptional conference will finally take a decision on this. The date of this exceptional meeting has not yet been confirmed. Russia has never ratified the TCE. It provisionally applied the clauses from December 1991 to October 2009 and then terminated the application. Moreover, the Treaty has evolved twice since then. Russia has not been a party to any of these developments. On the basis of these elements, it is difficult to consider that Russian energy companies are linked by the TCE and even less by its modernisation. For the latter, I would like to refer you to my previous replies, as Belgium's position on this subject has still not changed. The same applies to the position of the European Union. We, the European Union and Belgium, continue the negotiations constructively and look forward to a political agreement in principle, which is the subject of the ad hoc conference to be held at the end of June. According to the results, consultations will take place at European Union level and thus at Belgian level. This is therefore not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u49	Madam Minister, I think that both from the point of view of the climate emergency - I recalled the IPCC report of 4 April - but also, and perhaps this is new, from the point of view of the security of peace on the continent, the public authorities must remain free to take all the measures they deem legitimate to protect themselves, to protect the climate, to save the planet, to protect peace and internal security, without fearing that they will find themselves in a court of arbitration to have to pay incredible sums, millions of euros, as they have done in the past, to repay investors in fossil fuels, if not fissile. I believe that the option of an exit from this Treaty, as has been done in Italy, must be maintained and perhaps even put back on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u50	Mr. Ben Achour is the first speaker. If three questions are attached, other members may either ask a question or reply. I'm opening up that possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u51	Members who are not registered can intervene? In this case, this must be qualified as a topical debate from the outset, and this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u52	It depends on the decision of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u53	I think we should stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u54	The rules are always dependent on a decision of the commission. In this case, if there is no agreement, there will be no change.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u55	Madam Minister, in recent months, the CREG has revealed that energy market players in Belgium have received very large profits in 2021: a little less than 40 million on average for gas power plants and more than 460 million for nuclear power plants. The profits of gas power plants are also expected to be high in 2022, while operators of Belgian nuclear power plants could generate up to 3.3 billion profit margins over the period 2021-2024. On March 25, 2022, you indicated to our assembly that you had commissioned a study on the legal possibilities of taking over profits from the energy sector, in order to finance measures to support households affected by the increase in the cost of gas and electricity bills. Minister, my five questions are as follows. First, it happened to us that the study of CREG was to be transmitted to you during the week of 28 March. Has that been the case? If so, could we have you come back to that? Secondly, could you please explain to us the nature of the measures that can be put in place so as to take away the over-profits made by energy stakeholders? Do these measures concern only the operators of gas and nuclear power plants? Have there been any exceptional benefits from other actors? Thirdly, could you inform us about household support initiatives that will be supported by these tax measures? Are these the current measures or their extension? Are new measures being considered? Fourthly, can a change in the modalities of nuclear taxation and the allocation contribution mentioned in the contract between the State and the operator of nuclear power plants be envisaged? Have there been any discussions with the operator on this issue? Finally, have any progress been made at European level with regard to the levying of these over-profits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u56	Madam Secretary, today it was said in the paper that the energy bills have broken all the records again. They've never been this high. Prices continue to rise and thus the huge excess profits of the energy multinationals. Those are just communicating vessels. Consumers really don't have the luxury of waiting any longer and you really don't have the luxury of waiting. We no longer have time to lose and ask from the beginning, already months ago, to exploit the excess profits and to significantly reduce the energy bill of the people. In the meantime, your government's cautious measures have already been offset by the price increases. Four months ago, you promised that no one should enrich themselves in the crisis, and you repeated it in the media today. Also today you announced that you would seek advice on this for the third time, this time from the National Bank. First there was the CREG report in January, which confirmed that billions of overprofits are being made and that they are mainly among producers. The surprise at that time was that it was not just about nuclear power stations but also about the gas plants where speculation is being made and the gas purchased at low price is being resold instead of producing electricity. Then you asked the CREG for an additional opinion and a legal analysis with a concrete proposal on how to remove the excess profits in the sector. That report was supposed to be delivered to you at the end of last month. Now you want to call in a new agency, the National Bank. Doesn't your administration or your cabinet count competent staff? I should hope so. We don't have time to waste and we're always running behind the facts, with opinions and reports that are kept secret. It took us a long time to get the first report from the CREG and then without any figures. We didn't get those numbers until last month. Now there is a new opinion from the CREG, which, however, is still not publicly available. Madam Minister, we are a little tired of taking your word for it and we demand that these reports, including the legal advice obtained outside, be made public, preferably today, but certainly this week. When will you finally make the latest CREG study public? When will you instruct the CREG to do so? What are the results of that report, which you have already seen? How much are the excess profits from the gas plant? What is the CREG's proposal on the skimming of surplus profits? What exactly do you expect from the National Bank? What is her competence in the matter? What are you waiting for to take your own initiatives? The clock is ticking, people are starving and something really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u57	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, this is not the first time we have discussed this extremely important issue. As you have pointed out many times, no one can take advantage of the crisis with the surge in energy prices to get rich, starting with the government. This has already been demonstrated by the fact that several billion euros are being donated to Belgian households through, for example, the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas. It is clear that energy producers, including ENGIE Electrabel, cannot get rich on the back of Belgian citizens and businesses, which are seeing their competitiveness decline. However, one can observe a rather shocking difference in tax treatment between Doel 3 and 4, Tihange 2 and 3 and the three old reactors that are subject to a completely different tax. For Doel 1 and 2 reactors, there is a charge of EUR 20 million paid by ENGIE. I dare say that this amount is absolutely ridiculous compared to the overprofits that are recorded through surplus revenues. Minister, can you tell me what is being considered today? Be aware that I wholeheartedly support you in your search for a solution, including through the use of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed received two letters from CREG providing answers to my supplementary questions. These related not only to producers' potential over-profits, but also to specific concerns regarding the reduction in the supply of fixed contracts and the issue of bankruptcy among suppliers. The responses of CREG provide an update of the figures on all these elements and suggestions on how these issues could be addressed. These issues are currently under discussion within the government. I will ask CREG to make its responses public. Mr Warmoes, I can't give orders to the CREG, you can. There is always a close look here, so I thought I'd emphasize that for a moment. I would also like to add that we have had a discussion on this subject and that the figures in the first report I received from the CREG were blacked out. Then I asked the CREG what was confidential about these figures and then I received from the CREG a version of the report in which the figures were whitened and made available to the public. On the basis of the most recent expected market prices, CREG has provided an update of the profits of the nuclear power plants and of the revenue that the Government can expect from the allocation contribution on these profits. These figures are slightly higher than those estimated by the CREG study of 1 February. This study with all the figures is available on the CREG website. Here they are. By 2022, the allocation contribution after degression would already bring in 530 million euros and, in the optimistic case, 156 million euros more. For 2023, CREG provides EUR 40 million more than the EUR 213 million initially estimated after degression. For 2024, CREG provides €33 million more than the €180 million initially estimated after degression. The CREG also obtained a legal opinion on the legal steps to be taken to increase the allocation contribution if necessary. This suggests that very wide-ranging legal measures should be taken without avoiding legal compensation or countermeasures or the reopening of old legal procedures. We are currently examining with government partners whether the expected benefits outweigh the risks and disadvantages of such measures because we will need very strong social arguments to intervene on the allocation contribution. Mr Warmoes, yes, my cabinet has competent staff, and yes, my administration has even more competent officials. I have already told you here last time that all these competent people are faced with contracts concluded by the previous government with the necessary provisions. Those contracts now require these people to take everything out of the closet in order to be able to answer how we deal with it. It has made it very difficult, even almost impossible to intervene. We repeatedly ask these questions to the regulator and now to the National Bank, because we do not give up dealing with that reality, Mr Warmous. That's how you know me. I'm not gonna give up, but I'm gonna be happy to show up on the ice. That's how I work in this file as in other files. Which brings me to another pain-solving point. The CREG has not indicated in its replies whether the excess profits are problematic for our economy. Nor does the CREG propose an increased contribution. It merely points out that for the entire period from 2016 to 2025, in which the repartition fee is collected, 40% will be contributed to the profits booked. Nor has the CREG questioned the operators of the gas plants in order to obtain the actual profit figures. At my request to examine for all technologies whether there are profits and so-called overprofits, the CREG has put a number on them through a theoretical approach and it insists that that number is sufficiently accurate to approach reality. However, this is strongly contested by FEBEG. I am not yet convinced by the CREG's response. Only by pointing out that the plants of Drogenbos and Seraing are technically equal and almost the same age, but according to the CREG model I am not yet convinced that they are making very different profits. That is why I shared the CREG study and its answers to the additional questions with the National Bank yesterday and asked a question for advice. Before being able to judge as a minister whether far-reaching policy measures should be taken, I must have objective criteria which, if necessary, can be maintained in court. Are the more favourable profit situations of a number of market players effective overprofits or are they windfall profits? We must take into account the way in which the market is regulated and functioning. Engie already pays a contribution of 38% on his nuclear profits through the repartition fee. Is this combination of profit and valuation on electricity production in the current energy crisis still problematic for the Belgian economy? If this combination is problematic, how much more should we tax electricity production, so that excessive profits are no longer made at the expense of Belgian consumers and industry? I refer all these questions to the National Bank of Belgium and on the basis of its feedback the government will then assess the possible measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u59	(...) to get a look at the developments concerning the file...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I see the ambition and concern to work within a legal framework that is as safe as possible. Now, our compass must still be made up of the figures that the CREG gives us. We need to put them in perspective of what the operator is paying today. There is an imbalance in the balance; it needs to be rebalanced. It is essential, I think, if we are to finance future measures that will have to be taken in a context, I would point out, of high prices over a long period of time. We received information here a few weeks ago. They evoked the prospect of 2027 before perhaps finding prices a little more reasonable. This means that we will have to structurally finance measures to support households, for example, the extension of the social tariff to protect a greater proportion of the population, this time also including the middle classes. To do this, you'll have to put the ambition cursor even higher. We're gonna have to go further. I recall that the Di Rupo government had negotiated a 70% tax for Tihange 1. The Michel government has set the ambition at 38% for the other power stations, not to mention Doel 1 and Doel 2, which are linked to flat-rate charges. There is work to restore balance. Once again, the challenge is to finance measures to support households, businesses and those affected by these price increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u61	Mr President, I would also like to ask you to write a letter on behalf of the committee to the CREG to make the full reports and the external legal advice available to this committee, which, moreover, approves its budget every year. Madam Minister, last week we proposed and, following some pressure, obtained a hearing with the CREG on this matter. Mr President, I would like to urge you to do so again, because that hearing is not mentioned on the calendar for the committee we received yesterday. However, you promised to organise that hearing in May. So I would not wait for this, because not only should we have those reports, we should also be able to question the CREG. Madam Minister, you stated that about 40% of the profits made by the nuclear power plants will be charged with the repartition contribution. First of all, of course, it is not all nuclear power stations. However, if it is about overprofits and if no one is allowed to enrich themselves with them, then we should actually claim 100 percent of the excess profits and not just 40 percent. In addition to these excess profits, there are still ordinary profits. You spoke of the previous government's contracts. I assume that this is about the contracts which are linked to certain nuclear power stations. However, this is also about the gas plants and the buyers of wind energy from the offshore wind farms in the North Sea. So it's about a lot more than just those nuclear power plants. You said there was a need for strong social arguments. Perhaps wanted to say legal arguments, but in any case very strong social arguments. I hope you have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u62	Legal arguments!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u63	I understood "social." But in any case, the arguments are there. It's the crisis for people right now. It's been going on for a while and getting worse. I simply note that, in the event of a banking crisis or another crisis that puts companies at risk, the government is very quick to take the necessary measures and even to break certain European rules, but it is going very slowly here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u64	Madam Minister, I would like to join Mr Ben Achour. To put it even more frankly, I think you have a dirty job of correcting the mistakes of the previous government: the Michel government. It must be said frankly: 20 million euros for Doel I, Doel II and Tihange I is nothing! It's nothing at all given the crisis and the price boom! It is a real path of legal obstacles that you must bypass. I have only one thing to say: we fully encourage you in the search for a solution that is legally correct and able to restore this injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u65	People here asked about the agenda. In addition to the discussion about profit, excess profits and windfall profits, there is, of course, the discussion about how prices are formed prior to this. We need to know that before we skim, return or transfer the account to the next generation. I just want to remind you that we have a meeting on 10 May. I hope that we will then have a report on ACER's work. We also said last time that we want to include the issue of overprofits. I will look with the secretariat to see if we can get a further explanation of the work of the CREG. I propose that we do one thing after another, but the promise is that this will be on the agenda in May. Madam Secretary, when do you expect the report from the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u66	We just asked that question. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u67	There's no timing set?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u68	Mr President, that is before the end of May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u69	We'll look at the timing of this later. There is no point in asking questions now if we know that the reports will come out next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u70	Mr President, it is indeed important that these matters come here as soon as they are available. The questions can already be asked. That does not mean that we should already invite the CREG. The CREG may even be able to update what the nuclear taxes have brought about in the past. We have received an opinion from the CREG, which states that the proceeds of the 70%, which Mr Ben Accour quoted for Tihange 1, lead to the unlikely sum of EUR 9,91 million over five years. They once wrote an opinion on this. I think it is good that they update that information for the years 2020 and 2021, to keep the debate clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u71	One of my objectives here is to achieve transparency. This sometimes goes beyond question and answer and respond to actuality. I will come up with a proposal and try to synthesise the various concerns here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u72	Mr President, will you then write to the CREG to try to obtain these reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u73	I will come up with a concrete proposal by next week to do this properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u74	"Mr President, Madam Minister, in the rural areas of our country, a number of our poorest citizens are forced to use gas cans to heat their homes. I refer in particular to persons who cannot connect a boiler to the natural gas system, or install a boiler with oil; persons who reside, for example, in cottages or caravans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u75	If the answers to these questions were negative, what solutions could be considered to support low-income households forced to use rural gas cans?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u76	Mr. Delizée, your first question falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance, but I can confirm that only customers who have a residential gas supply contract benefit from the 6% rate. Your second question concerns jurisdiction shared with the Minister of Economy. He's the one who's piloting the energy check file. I can also confirm that the cheques are not applicable to consumers of gas cylinders. Finally, citizens who meet the conditions can make use of the Social Fund heating through the CPAS.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me that this issue is more relevant to rural areas where people do not have access to natural gas and sometimes heat up with gas cylinders. Of course, I can speak to the Minister of Finance. I hear your answer which would be positive to the fact that the 6% reduction in VAT would concern gas cylinders. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u78	Only customers with a residential gas supply contract benefit from the 6% rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u79	Minister, I apologize for my misunderstanding. This is unfortunate for the users of gas cylinders. However, it is the most impoverished and difficult audience. After hearing about this 6% reduction in VAT, he obviously hoped to be able to benefit from this measure. That's too bad. I will not fail to question the Minister of Economy on the EUR 100 cheque. I can only invite the government to try to help those people who may be in a particular situation and for whom the 6% reduction would have been very helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u80	Madam Secretary, Ventilus und kein Ende. Apparently, Elia recently sent a presentation to your cabinet and others to explain their insights about the Ventilus project. In it, Elijah continues to defend the airline for the most part of the intended route and warns against the consequences and implications of a choice for the underground route, a choice made by the Flemish Government, which, of course, must also approve the necessary spatial implementation plan. The cost would almost quadruple with an underground route and even additional spare capacity of the size of one large gas plant would be needed to ensure the stability of the network. At the same time, discussions remain on transport capacity. So far, Elijah has stated and you have joined them in saying that the planned capacity expansion of Princess Elisabeth would not have an impact on Ventilus in terms of capacity, but in West Flanders there are already concerns about the future additional impact of the Triton project as well as about the potential DC connection with Norway and possibly even an additional third link with the United Kingdom. In short, it is feared that, in addition to Ventilus, additional grid reinforcements will be needed in the future. Can you explain to Parliament what the main lines of Elijah's presentation are? How do you respond to the growing concern in West Flanders about the possible need for additional grid reinforcements and connections? What would be the impact on transmission network tariffs and on the budget in the light of the federal reform of the electricity bill and the freezing of federal additional costs for the reference year 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u81	Madam Minister, I would like to add my voice to the questions because the Ventilus project has a number of important objectives. The first is that Elia wants to unlock the offshore wind energy for the interior, make the high voltage network more robust and strengthen the network in West Flanders. The project has been opposed in West Flanders and the Flemish government must also create the spatial conditions on the basis of a spatial implementation plan. Can you tell us what the situation is today? Is there consultation with Elia, action groups or local authorities? How is the discussion with the Flemish government on this project going? What about a possible underground alternative to this project? What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u82	Colleagues, the previous government had already decided to triple the capacity of wind at sea and the current government has initially decided to triple them, i.e. the 3.5 we have already discussed. We now want to look for additional capacity in the North Sea. That is also why we have created an energy island in the context of the Relance Plan, just in order to be able to efficiently connect the increase in capacity at sea and to put less pressure on the strengthening of the land-based high-voltage grid, so as to be able to do the same more. This is an acceleration and an increase in the capacity of wind at sea, something we need, both for our security of supply and for the affordability of invoices and more than ever for our energy independence. This capacity increase, which has already been decided, will enable any family to make use of wind at sea by 2020. In the meantime, I can also tell you that, as part of the preparation of the Princess Elisabeth Zone, I have been visited by quite a lot of companies active in the heavy industry who would like to have access to wind at sea and who are planning to participate in the tender we are organising for that purpose. Both our citizens and our industry are counting on the availability of wind at sea and, of course, if there is uncertainty about the connection, this will be called into question. That is what your questions are about Ventilus and related to them also about the Boucle du Hainaut, i.e. the reinforcements on land that are necessary for a number of objectives, as Mrs Buyst pointed out. The fact remains that the electrical backbone we have today is not strong enough and that we therefore need both projects, Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut, to create sufficient reception capacity without having to increase the capacity of Ventilus or Boucle du Hainaut. In principle, therefore, we do not need additional high-voltage lines in addition to Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. After the realization of these projects there are connections in direct current to a strong net imaginable. This includes connections in DC so underground DC connections. The objectives of the project are set out in Elia's federal development plan and have been approved by the federal government after advice has been given, in the case of Ventilus by the Flemish government. The objectives have already been mentioned here by Mrs Buyst, namely the extension of the high-voltage grid, essential to improve its redundancy, the opening up of wind in the North Sea, namely the new projects in the Princess Elisabeth zone and the connection to the future energy island in the North Sea. The third objective is the essential strengthening of the high-voltage network in West Flanders, necessary for the electrification of the province but also for the local economy, the local businesses. In order to meet these objectives, several studies show that a choice for a high voltage line is the best option. The preliminary results of the intentant study, which were presented at the end of October 2021, also come to that conclusion. Those plans for electricity infrastructure take full account of the pressure and load that high-voltage air lines can bring to the residents. Projects will not be planned if full and viable alternatives exist within the same time frame, which should be speeded up sooner than possible, taking into account, for example, decisions of the federal government. I've also received the residents several times. We listen to their concerns. That happens especially at the level of my team. For example, on my question, an advisory council evaluated the remuneration policy for property owners, drawn up by Elia. On the basis of scientific research, the Advisory Council proposed a policy recommendation. That recommendation resulted in a draft note, which is currently being worked out by Elijah in its remuneration policy. In addition, Elia also provides for a Community fund for investments in the relevant municipalities to support the green transition and energy transition and to improve the living environment. I will, of course, continue to ensure that Elia makes active contact with the residents and the municipalities at the time of looking at a preferred route, in order to engage proactively in discussions with additional projects and measures. Of course, the Flemish government has jurisdiction. A while ago, however, I spoke with my Flemish colleague, Mrs Demir, about our mutual policy on renewable energy and about the expansion of wind energy production at sea and what goes with it so that renewable energy can be unlocked and made available to our citizens and businesses. We will deliver Elijah's presentation to the committee. It's about 20 kilometers of air line, including 12 kilometers of potential underground. It is estimated that 60 houses will be added to the area of 0.4 microtesla compared to today and the impact will be felt. The impact shall be minimised, inter alia by the choice of a route with as few spans as possible and the application of technical measures limiting electromagnetic fields. Residents who are confronted with a span will be given the opportunity to sell their house to Elijah. I want to share with you that Kris Peeters told me a while ago that the houses they buy sell after that. That is perhaps an obvious fact, which has not yet been explicated to me. For me, this means that there is, of course, a justified concern among residents living in a place where there is potential for an airline, but that it does not prevent others from living there. This is without prejudice to the concerns that residents have today, it is not a judgment on the legitimate concerns of people. Let me cite the example to say that perhaps the situation is grey rather than black and white. There are alternatives circulating today based on a demand from residents to work completely underground. That question seems justified at first sight. We need to see if that's possible. However, that is not a solution in this case, as this leads to even more different lines without reinforcement, with all the consequences for the reliability of our high-voltage network. This approach would also lead to additional delays and additional costs. When we take Boucle du Hainaut into account, we are talking about EUR 4 to 5 billion in additional costs on the transmission tariffs, that is directly on the invoice. There will be no reinforcement of the network in West Flanders. There can also be less additional wind energy connected to land in that region, while of course we need all these megawatts. According to Elijah, if the route were restarted underground, the investment costs would quadruple. Of course, we hope for a decision which properly balances all possible interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u83	Madam Minister, it is, of course, a very difficult and delicate dossier. I'll get to the point with your answer. I will also deliver it to our people in the Flemish Parliament. The bottomline is, of course, that your Flemish colleague might make it very difficult for you in this dossier, even though I do not expect it to be. Mr President, at the beginning of March I asked the Minister about the impact on timing for, among other things, offshore development. You said at the time that you were very interested in inviting network manager Elia here. We have not heard them here since December 2019 with the discussion of network investments. It would be helpful to schedule a hearing with Elijah before the summer. I thought you were fond of that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u84	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. This shows how important the file is. Not only wind energy production at sea is therefore important, but also making the network more robust in West Flanders, among others. I therefore welcome your statement that, as you have done in the past, you want to continue to engage actively and proactively in dialogue with the local residents in order to find ways to respond to their concerns. It is very important to continue to communicate transparently on this issue. I really hope that Flanders realizes how important the dossier is; it is up to Flanders to make a decision in full awareness of certain consequences for the plan, the inhabitants, to which one should definitely listen, the timing and the production park. I therefore hope that the opportunities offered by the plan will be looked at in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the International Energy Agency has published a new, comprehensive report in which it is reasonably critical of Belgian energy policy. Although it notes that there have been some successes in the necessary energy transition, it continues to criticise the excessive dependence on fossil fuels. According to the Agency, demand for these fuels will increase in the coming years. It is a peer review, each with an assessment and numerous recommendations. The peer review covers developments over the past few months. Madam Secretary, how do you take these recommendations into account in your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u86	Mr. President, Minister, last week, the International Energy Agency released its five-year analysis of our country's energy policy. While the Agency recognises Belgium's focus on energy transition and a low-carbon economy, it stresses that "more aggressive policies are needed to reduce Belgium's dependence on fossil fuels and accelerate emission reductions". Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read this report. Can we get your feedback on this? What lessons do you think they can learn from it? What is your position on the recommendations made? A large number of recommendations relate to both federal and regional jurisdictions. Have any contacts been made or will they be made with the representatives of the federated entities on this matter? In particular, the Agency calls for the early conclusion of an agreement on the federal/regional allocation of effort on "reduction of greenhouse gas, renewable energy and energy efficiency emissions, while taking into account the lessons learned from the 2020 agreement and the need for flexibility". Minister, can you inform us of the progress of the discussions on this subject? Has a timetable been established? When can we expect an agreement to be reached?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, the International Energy Agency has submitted its report to Belgium. One of the points raised in this report is the Agency's concern about Belgium's ability to achieve its carbon-neutral objectives, while the decision to shut down five out of seven reactors was taken. In addition, the Agency calls for a reduction in fossil-fuel dependence, reaching 71% in 2020. In her view, action should therefore be taken to reduce this significant dependence on fossil fuels and to accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gases, especially as the release of nuclear energy will increase the carbon intensity of electricity production. The International Energy Agency once again points to a lack of national coherence between the various responsibilities of the multiple governments present in our country and calls for an agreement between the federal and federated entities to clarify the targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also in terms of renewables and energy efficiency. Finally, the release of nuclear power is highlighted because it will make us dependent on natural gas for electricity production, ranging from 24.4% in 2020 to 38.8% in 2030. There are also concerns about the security of supply guarantee. Minister, have you read this report? What is your point of view on this one? What concrete measures do you envisage in order to reduce Belgian dependence on fossil fuels as highlighted in this report? How can we respond to the lack of coherence between the Belgian State and the federated entities with regard to emission reduction objectives and renewable energy? Will intra-Belgian consultation be planned? If so, when? Can a national plan be put in place quickly? What are the blocking elements? What is your response to the increase in our dependence on natural gas generated by the release of nuclear energy? On what basis does the Agency have doubts about the guarantee of security of supply? Do you have any guarantees that there will be no risks to this security of supply? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u88	Madam Minister, as has already been said, I am giving a peer review with a number of recommendations. Let me sum up some of them. The International Energy Agency recommends updating the National Energy and Climate Plan, agreeing on climate and energy targets at national level for the period from 2030 to 2050, including a national carbon neutrality target by 2050. Furthermore, the Agency recommends that measures be taken to combat energy poverty, promote the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency and allow a fair transition that protects vulnerable households and makes them part of the energy transition. It also recommends using the tax reform to create appropriate price signals to support the decarbonisation of the overall economy and electrification. The Agency also recommends the provision of infrastructure planning, approval and licensing processes enabling the timely expansion of transmission and distribution systems necessary for the rapid and sustainable development of renewable energy sources, in particular for the second offshore wind zone. Can you indicate how you will take these recommendations into account in your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the International Energy Agency is screening our country's energy policy every five years. This is therefore a question of an evaluation covering the period from 2016 to now, since the previous evaluation was published in 2016. This is a far-reaching process in which our country's policy is monitored and examined in detail over a period of about one year. In Belgium, all the relevant ministers, their staff and their administrations participated in this exercise, which was coordinated by the Energy DG of the SPF Economy within the framework of the Energy Working Group between the Federal State and the Regions (ENOVER/CONCERE). The report consists of ten chapters spread over 157 pages. To go into the details of all the recommendations would lead us too far. I would therefore refer you to the report. The main recommendations that were explained at the press conference on Wednesday, 20 April are as follows. Update the National Energy and Climate Plan with new objectives and measures supporting the European Union target of 55% emission reduction and providing security to stakeholders to make the necessary investments to decarbonise the economy. Achieve agreement on long-term climate and energy targets at national level for the period 2030-2050, including a national carbon neutrality target by 2050. Ensure that measures are taken to combat energy poverty and promote the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Enable a fair transition that protects vulnerable households and makes them part of the energy transition. Use the tax reform to create appropriate price signals, to support the decarbonisation of the entire economy and electrification. Ensure that infrastructure planning, approval and authorisation processes allow the timely expansion of transmission and distribution systems necessary for the rapid and sustainable development of renewable energy sources, in particular for the second area of wind at sea, as addressed in the previous question. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking me how I take all this into my policy. As regards the work of the NEKP, which has been launched at administrative level. They will result in a draft of an updated NEKP in June 2023, and a final update of NEKP in June 2024. As far as climate neutrality is concerned, the federal government in its coalition agreement supports the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, and actively engages in European dynamism in this area. As regards energy poverty, the social tariff was significantly increased at the beginning of this period of government. In view of the energy price crisis which subsequently erupted, that measure proved highly necessary. It has been extended twice. The government has approved three packages to mitigate the impact of energy prices on the population, for a total budget of EUR 3 billion. These interventions were needed to help people in the short term, but more structural measures are needed to reduce dependency on fossil fuels for vulnerable households and to turn the energy transition into a project that is both ecological and social. Through the reform of the federal tax towards an excise duty on electricity and gas invoices, we have created an instrument to respond to market conditions and to steer the transition at a later stage. Increasing renewable energy also requires appropriate energy infrastructure. More wind turbines at sea and more interconnections with other countries are an asset to ensure security of supply. We must work in a planned, pragmatic and concerted way to ensure that energy is provided in the homes of citizens. The crisis in Ukraine prompts us not to waste time and accelerate the deployment of our infrastructure. We cannot afford any delay in reducing our dependence. The debate on internal Belgian burden sharing has been chaired by Flemish Minister Demir since January. A few ministerial meetings have already taken place and our staff also meet on a regular basis at technical level. It is important to achieve a result that takes account of each other's sensitivities, but which also guarantees that our country can achieve its objectives. That is why we must work for cooperation, including on the recommendations of the IEA, between the different governments of our country and strengthen each other in order to achieve maximum ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that you confine yourself to the recommendations they made at the press conference. When each international report is published, we are told that this federal state is a particularly complex one in terms of energy and climate policy. Each time, the different levels of government need each other. That remains the common thread, also for many powers of Minister Khattabi. We'll see how that evolves in the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answers to the first two questions I asked. I emphasize your lucidity, which is reflected in the recommendations. I will take a few examples: the updating of the measures you have shown, the objective of carbon neutrality, the protection of precarised households – very important for our group – and the decarbonisation of the economy. Your lucidity is coupled with a willingness to take these various recommendations into account in your policy while also ensuring that you are part of the European dynamic. This is reflected in structural measures and in a more specific measure, which you stressed, which we also support: wind turbines in the North Sea. They can be an asset, as you said, in order to accelerate the deployment of our infrastructure. All of this seems to me to be consistent and consistent with your general policy note. With regard to my third question concerning the discussions between the Federal and the Regions, and the efforts to be made, you have not been very eloquent. I will therefore come back to that on a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u92	Madam Minister, the energy policy of the future is, in your view, long-term thinking and short-term action. This report shows that the previous governments have followed too little that motto. I would like to call on all governments in our country to always bear that in mind. Long-term thinking and short-term action is the only way to achieve the sustainable energy transition. In that report I read a number of recommendations. There's still work on the shelf. You call for this to be done in cooperation with the regional authorities. That report also gives pats on the back for the work you have already done on wind energy at sea and international cooperation. You are drawing out how we can make the energy transition sustainable. It is a good thing that someone thinks in the long term and acts in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u93	Madam Minister, at the end of last month, we read in the press that both the EUR 200 fuel oil discount and the EUR 100 heating premium, which the government promised to reduce the energy bill of families, are encountering practical objections. According to De Tijd, it will be months before the premiums are paid. In the case of the fuel oil premium, there would be no automatic discount on the masquerade supplier's invoice as envisaged, but an ex post refund that would have to be applied for from the government itself. If that's true, it's gonna be a lot of trouble for people to get that fuel oil premium. The payment of the EUR 100 heating premium, which the government promised everyone in February, is also apparently delayed. Madam Minister, what is the state of play with regard to the EUR 100 heating premium and the EUR 200 fuel oil premium? When will they be paid out? Will the families who are entitled to the heating premium, in fact all families, and the families who are entitled to the fuel oil premium, so who heats with masalt, have to take the administrative steps themselves? Or will everyone automatically get what they are entitled to? It is well known, also in the OCMW's, that many people are not aware that they are entitled to certain premiums or do not have the skills to apply for them. In this way, a lot of people miss out on their social rights in this country. People in the most precarious situations often fall out of the boat. I hope that will not be the case for the premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u94	Mr Warmoes, the report on the heating premium in De Tijd is not correct. You were present on 24 February at the discussion and vote on the law on various energy provisions. Chapter 5 of that Act lays down the regulatory framework for the heating premium. In the meantime, the budget for the measure was also approved by Parliament through an adaptation sheet. Payments of the heating premium by energy suppliers will start at the beginning of May. Anyone who does not receive an automatic payment will be able to contact the FPS Economy via a simple online form and a telephone helpline will also be available to citizens. My administration and the energy suppliers are working very closely together to guarantee the payment to each rightholder. As far as the fuel oil premium is concerned, the legal framework for the fuel oil premium is currently being prepared. I have just said that I am competent to do so with my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs, who is the trigger for the initiative of the premium. As Chapter 5 of the Law of 28 February 2022 laying down various energy provisions, the majority of rightholders will automatically receive the heating premium of EUR 100 through a set-off on their energy bill, i.e. via the settlement or via the advance. Those who have not seen a discount after 31 July can claim their right through a simple online application and have until 15 October 2022. As far as possible, therefore, automatic allocation will be made on the basis of the data exchange already in place today for the social tariff. For supply contracts which are not included in the automatic application due to a lack of agreement between the customer data and the national register, the application procedure exists. As far as the fuel oil premium is concerned, the automatic payment is impossible. There is no exchange of data between fuel oil suppliers and the FPS Economy, as exists for electricity in the context of the application of the social tariff. For electricity, monthly or quarterly advances are paid to a fixed supplier, while for fuel oil they are paid at the time of purchase, and that can also be with another supplier at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u95	Madam Minister, as far as the heating premium is concerned, we are generally reassured. Hopefully the payoff will start next week. The fact that this happens automatically is very good. It is also a good thing that a procedure is in place so that everyone can assert their rights. I hope that sufficient information will be provided, including through the OCMWs, so that everyone knows and who would not have seen the money can ask for it. As far as the fuel oil premium is concerned, I'm still a little hungry. I understand that it is less obvious to provide it automatically; apparently there is considerable delay. It seems to me that the fuel oil suppliers have sufficient resources to pay the discount directly on the invoice and then knock it on to you or the government. There too an automatic mechanism should be introduced through suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u96	Madam Minister, at the European summit at the end of the month, the Member States of the European Union reached a rather lean agreement, as far as we are concerned, on tackling the energy crisis and high energy prices. Your proposal for a price ceiling, albeit at an almost ridiculously high level far above current gas prices, was not stopped, however lean it was. Instead, the European Commission will discuss with the energy suppliers whether and how the various options can contribute to a reduction in the gas price. There will also be a non-binding gas group purchase for Member States. The question is what impact this can have if only a few countries take part in it. For us, of course, the current measures are insufficient. There was no mention of a European initiative for skimming over profits. We ask that energy prices be frozen at the level of September 2021. This can be done by disabling the gas exchanges and moving back to long-term contracts, something the Asian countries still have, which the EU as a whole directly negotiates with its trading partners. The price mechanism on the electricity exchange should also be put an end to it. The price of electricity should also be regulated back on the basis of real production costs. This alone would reduce the price of electricity by more than 60%. I have some questions for you. What is your response to the European decisions taken? What do you think of that? How much will the gas price fall according to your estimate due to the famous group purchase? Will Belgium participate and when will it take place? What kind of purchase is this? Is it a long-term contract with indexed prices, a variable contract that follows the stock exchange price, or something else? Is there a European initiative for skimming over profits? As far as we know, nothing was said about it. If so, what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u97	Madam Minister, we will debrief on the European Summit of 24 and 25 March 2022 in Versailles. Several options were proposed to reduce the effects of rising energy prices on households. Among them are the decoupling of the price of electricity from that of gas, the introduction of a temporary cap on wholesale gas prices on the European market - a proposal supported by our country, and that is very well - or the common purchase of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The Council and the Commission were then asked to discuss with the energy sector the feasibility of these proposals in the short term, given the urgency. Madam Minister, could you inform us of the contacts with the European Council and the Commission since that meeting? Have you received any information on the follow-up to the proposals made and, in particular, on the proposal to set a cap on gas prices in the wholesale market? Under what deadlines can we expect a decision to be taken in this direction? It has come back to us that the European Commission, in consultation with the Member States, has set up a platform for joint purchases of natural gas, LNG and hydrogen. Can you tell us to what extent Belgium would interact with this tool? The platform should promote the filling of storage facilities, as well as the proper use of existing gas infrastructure. Would we be able to learn more about its use, which could have an effect on energy prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not in itself right that the idea of a price ceiling should not be taken into account. The idea of intervention at the level of price formation was indeed supported by a number of Member States, such as France, Spain and Italy. There is, therefore, an intervention that can also be located at the price level as one of the options within the EU Energy Purchase Platform to be set up, inter alia, for the co-purchase of gas. Mr Ben Achour, my services are working quickly to set up this platform, which will allow companies in the European Union and not countries to register. The Member States and the Commission shall facilitate such joint purchases and shall provide EU companies with the opportunity to subscribe to them. All Member States agree that the platform will become operational as soon as possible. Belgium is therefore actively involved in the development of this platform, but it is not for a Member State to participate, it is for Belgian gas importers to register. The impact of this situation is indeed considerable given the statement of intent by the United States to provide additional LNG this year. The European Union platform is used to allocate these additional supplies to the EU markets most in need. One of the trading elements in this bundled purchase is the price and we are thinking of a price freeze on the Henry Hub, the US gas benchmark market in the United States. Since these U.S. prices are much lower and less volatile, this would have the same effect as a price freeze and would disrupt market forces much less. Mr Warmoes, we have already talked about the excess profits. You are in favour of price freezes and price regulation based on actual production costs. Especially for price freezes, you know that our country has called for them to be implemented as an emergency or emergency measure and also as a structural measure to remove the volatility of gas prices from the market. At the same time, you also know that the European gas and electricity market model is based on free pricing, because the price signals that result from it must trigger investment. This market model is strongly defended by the European regulator ACER on the indications of European regulators, as is our own regulator, the CREG. You have often referred here in committee to certain conclusions in CREG opinions and studies on the need to support the new capacity in the CRM. I would like to point out that those conclusions of the CREG were based on its view that high prices would attract the necessary investments to ensure our security of supply. The CREG supports and even promotes a model that reinforces these price signals, in particular the so-called scarcity pricing mechanism. In this sense, it is important for me that each of us makes a choice about the market model that we choose and that the figures we use in our talks on security of supply are accordingly aligned. I do not think it can be argued, on the one hand, that the CREG is followed, for example, by 100% in terms of security of supply and investment, knowing that the view of the CREG is based on high prices. The CREG has also always indicated that we would just attract investment because of these high prices. That is also absolutely her right, it is not because it is not an opportunity assessment. On the other hand, however, it cannot be said at the same time that high prices are not desirable. My opinion, which I have always defended, also here in committee, is that we cannot achieve security of supply at artificially high prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u99	Madam Minister, I believe that even his worst enemies can be taught things, because even those can sometimes put forward useful arguments. With regard to the CRM, we have indeed referred to the CREG, but that is a technical discussion on figures. We know, of course, that the CREG strongly supports the market model, partly because certain liberal forces are in favour of it. However, that does not prevent us from distinguishing one from the other. You have talked about the market model, but I will not tell you anything new if I say that we do not believe in it. The measures we propose with PVDA go against the market model. The mark model did not always exist, it only came about with liberalisation. There are other models that we believe more. In our opinion, the market model has proved to be bankrupt, something whose current high prices are proof, as well as the very slow transition. In my oral question, I have already mentioned what measures we are proposing. I take note of the fact that, in your view, the last word has not yet been said on the issue of a price ceiling. We are effectively in favour of a price ceiling, of course at a sufficiently low level. As far as American gas is concerned, it is not unknown to you that it is mainly, I thought at 80%, about shale gas. This is a major problem in terms of energy transition and environmental friendliness.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for the information provided. I believe that Belgium must plead at European level for a finding. Indeed, the liberalisation of the market, the way in which the energy market at European level is organised, is out of date and in any case has not kept its promises, both in terms of prices and in terms of security of supply, particularly in a context marked by war. It is necessary to be able, to have the ambition to propose solutions that will contradict these fundamental principles of the liberalised market, which has now shown all its limits. Households see this every day when they receive their invoices. We need to push for a cap on energy prices. We have to impose maximum prices. There is also a need to move forward on the idea of a single buyer at European level. It is certainly something that will help us in this fight against high prices. So we'll remain very vigilant. The stakes are great. I have often said that the energy price crisis is no less serious, no less serious and no less important than the covid crisis. It can lead to a profound and serious social crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u101	Madam Minister, this question is a result of your reply to a written question from me on the resources of the Synatom Fund for the disposal of high radioactive waste and the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. In your reply, you write that the Nuclear Facilities Commission estimates the total cost at EUR 18 billion, price level at the end of 2020. At the end of 2020, according to your answer, there was still EUR 14 billion in the Synatom Fund. I take it for a moment that those 14 billion are not actually in that fund, because Engie Electrabel has lent a large part of that money to himself and has yet to return it. The Synatom Fund is EUR 14 billion rich, if I may sum it up. Once Engie Electrabel has completely returned, there is a mathematically EUR 4 billion too short in the Synatom Fund to cover the cost of disposing of radioactive waste and decommissioning of nuclear power plants, as estimated by the Nuclear Facilities Commission. I was really surprised when I read this. In my written question, I asked: "How much euro is missing from the Synatom Fund to meet all the needs of the decommissioning of nuclear waste? In other words, what capital injection is needed for the Synatom Fund?" Your answer to this was that a capital injection was not currently considered. That surprises me even more, because unless I understand something wrong, there is a deficit of 4 billion. Madam Secretary, do you confirm that there is a deficit of EUR 4 billion in the Synatom Fund? If so, why should there not be a need for a capital injection with this deficit? How is this fact taken into account in the negotiations with Engie Electrabel on the possible extension of the lifetime of Objective 4 and Tihange 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u102	Madam Minister, on your birthday, i.e. 1 April, a draft Royal Decree and a preliminary draft law on the national policy measure on the long-term management of highly radioactive and/or long-lived waste were finally adopted. The long-awaited design of KB is now apparently the starting point of a participatory process, announced in the coalition agreement, which will gradually frame all further policy choices. In line with the coalition agreement, these policy choices can be reconsidered at each step, leading to a recommendation to confirm or adapt this choice. According to the government, the decision-making process should include the principle of reversibility regarding the long-term management solution, i.e. a systematic re-evaluation of the choices made. Recoverability and monitoring are also led. The preliminary draft law provides that NIRAS is to draw up a roadmap for the research and development activities for deep disposal in Belgium of high-activity long-lived waste, structurally financed by the waste producers. Does this mean that the government has accepted the proposed technical solution of geological disposal in the strategic draft plan submitted by NIRAS and has therefore taken a very first decision on the type of final destination, namely a system of geological disposal without choice of where, how and when it is realized? At what stage should NIRAS examine the possibility of developing common storage facilities, for example with France, with neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u103	Mr Warmoes, I did indeed reply that there is no need for capital injection, because the so-called deficit of EUR 4 billion will automatically be filled over time. The necessary amount of 4 billion you are talking about corresponds to the difference between what is already in the provisions and the cost calculation. Additional amounts will be paid for the management of irradiated nuclear fuels on the basis of the additional nuclear fuel consumed in the coming years. The arrangements for the management of irradiated nuclear fuels are supplemented on the basis of the spent nuclear fuels. The return on investment will completely eliminate the remaining so-called deficit, which is why I said in my reply that an additional injection of capital is not necessary. In the meantime, by the end of 2021, the provisions amount to EUR 14.375 billion. There is no real deficit, and that is not the subject of the negotiations either, because the draft law on the revision of the regulatory framework for commissions is submitted last Thursday and considered by the plenary and will therefore shortly be discussed. That gives us the opportunity to discuss the topic even further, Mr Warmoes. It is, of course, an important dossier, in which we have substantially changed the regulatory framework, but it is also, of course, an important one in the long term. It is the longest and the most delicate yard, on which great resources are opposed, in which we work on the one hand with overnight costs and what if it were to be developed at 24 o'clock and on the other hand with nominal expenditure. Effective commissions are being set up for this purpose, which need to grow to a larger amount. How that happens is part of the design. That is quite an explanation, but it allows me to explain why I answered what I said. As part of the discussion of the draft law on nuclear commissions, we can also discuss the opportunity and reasoning behind certain matters, which is, of course, more difficult in the context of an oral question, where the President always asks us to limit our speaking time to two minutes. I would just like to say that I certainly do not want to ignore the pertinence and importance of your question. Mr Warmoes, on 1 April my birthday was indeed a ministerial council in which a number of important decisions were taken, including the second reading of the nuclear commission bill, as well as this decision on long-term work. I would like to thank you for asking a question. After all, there have been several questions in the past about the state of affairs, about the timing and when the design would come, but now that it is there, you are the only one asking to explain what is in it and how I will deal with it correctly. On 1 April, at first reading, the Council of Ministers adopted the first part of national policies. This first part includes, on the one hand, the policy choice for deep salvage and, on the other hand, provides for the principles of a participatory reversible decision-making process to be developed. This process will frame the step-by-step development of the policy choice. The draft Royal Decree laying down this national policy measure was forwarded to the Council of State for advice. At the same time, the Council of Ministers has also decided to organise a social debate to prepare the second part of national policies. We have therefore adopted at first reading a preliminary draft law which, among other things, provides for the financing of this social debate. This was also transferred to the Council of State for advice. The social debate should also reconsider the policy choice for the deep salvage, as the first part of national policies, and lead to a recommendation to confirm or adapt this choice. That was an explicit question in the public consultation. It was also included in the comments of the various regions, in this case it was a comment from the Flemish Region to be able to reconsider at any time. Taking into account the decades needed to develop deep storage, it is not excluded that an alternative solution for storage and/or possible optimization for storage may be created. Therefore, the draft royal decree provides for reversibility. In this context, NIRAS is responsible for studying alternatives to disposal on Belgian territory, in addition to the continuation of the decades of research already carried out by the institution in the context of the deep disposal of this type of waste. Mr Ravyts, your last question had apparently fallen out of the Chamber's system. Indeed, we have asked NIRAS to participate in ERDO to see if common disposal solutions are possible. With regard to the concrete timing of this, I would prefer to reply another time. If you submit a new question, it will be automatically activated. Mr President, more generally, I would like to propose the following. This is a royal decision. In principle royal decisions are not discussed in committee, legislative work is limited to laws. Since it is a very crucial step, we may be able to use the same method as offshore winds. There is also much regulated by royal decree. We had an exchange of views on this in committee, on the alleged approach, the impact and so on. Certainly as far as policy measures are concerned, it is the first time that a decision has been taken, and its approach, it may be a good idea for me to explain this. You organize the work, of course. In any case, should there be a question coming from Parliament, I would like to be willing and available to explain it more fundamentally or we can link it up when the draft law on consultation is ready. The subject deserves an exchange of views, especially since we are organising a public debate and Parliament is the first parliament. It may be a good kick-off to discuss this subject thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u104	Madam Minister, we did not realize that we needed to look at this dynamically and not statically. That's how we understand it better now. We are, of course, looking forward to the debate within the framework of the draft law, which has already been included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u105	Madam Minister, you may be able to read thoughts, because I also wanted to suggest this, perhaps not in exactly the same form. Before the summer of 2021, we debated strongly the strategic plan of NIRAS, which was subject to some commotion and concern, especially in the province of Luxembourg. In any case, you respond to the European Commission's remark that the Belgian authorities had not yet approved KB and had not yet developed long-term management.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u106	Madam Minister, a long time ago, the government approved at first reading the transposition of the Electricity Market Design Directive (EDD). An opinion was also requested from the Council of State. It is not clear what has happened to the preliminary draft budget since then. In your policy paper, you announced its implementation, but it seems to me that this transposition will have to be completed first. How are you doing with that file today? Where are there any bottlenecks? When can we deal with this dossier in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u107	The preliminary draft has indeed been submitted to the Council of State and I have received its opinion. The Data Protection Authority has also delivered its opinion. Following these opinions, we made the necessary adjustments to the preliminary draft law. The government is currently discussing it for the second time. So far, no bottlenecks have been identified. Once the second reading has been completed, Parliament will have the text and be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u108	Madam Minister, we look forward to the text, which is long overdue. Your statement that no bottlenecks have been detected so far is striking. In fact, I thought that there had been problems in the consultation rounds. But you might have gotten them out of the world in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u109	I have a question, Madam Secretary, about the social tariff and co-ownership. I also have a resolution on co-property, because there are some bottlenecks there. If we were to solve this problem, and that is not only your competence, we would still be able to move forward. What I'm presenting now, I think, is an annoying thing. There are people who would be covered by the social tariff if their contract was not concluded in the co-ownership by the syndician or the VME itself. So they actually determine the commercial fare after all. I do not know whether you are aware of this problem, or perhaps in contact with shareholders, for example, and whether there could be a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u110	Thank you for your question and the resolution that has already been finalised or is still in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u111	There has been a hearing and we have now drafted a number of amendments on the basis of the hearing. We will then submit these with the intention of discussing them next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u112	I look forward to your resolution. This is a real problem. In the current functioning of the social tariff, it is not possible for a syndician to apply the social rate to a resident entitled to a claim and to do so to the CREG. Syndici also do not provide data from residents behind a collective connection to the FOD because these data would be included in the trimesterial processing. Only the energy suppliers provide customer data from residential contracts to the FPS Economy for the application of the social tariff and are legally obliged to apply the maximum prices. The social tariff already provides today that collective gas connections in social housing generally benefit from the social tariff. In order to encourage the use of heat pumps, such a scheme for the social tariff electricity is also being examined. My administration and the CREG are looking for solutions to reach those right holders that we cannot reach within the current functioning of the social tariff. It is therefore examined whether compensation as a fixed premium, such as for the social rate water in Flanders, is practically feasible and/or in accordance with the federal powers of energy and assistance to persons. Collective connections also generally do not have residential but professional electricity contracts subject to other advantages and conditions. Moreover, unlike customers behind an individual counter, residents enjoy a federal discount on the special excise duty on energy. It's been there since a 20 megawatt hour drop. A further reduction is from 50 megawatts. The social rate has been treated stepmotherly for years. The extension of the rightholder's BIM and the capping are today useful in protecting one million families from the unprecedented price increases. Now that the social tariff is one of the most important dams against energy poverty and the pressure from high prices is so high, the cracks in the system are of course also visible. The law on various energy provisions of 28 February has already done a number of things, but of course many questions remain. We are also discussing with our team what a thorough review of the social tariff might look like. Of course, this is not an obvious exercise, because the problems we face are often more complex in nature. This must also be part of the energy transition and regional powers. I just said no residential contract. That is of course because in the Flemish energy decree a contract with a VME is a professional contract. A professional contract is defined there as a contract concluded with someone who has a CBO number. A VME has a CBO number. So it's a professional contract. Difficult things are there to be solved. I look forward to discussing the resolution in Parliament, which can certainly guide us if we think further about how the social tariff could be reformed. In the context of the energy transition, there are also other questions about VMEs, for example about energy parts. At federal level, through the VME legislation, we may be able to facilitate action, especially with regard to the powers of the Regions. These are also discussions where the advantages and disadvantages and interests have to be weighed against each other. These are not obvious discussions, but I appreciate the fact that the less obvious issues and the technically more difficult issues are systematically addressed by this committee so that we can work together to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic759x.u113	Madam Minister, I expected the answer given the nature of the problem. I think that today many more people are interested in the social tariff, because they are looking for protection and because they read and hear about it. It is well known that this is not possible because of the circumstances in which one sits. So this is a complex fact. You're right to say that difficult cases are there to be resolved. I hope we can do this for a while. We will continue to work on the resolution and you can also continue to work on other aspects of this issue.
