ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u1	Madam President, Minister, from one crisis to the next, it seems to us that we are in different roles. Indeed, a number of cases of monkey pox have been identified in Europe. That's causing a certain amount of concern. Of course, we must be careful not to cause panic, but the virus turns out to be an infectious disease, which is now also causing casualties in our country. I would have liked to ask you some factual questions. We have heard how many cases there are in the meantime. However, to what extent do you currently have a view of the causes, but also of the modification of the virus in relation to the strains found in Africa? A further publication has been published today, expressing some concern about that other genome and warning that if there were many more cases, the virus could remain in Europe. How do you estimate these warnings? Is the genome completely determined? Has it been passed on to the labs? I was in the clinical lab with us in the municipality on Monday, where it was stated that the lab had not received an official letter from the RAG. In the meantime, there has been a communication to the general practitioners. However, to what extent can you already be in all communications? I would have liked to have heard from you the following. What about the stock and stocks of Vistide or Cidofovir, which can be used to treat monkey pox? Will you order extra vaccines? Do you consider vaccination in groups at risk or in groups living with someone who has been diagnosed with monkey pox?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u2	Minister, is there a reference centre for infectious diseases such as monkey pox disease? Which agencies follow them, besides the Institute of Tropical Medicine? The RAG has already met on this subject for the first time. What is his view on the infections with the virus in question? Which schematic is used to deal with it? In what way and through what channels will care providers be informed? Are certain target groups informed, for example the visitors of the Darklands Festival, to which the infection is linked? Is the target group particularly kept informed and called for vigilance? Are there any more data available on the mode of transmission, infectiousness, virulence and infection fatality rate? What preventive advice is provided? Are specific preventive advice given to care providers in relation to particular target groups? Which laboratories can work with the monkey pox virus? Which labs do PCR analyses? Is there any sequencing going on? If so, through which center? What are the results of this? What therapy can be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u3	Mr Minister, in the face of the circulation of this Monkey Pox virus, the monkey smallpox, in countries where this virus is usually absent, and in the face of the diagnosis of many cases on a European scale, in countries - I repeat - where this virus is normally absent, we are obviously invited to take a number of measures, beyond, of course, all that is being done today in terms of sequencing, determination of variants, mutations, transmission behaviour, etc., in scientific terms. I will deal with four points, if I may. They concern what I have tabled and what I think is important, with the news, to complete. First, there was no information available online, whereas the other countries had already reacted on Thursday, 19 May, to define exactly the cases and allow for centralized reporting procedures, to have the definition of contact cases, to have the reference of the laboratories in a position to provide diagnosis by PCR, to have the clear isolation measures for suspect and contact cases, and to know the isolation procedures. There was some information directed to the caregivers. It seems to me important to have complete online information that is constantly updated. This is not yet the case on the Sciensano site. I checked this morning. Would it not be fundamental to do so? Secondly, isolation is a major issue. In this regard, some advocates hospital isolation for all proven cases. Why? Because it is fundamental to avoid the establishment of new permanent animal reservoirs and reservoirs outside Africa, which would really be a major public health problem. It is known that at home there may be contamination via sewers, household waste, to rats, pets, and to livestock. We really need to look at the one health component very early. Is this taken into account at the level of the Belgian authorities? In relation to this, has the decision to have systematic hospital isolation been made? There are few cases at the moment. So it's better to practice this one health approach. Thirdly, as far as contact cases are concerned... have I already exhausted my speaking time? Minister, I still had questions about the vaccine, particularly about ring vaccination, ring vaccination. Do we still have the doses? The Supreme Council of Health had determined that there were 10 million doses, in any case in 2015. Fourth, what about the potential treatments Tecovirimat and Brincidofovir, vaccines and treatment? Is there a European approach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u4	Minister, I will try not to repeat too much, but I have a number of other questions. The general practitioners received an effective letter yesterday, but it did not arrive by e-mail until 12.40 p.m. That's pretty late, of course. How do you explain that late mail, since there was information available all weekend? Why is there no information available on the website of Sciensano? For many people and care providers today it is a reflex to look at that site. However, there is nothing on it. Why did you choose to work with some reference centres? The general practitioner can thus do nothing except send someone to the emergency service, which then has to send the person to a reference centre if there is a suspicion. Why can't general practitioners do a PCR test themselves? What precise measures were taken following the outbreak at the Darklands Festival? Can you elaborate on that? How many visitors have been at the festival, which potentially came into contact with the virus? Have hygiene inspectors been involved in this? Are any contact trackers enabled? What are the WHO and ECDC directives? What about the strategic stock of smallpox vaccines? Why did you choose not to administer vaccines to people who have had a risk contact with a person infected with the smallpox virus for the time being? Finally, what struck me in this respect was the way in which such a strong emphasis was placed on men who have sex with men. There has indeed been an outbreak at the Darklands Festival, but not all persons going to the festival are homosexual. There was also an article in De Morgen this morning about the risk of stigmatisation of those persons and of underdiagnosis as a result. What's your opinion on that? How do you think we can go against that? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u5	Madam President, I will be brief. Most of the questions have already been asked and I will therefore refer to the question that has been put. In recent weeks, the monkey pox virus has spread worldwide. Also in Belgium we have two confirmed cases. The monkey pox virus is related to the small pox (small pox) that we knew in our parts until 1980. Then the vaccination campaign was stopped because the virus was eradicated by the effective vaccines. Smallpox steel was only present in 2 labs, one in the US and one in Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u6	Mr Zanchetta is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been outlined very well. On the basis of the plan of action, it is also clear to me how this will work. I was also concerned when I read about the dangers, including for young children, pregnant women and unborn life. The virus can cause birth defects. This may be exceptional cases, but it is important to look at them. Minister, I would have liked to have heard your plan of action. Colleagues also asked about the international and European approach. I would like to join in that. We're in for a pretty busy summer. There are many events and there will also be a lot of traveling in the coming weeks and months. A European and international approach is therefore needed. I would have liked to have heard your plan of action in this area. Has consultation started yet? How's this gonna go?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u8	Are there any colleagues who did not put a question to the floor? This can be done in the questionnaire or in the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u9	Madam President, I should like to apologise to Mrs Zanchetta, who has had to return to the Committee on Justice. Have any recommendations been made by the World Health Organization (WHO) and by European bodies concerning the monkey smallpox virus? The aerosol transmission hypothesis should be excluded. What do we know today about the methods of contamination of this virus? Do we have more information to give our fellow citizens? What recommendations have been given to doctors and hospitals in our country to enable them to anticipate and have the right attitudes now? Is a strategy ready to limit the spread of the virus, both in our country and at European level? How do you intend to inform citizens about the measures to be taken in case of symptoms? The citizens, as we have seen with Covid-19, need clear and rapid information. In the recommendations during the crisis of the covid-19, a good channel of communication was required. Have you already put in place such a channel of communication, particularly with regard to the measures to be taken by citizens in case of symptoms, including quarantine? Are all clinical laboratories able to perform the test analysis today? What about vaccination? Are there enough doses of traditional vaccines available to effectively control monkey smallpox? Is there a strategic stock? I mean, Pr. Emmanuel André said that it was necessary to intensify disease surveillance at the international level, and that we should stop considering that we would be spared from "tropical" diseases. How can this monitoring be improved? I am somewhat out of line with today's debate, but my colleague, Zanchetta, wanted me to relay this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, monkeypox is a sylvatic zoonoses with occasional human infections, which usually occurs sporadically in wooded parts of Central and West Africa. It is caused by the monkeypox virus that belongs to the family of orthopox viruses, including the variola virus. There are two genetically different variants of the virus: the Central African (Congo Basin clade) and the West African. Outside Africa, human monkey pox is rare. The transfer of man to man is also limited. The longest documented chain of transfer involved six generations. The disease can be transmitted via contact with body fluids, skin injuries or internal mucosal surfaces, such as in the mouth or throat, respiratory drops and contaminated objects. Possible transfer via aerosols cannot be excluded, but we do not know today. That is a very important difference with the COOVID-19 story, which is still fresh in our minds. The incubation period, the time between infection and symptoms, is usually 7 to 14 days, but may range from 5 to 21. Monkeypox is not considered contagious during the incubation period, but a transfer two days or more before onset of symptoms cannot be excluded and should be studied further. For most people, monkeypox is a self-limiting disease that usually lasts two to four weeks and involves a complete recovery. But in some cases it can be more serious and needs hospitalization. The severity of the disease is influenced by the route of infection. So far, there has never been a case of monkeypox without a direct travel link with an endemic area outside Africa. That is highly unusual. Also transmission under the MSM community, i.e. men who have sex with men, has never been reported before. The UK Health Security Agency classified the event as unusual for the area, season or population. The reason for the current outbreak is not yet known. The cases reported in Europe usually have a very mild course of disease with few or no systematic symptoms. Right now, we have four confirmed cases, all with mild complaints. Until now, these patients have only needed symptomatic treatment. Several international and national bodies monitor the monkey pox virus. Internationally there are the World Health Organisation and the ECDC. The International Notification and Registration System Early Warning and Response System is also used at European level. Nationally, we have the National Focal Point, with the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and the Risk Management Group (RMG). The RAG evaluates the risks, the RMG proposes concrete actions. At national level, there are also Sciensano, the federal and regional health administrations, while the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, the Rega Institute and the University of Leuven make the diagnosis. The ECDC issued an interim opinion on May 23 to establish a definition of the case. I'm referring to his website. All physicians were informed about the physiopathology of monkey smallpox, symptoms, disease evolution, incubation period, diagnostics to be used, etc. as well as measures to be taken for suspect and confirmed cases and their contact at risk. As I speak to you, there is a meeting of the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and the Risk Management Group (RMG), which deals with everything that is operational. Perhaps appropriate or new recommendations will be made. I can't get ahead of decisions. All information from international bodies, such as ECDC, is taken into account. An opinion has also been requested from the High Health Council on vaccination and at European level an examination is being made of the possibilities for therapeutics. As you know, the RAG currently estimates the overall impact on Belgian public health as low, but cases and clusters may occur in men who have sex with men, but also in others, including those with frequent sexual contacts. I have said it before, also on TV, one has to be correct in how one communicates about this. Monkeypox is not a sexually transmitted disease. As far as we know, it's not transmitted via sperm, but through the types of body fluid I mentioned, for example, drops. In other words, the fact that we now see the disease in communities of homosexual men in different countries in Europe does not tell us where the virus is moving and how it can move. Mrs Merckx, we must indeed be careful not to miscapture this in a society where, unfortunately, homophobia still exists, unfortunately and wrongly. If one finds that contamination is circulating in a particular community, it is efficient to inform that community and to set up targeted action. That's what we've done, public but also behind the scenes. Because we detected the festival Darklands as a place where there apparently have been infections, the festival organizers have been contacted with the request to inform the participants about the risk of infection. The organisers of Darklands have picked that up in a very correct way, and they have provided information to the people they could reach. On Friday there has also been sensitization of the participants of the Belgian Pride by the Joint Community Committee of Cocom. This simply seems to me to be an obvious service, and this must have nothing to do with stigmatisation. As far as testing is concerned, it should be borne in mind that there is a test based on the fact that someone has injuries and vesicles. The test assumes that you can capture the moisture in those vesicles. So you can't actually test until those symptoms manifest. That is, of course, an important limit for what you can do preventively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u11	The question was raised as to the definition of high-risk contacts. High-risk contacts are family contacts and sexual partners of confirmed cases and caregivers who have had unprotected contact with a patient with skin lesions. The current recommendation is that high-risk contacts should monitor their health for 21 days after exposure and consult an emergency department if skin damage occurs. These contacts should avoid any close contact, including sexual contact, with others for 21 days. Suspicious cases should be placed in direct and indirect contact isolation pending diagnosis and should refrain from sexual contact. Confirmed cases should be isolated for direct and indirect contact until the skin lesions are fully cured and, above all, refrain from sexual contact. These are the current recommendations, but I cannot rule out that the RMG decides to adapt them. There is a need for maximum consistency with respect to recommendations. At European level, there are already some disparities. I believe the role of ECDC is important. There are no medicines available for immunocompromised individuals and Cidofovir is currently not available, but the therapeutics can be scaled up in the short term, including through the European Union. Tecovirimat SIGA was recently approved by the EEA for the treatment of orthopox viruses, including monkey pox virus. However, it is not yet available in Belgium. Studies in different animal species have shown that Tecovirimat is effective in the treatment of orthopox viruses, but data on efficacy in the treatment of human cases of monkey pox are not available. Clinical studies in humans have shown that the medicine is safe and well tolerated, with only minor side effects. Treatment with Tecovirimat may be considered for immunocompromised patients, if available. There are concrete discussions on the availability and possible purchase of the vaccine at European level. The High Health Council has also asked for advice on the place of vaccination in this strategy. I repeat, the smallpox vaccine is effective against monkey pox. I repeat that it is preferable not to provide information on the exact number of vaccines available in Belgium, as these are part of the counter-terrorism measures. In any case, there is no stock problem, really not! We have enough vaccines available. Our test capacity is also sufficient. To diagnose it, a BSL-3 lab is needed. Only a limited number of laboratories meet this requirement. Diagnostics can be performed by the Institute of Tropical Medicine and the Rega Institute in Leuven. For this purpose, a PCR should be applied to a wiper of the lesions. There is a list of other laboratories available at European level that can be accessed, if necessary. It is always possible to use international labs. Hospitals, particularly emergency services, were informed about diagnostics and treatment. The recommendation at the moment, which may still evolve, is that symptoms should be sent to the emergency service. We are, of course, also in constant consultation with the various professions in the care sector, including the general practitioners. The question arises whether we retain the recommendation for persons with symptoms to contact the emergency services of a hospital or whether we amend that recommendation. The information was sent to first and second-line doctors, emergency services, specialized hospitals and labs, through different channels. That's coordinated by the RMG. The communities have addressed specific target groups, either directly or through relevant organisations. Sciensano has already communicated with specialised centres for awareness and information. On the basis of today's RAG opinion and the RMG meeting, we will formulate and communicate additional measures with regard to healthcare providers, if necessary. They will also be published on a specific web page of Sciensano, entitled'monkeypox'. To be honest, I thought it already existed. I have an address here with the last part of monkeypox.aspx. On 20 May, an official communication was made to the general population. The communication to the population is carried out through the FPS Public Health and the regional health administrations. As far as the procedure is concerned, we are now in a normal and regular schedule. We follow the procedure established by the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organisation, incorporated in a protocol agreement of 2018. The National Focal Point, supported by the RAG and the RMG, monitors national and international health threats. The RAG runs the risk analysis, the RMG runs the risk management. The Länder are also represented in the RMG. As regards surveillance in general, Sciensano has recently submitted a proposal to the federal and regional health authorities, including, in a first phase, an integration of the systems specific to COVID-19 into wider systems, and in the longer term an automatic extraction of test results from clinical labs to a selection of other infectious diseases and health data relevant to public health. In addition, the creation of a digital infrastructure with automatic data extraction to general practitioners and hospitals, with the aim of having a faster detection of signals. That's a Sciensano proposal. We still need to talk about this, but it is planned that we will bring it up at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health in June 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u12	Indeed, Minister, information and awareness are very important. Our citizens remember how bad the information was at the start of the covid crisis. We do not benefit from any kind of panic. However, I still have a concern. For the test capacity, please refer to the Institute of Tropical Medicine and to the Rega Institute. When I listen to the clinical lab in my congregation, I hear it's really ready. I would encourage you not to make the same mistake as at the start of the covid crisis. So please decentralise. The RAG is meeting today. So let them share the protocol and make sure that the general practitioners can go to the lab with which they usually work to analyze the samples. Otherwise, you will see blue crocodiles again appearing on the rules of the general practitioners. They are more than administrative staff, they are clinically trained to deal with all kinds of crises. You said that smallpox vaccination is good if there are enough vaccines. I have heard that other countries will order extra vaccines today. We certainly need to ensure that we have sufficient supplies, in case it is necessary to vaccinate the younger people who have not yet received smallpox vaccine. You quoted it, vaccination protects 80 %. Regarding tecovirimat or cidofovir, please refer to a European joint procurement. I would like to point out that the joint procuration of the virus inhibitors which are necessary for the covidviruses has not yet been achieved. So if you want to have drugs quickly, you may already be able to negotiate bilaterally with the companies, so that we are not the last in the class again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u13	Minister, with you, I hope that this virus will be contained. Good communication is indeed important, but on the homepage of the website of Sciensano nothing can be found about monkeypox. I always tend to check the website rivm.nl and there it is the first point on the home page. In view of the existing concerns of citizens, due attention should be paid to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u14	Mrs. Gijbels, I have a link that works. There may be something wrong with the organisation of the Sciensano website which makes it difficult for you, but I will provide you with that link through the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u15	Mr Minister, you are just showing us where the problem is, because that is always coming back. After all, you have dictated complicated links before. That is why this is a point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u16	Mrs Gijbels, I agree. I'll pass that on, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u17	We're dealing with a zoonosis here again. I think that should ring a bell. The ITM also points out this aspect, which is linked to the unfortunately still existing consumption of bushmeat or brousse meat. That must be kept in the forefront. You should discuss this with your fellow ministers who are also responsible. In fact, the beef sector concerns several areas of competence, in particular customs, food safety, the environment and public health. I believe that this should even be discussed at European or international level, so that real attention continues to be paid to it. Those zoonoses, I think, should really be seen as a serious threat to our society. In my opinion, the aspect of brousse meat is not secondary, but one of the causes, both in the coronapandemic and now with that monkeypox.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u18	Minister, I insist. The information will be constantly updated, so that with a single click, all caregivers must be able to easily access the information. Let's not repeat the mistakes of the past with the covid-19. The same information needs to be updated at different levels – at Sciensano level, in the Regions, etc. – because we've had different information and that's not right. Secondly, tracing is a major issue, and I hope that its effectiveness is well guaranteed. Similarly, sufficient testing capacity must be ensured that delivers results quickly, in order to allow us to make the necessary isolation decisions, if any. In my view, your answer leaves open some key questions, in particular regarding the isolation of confirmed cases in hospital in order to avoid any occurrence of animal reservoirs which do not exist on European territory and which must be avoided absolutely. Then, to the question of ring vaccination of index case contacts, you did not answer, whereas in my view this is an important element. I mean, you didn't answer me about the Imvanex vaccine either. I'm glad to hear that we have enough attenuated vaccines for varioles, but you know that there is also a much more recent vaccine for varioles, a latest-generation vaccine called Imvanex. The Higher Council of Health already referred to it in 2015. Mr Minister, seven years later, should we not at least have enough at European level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u19	Minister, I cannot get the impression that there has been no lessons learned from the covid crisis. First of all, I regret that there is nothing on Sciensano's website. There are a number of things on the Health and Health website or AVIQ. The lack of any centralised approach is really a problem. Secondly, the tests, which are only carried out with a patient with clear vesicles at the festival, cannot be carried out today by the general practitioners. Taking a PCR test can't be that hard. We've been doing it for two years. I wonder why this should be considered. This should be possible under certain conditions. I still have questions about the festival. How many people were there? You say that the organisers informed the visitors via a message on the website. The official directive is 21 days of isolation for high risk contact. Are all spectators at the festival considered a high risk contact or not? That's not really clear. I don't know if all these people were properly informed and asked to babysit. I believe that communication is also stigmatizing. It is said that a high risk contact should not be in contact with other persons. This also means that there must be no sexual contact with other persons. However, that is mentioned again. I keep finding that problematic. There is a difference between a communication that a virus has spread at an event and one that stigmats an entire community. The hundreds of thousands of people who participated in the Pride must therefore be informed. What risk have we run of the monkey pox virus, because we have been walking outdoors in the streets of Brussels? I think that we really need to beware of stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My reservations are somewhat the same as those of my colleagues. I do hope that we have learned something from the corona crisis. One of those things should be that, since there are still a lot of uncertainties, you are somewhat reluctant and do not pretend to be certain that something is sister or something. Or contamination happens via aerosols, I remember that in the middle of the corona crisis it was strongly denied that contamination went through the aerosols, while it had to be contradicted for a year and a half, when a lot of time had already been lost. So I'd pay attention to putting things in place. On the other hand, you must stress that there is little conscience for the time being and that every statement is based on what we know at the moment. There's nothing wrong with admitting that people don't know everything. Communication was a pain point and will apparently again be a pain point. I hope the link works. It is striking that when you type "monkeypox" in Google, even with "Sciensano" behind it, you don't find anything, but in the fourth link you find something from the RIVM. In the Netherlands it seems to be working, not here with us. I don't know why that is. I'll leave it to you to find out what's going on. As far as the approach to the corona pandemic is concerned, I have repeatedly noted that the general practitioners were excluded. This seems to be the case again. I hope that you will consult the general practitioners with a listening ear and not with all kinds of premises. The general practitioners can really carry out tasks for which they are trained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. What has happened to us today has been predicted by organisms like the WWF, which alerted us to the growing risk of ever having zoonoses in view of the globalization and footprint of man on nature. So we had already received these alert signals. Thank you for taking the lead in bringing together the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and the Risk Management Group (RMG). It must be noted that the lessons of the health crisis need to be learned in terms of testing, support for isolated people, as well as communication for general practitioners, healthcare staff and the general population. The answers you have given us today call for further questions, if only in relation to the mode of transmission. You tell us that there is an unknown case of possible aerosol transmission. Are any research carried out on this subject at Belgian or European level? As far as testing is concerned, you say that it is only done in case of significant symptoms, skin problems or pustular rash. Why limit testing to these cases? Is it a purely political decision or is it linked to a possible under-capacity for testing, as in the context of the crisis of the covid-19? In terms of support for emergency services, you tell us that the information has been communicated. But the question remains whether these services are able to meet all the demands. We know how tired the nursing staff is, and even understaffed as a result of the various waves of the Covid-19. As far as vaccines are concerned, you say that there is a very important strategic stock. Are these vaccines effective enough to control monkey smallpox? You also told the press that you were discussing at European level with a company to be able to buy vaccines adapted to this variant. Finally, I have to go back to the possible link between the sexual practices of the LGBTQIA+ community and the monkey smallpox. This raises the question, and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) has called the alarm, saying that the resulting homophobic slippages could quickly undermine the response to the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u22	Mrs. Rohonyi, could you conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u23	I think it is important, as with blood donation, to end the amalgam between having multiple sexual partners, which is sexual behaviour at risk, and simply having a different sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u24	It will not be the last time we have a debate on this. We've received the link and it's working. After the committee, the secretariat will provide it to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u25	Minister, the situation was already critical in intensive care in particular and among caregivers in general even before the epidemic of covid-19 and it has since worsened. The new KCE report published on May 20 reveals very worrying indicators on the part of nurses working in intensive care. As a result, 43 per cent of them are at high risk of burnout, with the same intention of leaving their profession, while more than 60 per cent consider that the quality of care is deteriorating. In addition, some parameters are not met: 1.8 out of 9 for clinical activities, 1.6 out of 5 for planning and communication. In short, this study confirms several evidences. Minister, whether it is intensive care, hospital units in general, or other nursing care in nursing homes, MRS and at home, a plan to attract the profession is required. I am thinking of the recognition of specializations, of remuneration, of working conditions, of their compatibility with family life, of managerial standards to be defined according to services and of day and night work on the basis of international ratios guaranteeing the safety of care according to the number of patients per nurse. Similarly, one should not forget the tenability of the trade, in terms of the pension and the correction of the IFIC. Minister, when will a plan to attract the nursing profession take effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u26	Minister, according to the study mentioned above, one fifth of ICU nurses are at high risk of burnout, while more than 40% indicate that they intend to leave the profession. If the patient-to-nurse ratio is legally set at three patients per intensive care nurse, this is not achieved in practice. Three-quarters of nurses reported that they were unable to complete all the necessary care during their last work break and, in more than half of the cases, they performed tasks such as answering the phone, ordering medication or serving and ridding patients of meals. It is once again a very serious warning signal and we must pay attention to this truly dramatic development. The KCE report indicates that the situation was already problematic before the covid crisis, but the crisis only worsened the problems. The White Blouse Fund is just the beginning. Today we have to move to a higher speed. That's what the KCE says. The White Blouse Fund has had a positive effect but it is far from sufficient. The KCE therefore calls for a general plan to upgrade staff, including better recognition, adequate remuneration, promotion of training and staffing in line with international standards. The problem of standards is very important. There is a legal criterion that imposes a mandatory ratio, but it is not a reality on the ground. Staff therefore ask that this work be actually done. Here are the conclusions you draw from this study, Minister. Do you agree that the White Blouse Fund is not enough and that a long-term general plan is needed for recognition of the profession? Have you been working with the unions and the field since then? What measures do you take for all staff? Of course, we can go back to the discussion we had earlier on the €2,500 premiums, which are certainly not enough to address the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u27	Minister, when nurses quit their jobs, remuneration is just one of the causative factors. That there is more going on is clearly demonstrated by the KCE report. One of the most striking things that can be read in it is that a lot of delegable tasks are carried out by highly qualified nurses, which means that they have to postpone important care assignments. I think a nurse should be able to concentrate on his or her core tasks. That is a principle that should always apply, but certainly in an environment of intensive care and especially in times of a health crisis. There also appear to be differences between the Länder, particularly for the perceived quality of care and job satisfaction. My fellow Members have already asked you what conclusions you draw from this study. How will you ensure that the job content for nurses in ICU and beyond remains attractive? What is the current state of play with regard to the deployment of the care ladder at federal level? I have asked you a question about this before. How are these negotiations progressing? As far as remuneration is concerned, we have just talked about the health supplement for nurses with specialist training. We were not in favour of premiums in the past, but rather of a better basic wage. When can they expect that complement? The next question I have just asked you in the context of the budget debate. Do you intend to speed up the reporting of the care staff fund so that the way in which the funds are used can be verified? Is there a projection of possible future shortages of nurses at ICU? Can you explain this? How do you explain the differences between the Länder in terms of job satisfaction and perceived quality of care? When will you re-evaluate the improvements that will be deployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u28	Will you work with the other health ministers within an IMC on a policy on safe nurse bestaffining, taking into account the specific recommendations in the KCE report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u29	Do other Members wish to take the floor in this topical and urgent debate? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u30	Colleagues, I will reply relatively briefly on a very important report, for the sake of time but also because we have already dealt with aspects of this in other debates today. The report of the Knowledge Centre is very important. It contains a number of very critical observations. What do I learn from that? Firstly, it is indeed a very difficult situation. Secondly, the measures we have taken are important but will not suffice. Thirdly, we need to think very carefully about these measures. What is needed are interventions in the field of work organisation......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All this was well mapped out by the Knowledge Centre. Let me just outline how I see it. We must now finish the existing agenda and then start a new agenda. The existing agenda means, among other things, that we must decide with the social partners what happens to the EUR 100 million still available. That EUR 100 million is another amount under the federal social agreement. We are discussing what needs to be done with this. I believe that this should be used to support all the staff. A number of references have already been made today to the complement for specialist nurses. We must be careful, however, to create the right expectations. If we are talking about EUR 2,500 on the basis of communication that I have previously made on this subject, we should be aware that this is a gross amount for nurses who have a professional title with a special professional competence and who work full-time. The budget we are providing does not allow that full premium to be provided by 2022. We can provide a stepping stone to 2023 by 2022. That must be clear in order not to create false expectations. This 2,500 euro gross is something for 2023 who works full-time and meets a number of criteria, such as specialisation and having a special professional title. I think that is an important measure if we take it. I hope that in the next two weeks I will be able to put them on the table within the government in a precise proposal, but I do not want to anticipate that. If that's what happened, we need to start a new agenda. I would indeed like to invite the social partners before the summer to reflect on how we are going to prepare this new agenda. My idea is to do so in a tripartite working group to discuss the appeal. That conversation has to be federal. However, we must also exchange views at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health on how to make the profession of nurse more attractive, and more broadly the various professions we need in health care. This is a very broad issue for me. New is the combination of exhaustion by covid - a very real exhaustion - and a generalised shortage in the labour market that is felt in all kinds of sectors. We have to deal with this together. My idea is to complete and complete the agenda that was linked to the great social agreement of 2020. We must put the finishing touches to that. Then we have to start a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u31	Minister, this is not the first time that I have put pressure on you with regard to caregivers and in particular nurses. Indeed, when it comes to health policy, if there is a case that needs to be put into practice urgently, it is the one that relates to a plan for the attractiveness of the nursing profession throughout the professional career. Without that, we go into the wall! A lot of beds are closed. There are many vacancies for nurses. This has a rather catastrophic impact on public health. There is an evolution in your speech since a few months ago you felt that there was already the White Blouse Fund, that there was a social agreement, that it had cost a lot of money and that you would not go any further. You now clearly recognize that the measures taken are insufficient. Good! Let us now try to move forward in a positive and constructive way. I hear there is a new agenda, meetings are scheduled. I heard that a working group involving nurses had finalized its work in March 2022. It's now May. Let us not revive 50,000 discussion structures but concretize. Indeed, the impact of the decisions that will be made will not be felt in two days since it will take some time to recruit, motivate and maintain nurses at work. This is a major public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u32	Minister, I am pleased that you recognize that what is on the table today is largely insufficient. A real appeal plan is needed for nurses who have left health care to return. The White Blouse Fund must therefore be expanded, but also provide for weekend bonuses and for irregular benefits. There is a need to ensure that management standards are met. There is also a need for a higher salary increase than has been granted so far. On the other hand, Minister, we must stop repressive measures such as the compulsory vaccination of caregivers against the covid, which is still there as a sword of Damocles and which, for many, is considered a form of contempt on your part for them. It is important that you reflect on this issue, in view of the situation in which we find ourselves. In any case, a part of the health care staff will be on the street on June 2, at the call of several unions, to demand more respect, better working conditions and better pay. I hope you really listen to them. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I'll be with them that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u33	Minister, remuneration is of course important, but there are other issues. A key task debate and the debate on effective care are equally important for nurses. I am thinking of the expected care ladder. Just as my French colleagues often look at France for inspiration, I regularly look at the Netherlands. There, for example, they organise so-called scraping sessions under the motto 'disorder the care'. There is a systematic search for ways of reducing administrative tasks for nurses. I would also like to give an example of those international accreditation mechanisms that are currently being applied to healthcare. We have to ask ourselves how much this improves quality and how much red tape this creates. The removal of unnecessary actions also ensures that only evidence-based measures are carried out by nurses. That is a good Dutch example that we can use as inspiration. They call that "leave it better" there. Minister, I would ask you not only to look at the remuneration, but also at the job content.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. Even if I remain on my hunger, there is something positive to remember: your awareness that the measures you have taken so far were not sufficient to respond to the dramatic situation in which these nurses are now in. You make us a promise, make sure that this report from the KCE is the electroshock that allows us to have this famous plan of upgrading the nursing profession. We've heard about it for a long time, but we never see it. You are announcing a new agenda and a new consultation, but we are wondering what added value it will bring as there was already a working group supposed to be working on this issue. If there is a new consultation, I invite you to include, in addition to the social partners, the various professional organisations which had not had the opportunity to be included in your working group. There is nothing today on the recognition of the tenability of the occupation for access to the pension, there is nothing on the revision of the standards of management, there is nothing on the salary revalorisation. I hope that, rather than listing what would be important, these measures will be put in place. It is essential to ensure the good health of these nurses because they are seen to be cracking and endangering the patients they are in charge of. It's a real public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is indeed a need for a broader debate in the coming period. It is important for me to be able to have that debate here in committee. There are also a lot of exercises going on. Nevertheless, I hear a number of Members here saying that nothing would have happened yet. The current government has invested EUR 1 billion and put EUR 600 million into a social agreement that mainly concerned better working conditions, additional support, training and more opportunities to combine leisure time and job. The government has also invested EUR 400 million in the Health Care Staff Fund and in additional hands. Is that enough? We are aware that more will be needed. Certainly the crisis is making the situation more and more pragmatous. I also have to say in the hospital in which I am active that quality is very much related to a good understanding of services. Where there is a fall-out, it is immediately reinforced by burn-outs. There is also a labour market shortage. At the same time, we are also faced with an ageing population, which means, for example, that many of us in the region are retiring and shortages are being exacerbated. At the VDAB in Kortrijk last week I was informed that there are ten vacancies in the region for a nurse or primary nurse looking for a job. This has never been the case for a professional category. The problem is also very broad and concerns not only specialist nurses, but also primary nurses. We clearly need all hands. I therefore hope that we can have a broad debate on, among other things, good training and quality traps in the interests of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a marked increase in frenectomy, mainly since 2019, since the number of cases in children under two years of age increased by 160% between 2018 and 2019 and by just under 90% between 2019 and 2020, where there were 1,440 new cases. The number of cases over the past four years has increased sevenfold. If we analyze the increase in the total number of cases compared to the specialty of the provider performing the intervention, we can see that between 2019 and 2020, dentists with an orthodontic qualification plus dentist trainees performed an additional 1,255 procedures. For all other specialties, the trend has been to decrease or stabilize, with the exception of general surgery, a specialty that counts 49 new cases. As this development is significant, I asked for a more in-depth analysis of it. I do not have it now, even though the question has already been tabled some time ago. I am, of course, prepared to provide additional information in this regard. If some parliamentarians wish to ask questions on the same subject, it is preferable that they first inquire as to whether the results of this analysis are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u37	Minister, thank you for your rather concise answer. You first tell us that the number of frenectomies has actually increased, whereas in principle this operation is reserved for very specific cases, especially when the respective brake causes feeding difficulties. These operations are very painful and can be extremely traumatic for the operated child. You have told us about the types of professionals who can perform these operations. They are essentially orthodontists. But what would be more interesting is to know why. What are the reasons for them? You are telling us that an analysis has been requested, but it would have been interesting to know when you requested this analysis and from whom. It is not ultimately up to us to come back to you every month to have the answers to those questions that still seem fundamental to me. I would therefore like to encourage you to take note of the recommendations made to you by the ONE, especially with regard to multidisciplinary consultations, so that the professionals concerned – paediatricians, osteopaths and lactation consultants – can come across their eyes in order to determine whether this operation is justified. The aim is to prevent this decision, which is so important for children's health, from being taken without consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u38	Minister, my colleague has already painted the picture well. The circumstances governing such an operation should be kept vigilant, since the interests of the child must take precedence. Indeed, it is not necessarily justified to resort to this practice. To this end, training must be numerous and follow a multidisciplinary path. We must ensure that this intervention is limited to the cases that justify it. This is not a comfort operation, because it can have very serious consequences for the child, especially in the form of scars, but also communication problems. In addition, it has a financial cost. Nor is it a matter of making parents bear it. One must also think of the emotional plane, to the extent that they may feel anxiety. Minister, I sincerely count on you for results. I therefore hope that you will adopt a policy that will be brought to the attention of those who will be mandated to use this practice. In this way, parents will be able to make an informed decision, always in the interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u39	Minister, we do not often see each other in this committee, unless it is about the institutional or West Flanders, which is the case today. The mughelikopter returns to the committee every six months. Last time, your answer was clear: you were open to some kind of helicopter help. You also saw the potential for rapid intervention and for guaranteeing transport between hospitals, but further research was needed. What's the progress on this investigation? What are the conclusions of your administration? I always want to open the debate a little bit more. We are talking about the mugheli, but also the police and the Defense Department are asking for new helicopters. For the rescue helicopters at the sea of Defense is, by the way, budgeted, we read in the media. It is being examined whether there is any possibility of a joint operation in the context of the renewal of helicopters, so that both the police and the Defense Department and your services can prepare helicopters together. The momentum seems to be there at the moment, hence a demand for a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u40	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the answer you gave me last year in this committee. You said at that time that you would await the scientific study that would further objectify the use of the HEMS medical helicopters in urgent medical care on the basis of an academic approach and on the basis of real intervention data. You would also look at the service level agreement, the best implant of the mosquito and a comparison between a mugheli and a vehicle. On the basis of these results, you would go further. The delivery of this would take place in the autumn of 2021 and you expected to have a discussion within the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance in the spring of 2022. What is the current state of affairs? From the province I have heard that this weekend a new device will be put into operation, thanks to funding of municipalities, the province and many charities. The AZ Sint-Jan also continues to provide the bestaffing. We are in favour of a mughelikopter, but whatever is decided, it is important to clarify the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u41	Madam President, Mr Loones has just stressed the importance of thinking about efficiency. Of course, the same applies here. We need to examine this question from the point of view of efficient use of resources. For that we do need thorough advice. The National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, supported by the results of an analysis carried out by Ghent University, delivered a new opinion on the employability of mosquito helicopters. That advice was threefold. Firstly, the use of a HEMS or helicopter emergency medical service can be an added value if used effectively. Secondly, the conditions for the effective use of an HEMS have not yet been met in the context of the Belgian hospital landscape and the networks. Thirdly, today there are geographical areas in the Belgian territory where the treatment-free interval within urgent medical care is still too large. The National Council considers that these gaps are better addressed by cheaper resources than by rolling out the more expensive HEMS resources in these areas. That opinion was clear, but it was not yet sufficiently detailed and operational. I therefore asked the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance to continue its work in cooperation with the administration and to work out the following. Firstly, regions need to be identified where there are gaps in urgent medical assistance today. Secondly, it should be possible to consider how additional resources such as ambulances, PITs and mosquitoes can be activated in these areas. Thirdly, clear and strict criteria for the use of HEMS within urgent medical care should be developed. Fourthly, a financing model for the use of HEMS should be developed within these deployment criteria. It is important that the patient should be able to enjoy the flat-rate invoice which can be used within the emergency medical assistance. I therefore asked the Council to draw up a proposal by the end of October 2022. So we have to be patient for a few months. A thorough, and therefore even more detailed, advice is really useful, even necessary. I am working on a structural approach, but I cannot guarantee that the structural solution will be one in which the current operational approach will be maintained. With regard to the possibility of developing a joint helicopter platform for the SAR and police helicopters, I am open to investigating that slope, but I think we should be realistic. A police helicopter has completely different characteristics than a search-and-rescue helicopter or a HEMS. Approaching them together may not be the most cost-effective solution. But she's definitely worth investigating.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your interesting answer. I follow the institutional, the West Flemish, as well as the budget. Your answer fits in with that. It is, of course, always useful and necessary for taxpayers' money to be spent in the most efficient way, even when it comes to how we can get the best care from people at the best price. That's the bottom line. The criteria you propose also seem logical to me. It certainly seems interesting in that respect. You mentioned an investigation into cooperation with other departments. In this respect, too, I welcome your words. I would like to call on you to increase your ambition and also to be a pioneer of that research, because that is where the net is failing. There is not a single minister who draws the file to investigate it effectively. Everyone's looking at each other. That's not a reproach. In the past, it was. What we need is someone who is effective in getting things on the table. Your timing seems interesting. By the end of October, that's about six months away. That is the rhythm to which questions are asked about the MUG helicopter. That seems to me to be completely in line with the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u43	Minister, there is indeed a need for clarity. Mr Loones and I can ask a question every six months, but the dossier is accompanied by a lot of emotions in the field, including in East Flanders. I always argue for a ratio. Of course efficiency is important. The criteria seem to me to be correct. The reality is that there are now about 700 interventions a year. Lives are being saved. The question is how to do that, should the helicopter drop. Surely such an instrument cannot continue to sponsor through the local authorities, the province and, above all, donations? It is also important to draw up the inventory of the blind spots, of which there is certainly one in the center of West Flanders. There are also many questions, not only in our province, about the MUG. Can the MUG be replaced by PITs, which are more often a more efficient and efficient instrument? It's not always emotionally felt like that, but rationally it is. I'm glad you want to take a closer look at that. It's necessary to look at the bigger picture. I hope that there will finally be a definitive answer in October. Then the people will know where they stand. Then the hospital Saint-Jan knows where it is going and how to transport the patients in a quality way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u44	Minister, in your policy paper on budgetary work, you stated that you want to make a major shift in RIZIV, namely a budget in function of health objectives, rather than a distribution of the budget through separate objectives, based on demands from certain actors. That is why you want to work on a multi-annual budget, integrating health care objectives into budget work and making certain choices. Your goal is to book efficiency gains and use the resources correctly and better. Work started on 1 March 2021 to define and define those objectives and to develop initiatives and proposals on them. On 14 July 2021, a first interim report was issued which included five priority health objectives and 17 initiatives. In December 2021 the final report had to be delivered. Was the final report drawn up by December 20th? Can you describe this report? What are the main conclusions? What's the result? If the report is not yet available, would I like to know when it will be published? Can you give an overview of the objectives that you already want to budget this year? Is there a link to your hospital reform project? Do you also have certain health objectives around accessibility of care in integrated care?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u45	The intermediate report of July 2021 has indeed been finalised. There are actually two reports, Mrs Merckx. The report of the Quintuple 1 working group. This is a working group of members of the Insurance Committee and the general board of the RIZIV. This working group has converted an intermediate report into a final report. Subsequently, a report of the Scientific Committee led by Erik Schokkaert, set up during the work of the budget path. That Scientific Committee was supposed to give an independent view of future orientations for the budgetary path from an expert point of view. The two reports were presented on 7 February at a joint session of the General Council and the Insurance Committee. They were published on the website of the RIZIV. I hope you find them easier than on Sciensano's website. They're both on the RIZIV website. You might want to look for kick-off, extended, insurance committee. The two reports contain joint analyses and proposals for solutions. They're both leaving the Quintuple 1 target. They highlight the need to work with cross-cutting healthcare and healthcare objectives and the need to involve scientific expertise in the process. In this sense, the two reports are very similar to what the societal challenges are, which is also the priority health care objectives that need to be put forward. They reiterate what was said in the interim report, namely three main objectives: mental health, accessibility and integrated care. The two reports also state that we need to take into account a time dimension: we really need to move from a one-year perspective to a long-term perspective. Furthermore, a transversal dimension: we need to focus on cooperation between healthcare professionals with a view to the patient. Another global dimension: we need to look at health in the broad sense. The two reports also point to the need for an active body working on and advising on the federal health objectives. They also contain a lot of proposals on the budget itself. On that basis, I would like to propose a plan of action that answers the question of how we anchor health objectives and health objectives in our policies. That answer is now being prepared. I am discussing this in the government and I would like to refer it again to the actors in the care sector. As part of the 2022 budget, we have, of course, immediately taken a number of initiatives, in fact, pending a full anchoring in terms of procedures of the views of the reports on the concrete objectives for 2022. This concerns a new budget line of health objectives and appropriate care in order to establish the resources for actions under health care objectives or appropriate care. We have decided to allocate a budgetary margin of EUR 123.6 million entirely to this. A total of 15 projects have been brought together around four main lines: secondary and tertiary prevention, including through care pathways, care paths and integrated care, improving the quality of care, appropriate care and financial accessibility. The secondary and tertiary prevention projects were defined as purely transversal in the sense that they are projects where implementation requires the involvement of multiple groups of caregivers. Following approval of a draft note by the Insurance Committee, multidisciplinary working groups and an umbrella steering committee were set up within the RIZIV for these projects. The working groups have all been started. The whole of the projects selected for 2022 provides a clear impetus for increasing the accessibility of care and promoting transversal care. This will also serve as a guide for setting the health care objectives in the context of budgetisation for 2023. We must also ensure coherence between the various yards, for example between this project and the hospital reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u46	May I ask you to conclude, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u47	I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u48	I was a little mild because I assumed that you also had an answer to Mr Warmoes' question. That is why you were given four minutes' speaking time. It's five now, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u49	Minister, I now know where to find the reports and will read them. For the rest, you did not address the specific questions at all. Of course, I want concrete answers on what exactly is going to happen. But we'll read that report and we'll definitely get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u50	Madam President, Minister, castration of piglets to prevent swine fever in pigmeat is a sensitive issue in terms of animal welfare. The debate, which has a broader European dimension, has been dragging on for a long time, but developments in a number of other EU Member States, including Denmark, the Netherlands and the German market, which is particularly important for our pig farmers, can now move forward in this dossier. However, the castration process also involves a cost element. Since the pig sector is in a serious crisis, this dimension is more important than ever. The good news is that pig farmers should no longer be able to use veterinarians, but to carry out castration themselves. Pig farmers will need the necessary training to be able to carry out this operation with knowledge and with maximum respect for animal welfare. However, a medicine is also required, in particular Tri-Solfen. This narcotic ointment has been recognised in Australia and New Zealand for a long time and has become a widely used substance. However, the FAGG still has to recognise the plea in our case. Recognition is still pending, but the product is urgently needed. Also, the newly established interbranch organisation PORK.be has decided to include the stunned castration as necessary in the unified ledger. Mr Minister, have you had contact with PORK.be about the recognition of Tri-Solfen? Why is the recognition of this product awaiting us? By when do you expect to be able to implement that recognition? Will you also contact your fellow Minister Clarinval for a regulation on the right of use of pig farmers for the implementation of topical anaesthetics?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u51	Mr de Caluwe, the application for marketing authorisation for the Tri-Solfen medicinal product was submitted on 14 August 2020 through the decentralised procedure, which means that a marketing authorisation is applied for at the same time in several Member States of the Union. During the procedure, the relevant European authorities stated that the production and controls of the proposed medicinal product had to be adapted to meet the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. The applicant clarified that those adjustments were not possible in the short term, on which the application was withdrawn and the procedure stopped. The company may submit a new application for authorisation through the decentralised procedure or directly to the EEA through the centralised procedure. As regards the consultation with PORK.be, I can inform you that my cabinet has been contacted very recently. A consultation with all interested parties has been launched. It has also been pointed out that the anaesthetic can also take place by means of two products under injectable form which are also on the market in our country. By when do I expect recognition? Since there is currently no application for marketing authorisation, I cannot set a deadline. Shall I contact David Clarinval? Joint consultations have been initiated at the level of the staff and with the sector, in particular with regard to whether or not the injectable products may be administered by livestock farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I did indeed put a similar question to Minister Clarinval. I'm glad to hear you guys are discussing this. He had already pointed out to me that the manufacturer withdrew the file. You outlined the story behind it. I hope that a solution will be found to allow pig farmers to carry out castration themselves in the long term. I think it is important, in the context of animal welfare, that this is done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u53	Minister, General Cell Drug Use formulates policy proposals and evaluates the policies implemented to prevent drug use and improve assistance and treatment for drug users and control of production and trafficking in psychotropic substances. In 2019, the ACD published the report Realisations 2014-2019 and the recommendations for the next legislature. That report was very broad, about the use of psychopharmaceuticals, of certain illegal drugs, alcohol and tobacco consumption. Recently, non-profit organisations Smart on Drugs published a memorandum on innovative incentives for drug policy. Wherever possible, this organisation wants to move away from a purely criminal policy for users to a policy that is more concerned with health and well-being. The organisation advocates evaluating the effectiveness of the policy and working not only on indicators such as the number of drug seizures, convictions and arrests, but rather on a global, smart, human approach in an ambitious and just drug policy. Congruentities exist between the recent recommendations of the General Cell on Drug Use and the Memorandum. Bringing the elements together in the implementation of the policy can certainly be interesting, both in terms of prevention, treatment and guidance. In view of the difficult period we have come to, with the isolation during the coronapandemic, what progress has been made with the implementation of the recommendations? Are you aware of the recommendations of Smart on Drugs? I'm assuming so. Is this where a liaison is made? How are the recommendations taken into account in the implementation of drug policy? Any contact with that non-profit? When was the last time drug policy was a subject at the Inter-Ministerial Conference? There's gonna be some space now, but maybe not for long, given the new virus. What measures have been taken to update drug policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u54	In July last year, the Thematic Meeting on Drugs of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health adopted the priorities for the years 2021-2024, largely based on the recommendations of the General Cell Drugs Policy. More specifically, the following policy priorities from the recommendations of the General Cell Drugs Policy, which dates from 2019, were maintained for this legislature. Firstly, the design and implementation of an inter-federal policy on harmful alcohol consumption was maintained, secondly, the preparation and implementation of an inter-federal tobacco policy with a view to a tobacco-free generation, thirdly, the drawing up of an inter-federal policy plan on gambling, fourthly, the preparation of a discussion on a structural anchoring of user spaces, fifthly, an enhanced exchange of information and synergies in the field of psychopharmaceutical policy, sixth data collection and analysis, in particular the preparation of a reform of the Belgian Reitox focal point system, seventhly, the preservation of the Federal Research Programme Drugs and a strengthening of the involvement of the Länder. The IMC's Thematic Meeting of Drugs then identified a number of additional priorities that did not appear as such in the recommendation of the General Cell Drugs Policy in 2019, in particular the analysis and discussion on the possible gaps, bottlenecks and questions for amending the 1921 Drugs Act, which could thus integrate elements of Smart on Drugs. The working group is drawn by the Länder. The second additional priority for the Thematic Meeting Drugs is the implementation of the recommendations from the evaluation of Belgian drug policy by a Belspo study delivered in 2021. The cooperation of the General Cell Drugs Policy with civil society, which was also a recommendation from the 2019 report, was also made here as a recommendation. By this means, the theme will be taken up during this legislature. Civil society is consulted on an ad hoc basis, on a case-by-case basis, depending on the stage at which the debates are held at the level of the working groups and the working cells. The latest Thematic Meeting on Drugs of the Inter-Ministerial Conference came together on 23 March. The interfederal approach to combating gambling addiction was adopted. A number of strategic decisions for an inter-federal alcohol and tobacco policy were also taken. Finally, the mandate was given to review the Reitox focalpoint system and to develop a plan of action for the operationalisation of the recommendations resulting from the research funded by Belspo. That's the EVDRUG investigation. You will find all this on the website of the Thematic Meeting Drugs, as a context for the policies in which elements of Smart on Drugs can be integrated, but always based on scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said that there are also those additional priorities that are convergent with Smart on Drugs. It is true that a somewhat different approach is needed than the classic one, because we can still make profits when it comes to preventing people from getting into trouble through gambling or other drugs and pleasure products.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u56	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u57	Mrs Gijbels, the central index is followed for the salary of care staff in hospitals financed by the BFM. The budget of financial resources or BFM is therefore adjusted accordingly. The preliminary additional impact of the rapidly rising index on BFM of 1 July 2022 is estimated at EUR 300 million. In addition, we have decided to invest 207 million extra in the health insurance budget. In concrete terms, this amounts to an increase of 2% in healthcare providers' tariffs during the period 1 June 2022 to 31 December 2022. Grosso mode is the 207 million that we are talking about. From 1 January 2023, the rates will be calculated taking into account the index evolution between June 2021 and June 2022. This means that the rates of doctors working in hospitals can also be increased for the period in question, in particular by 2%. The social Maribel system is a dotation system. The figures shall be calculated on the basis of the number of straight workers in the sectors concerned in year n-2. Each year, the social Maribel funds examine whether the amount allocated to them for the year in question leaves room for the creation of additional employment, which is the main objective of the social Maribel, and whether the financial contributions to employers for the additional employment may be increased. Since 2019, this objective has been added to the regulation in an effort to finance the total wage cost of the employees concerned. However, until now, without prejudice to the change mentioned above, the full salary cost of the Maribel employees concerned is not fully covered by the Maribel funds. There is therefore another part which is borne by the employer. This may also increase as a result of wage indexation. The Maribel funds are not indexed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u58	Thank you, Minister. I understand that there is not a direct view of the impact, in particular that there is less input from payments. Indeed, it is estimated that there would be an indexation of 8% for wages, but the rates of care providers will not follow this trend. In my view, this will create a problem in that part of hospital funding that is covered by the payments. I understand that it is very difficult to assess its impact, because it is about something very untransparent. We have far too little insight into the proportion of payments made in the various hospitals. Furthermore, the level of pay supplements in the different hospitals is also very different. The hospitals where the highest fee supplements are requested are often the hospitals that have the most financial difficulties. I suggest that this be properly guarded. I am not saying that it is necessary to adapt, but I do believe that this should lead to improvements for the hospitals that are in difficulty and which are likely to be even more difficult due to the fall in payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u59	Mr Minister, only a basic nomenclature will be introduced for the dental hygienists, whom we have mentioned several times before. We can certainly welcome that. However, it remains important that dental hygienists are correctly used, so that their added value for general oral health becomes clear. As I understand it, a nomenclature for tartar removal will initially be used. However, the dental hygienist has much more and perhaps even more important tasks, such as nutrition education and oral hygiene instructions. The Health and Health Agency was asked to clarify what is covered by prevention. After all, that line is thin. We want a balanced coordination between prevention and curation for oral care, with a view to extending the Flemish health objective Healthier Life. This requires agreements between the Flemish and federal levels. Minister, what agreements have been reached with the Flemish level on oral care, in the light of the expansion of the Flemish health objective Healthier Life? How are the number and distribution of dental hygienists monitored? Is there a land register? In what way will that be filled out? Is the number of hours worked per week taken into account? I have an additional question, if you have the data on hand. When will they have that nomenclature and their RIZIV number?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u60	Mrs Gijbels, on the first question, I would like to reply that RIZIV is currently working on a scheme for the reimbursement by health insurance of certain benefits provided by dental hygienists, in accordance with the government agreement and as agreed in the National Agreement on Dental Medical Funds 2022-2023 and, of course, within the powers of dental hygienists, as laid down in the current regulations. The system can, of course, be adapted to take account of new developments in these powers. As far as we know, no concrete agreements have yet been reached with the Länder on this matter. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that the number of dental hygienists authorised to practise the profession is included each year in the annual statistics on health professionals in Belgium, which we call the register. In 2021, 97 dental hygienists were allowed to perform their duties, mainly in the Flemish Community. In the French Community, the first graduates will be on the Belgian labour market from this year on. The figures are available according to the official residence, age, sex, nationality and country of origin of the basic diploma. At present there is no overview of the real activity of the dental hygienists who are allowed to practise their profession in Belgium. Nevertheless, the Planning Committee-Medical offer included the dental hygienists in the projection model with the alternative scenarios developed for general dentists. It is assumed that part of the general dentists' activity will be entrusted to the dental hygienists, allowing them to focus on more complex tasks. Once we have data, we can look back on several years of registration of dental hygienists who are allowed to practice their profession. Then a specific analysis of the workforce of that profession can be carried out according to the multiannual plan of the Planning Committee-Medical offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u61	To be honest, Minister, it remains rather vague. The RIZIV is working on a scheme and there are no concrete agreements with the Länder yet. Flanders is a asking party to make agreements on this. It is also important to do so, because there is an effective preventive hatch. In fact, the care provided by dental hygienists is mainly preventive, especially when it comes to information. I have already asked a question about the role that dental hygienists can play in, for example, the Houses of the Child. There they can really be a low-threshold gateway to oral care, especially for populations who find it more difficult to access the dentist. After all, the dentist's threshold is high. I would also like to insist on the perception of dental hygienists. We can't think of them as diet dentists. They are much more than that, they really have their specific role in health care. You must really involve the professional association of dental hygienists in the various discussions about them. They still do not have a say in the whole debate and in the decision-making process. It is also a pity that there is no overview of the real activity of dental hygienists. This had to be done at the outset. It is also important that we have a correct view of this when planning the required range of dentists. So I'm gonna keep finding it all rather vague and I'm sure I'll come back to this. I still did not hear when they would have their RIZIV number and nomenclature. Those people have been abandoned for three years, and that is a great pity. Presumably there is also a Community aspect, due to the fact that there are indeed no dental hygienists in French-speaking Belgium. However, we are not helping public health in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u62	Minister, it was recently heard on the radio that Belgium would have agreed to the request to receive some sixty Ukrainian war victims. It would involve ten paralyzed patients and about 50 patients who suffered wounds during the war. On April 20, one patient was admitted to the hospital in Liège. Belgium would have made available an initial capacity of 150 beds to accommodate Ukrainian refugees. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee monitors the situation in hospitals. What is the key for the reception of Ukrainian refugees in hospitals? Is there a distinction between types of beds? Which general and university hospitals are involved? What is the actual occupation of the hospital beds? Can you give an overview of this per province? I asked a question about this earlier. Then you indicated that you would still speak with the Military Hospital Queen Astrid. What's the result of that conversation? Are extra beds provided there, apart from the 25 beds for patients with burns? What about the occupation of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid by the Brugmann Hospital? As you know, two floors of the Military Hospital Queen Astrid are used by the Brugmann Hospital. Have any agreements been made to free capacity for war victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u63	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, Mr Creyelman, you both asked the very specific question where these patients will end up. I can't say much about that. I would indeed prefer to produce detailed information in writing. Regarding the cancer patients, it concerns young patients, aged 2 to 17 years, who suffer from blood cancer, such as leukaemia, or solid tumors, such as brain tumors. They are collected in centres specializing in pediatric oncology, spread over Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. For privacy reasons, we do not want these hospitals to be questioned by journalists, we do not release hospitals of destination. So far, I have not communicated any data on this matter. Mr Creyelman, you asked what capacity we offer. Belgium has committed itself within the European support mechanism to providing 150 beds in our hospitals for the care of the sick and injured. In addition, we have provided 60 places for rehabilitation. We do not yet use much of that. Today we have 8 of these beds effectively in use. My services are preparing another evacuation of five patients. In the context of rehabilitation sites, a first transfer of 27 rehabilitation patients is currently under discussion. Mr Creyelman, you asked us how we should assess this further. I find that very difficult to say, because it depends on the intensity and duration of the war, on which we have no idea, the extent to which the care system in Ukraine will have suffered during the war, we do not yet know. We hope, of course, that the number of victims will remain low. Every victim is one too many. The European mechanism in which Belgium registered received a total of 564 requests for medical evacuation on 19 May. 77 questions were withdrawn after the submission because the patient or family did not wish to evacuate to a European country or because the medical condition of the patient did not allow the evacuation or was no longer necessary. The conclusion is that 347 patients have already been spread across Europe and 140 applications are still pending. Transport costs, i.e. from a neighbouring country from Ukraine to Belgium, are 75% borne by Europe and 25% by Belgium. When patients arrive here and when they are registered under a specific statute and are members of a sickness fund, they are covered as provided by Belgian health insurance. Maybe I can give you some details, even though that has been mentioned in the news. Among the 60 seriously injured Ukrainians who go into specialized rehabilitation, there are 10 with spinal cord jury, of which 4 with high tetraplegia and 6 with low tetraplegia, and 50 patients who need locomotor and neurological rehabilitation. Mrs Gijbels, I cannot anticipate exactly how they will be distributed. The distribution will take place in close cooperation with an expert committee from the professional and scientific association of rehabilitation doctors, coordinated by the Hospital and Transport Surge Capacity Committee. It is not intended that the patients from Ukraine should be admitted to the Military Hospital for rehabilitation. Well, that's the conclusion now, isn't it? There are several specialised rehabilitation centers, including for patients with spinal cord injury. As soon as this is possible, rehabilitation patients are also treated and monitored in an outpatient manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u65	However, Minister, you know that academic hospitals have asked for victims of war to be dealt with as a matter of priority in the Military Hospital. I still think it's crazy that we can't follow up on that. I also didn't hear what was the result of the conversation with the Military Hospital. Do they still see opportunities for expansion? After all, we are dealing with very specific diseases, which I can imagine would involve infected wounds, which also requires specific rehabilitation. I am therefore asking myself that we in the Military Hospital do not seem to have the capacity to give proper care to such victims. What I still find strange is that the Military Hospital is to that extent occupied by the Brugmann Hospital that there are only 25 beds left to accommodate other people. At the time, there was a great deal of uncertainty about the contracts concluded between the Brugmann Hospital and the Ministry of Defence and the way in which the Military Hospital is reimbursed. I'm gonna work this out, because I think this is a really crazy thing to do. I wonder why we have a military hospital, if that can mean so little in a war situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your specific answers to my specific questions. I am glad to hear that we will be able to deal with a number of victims in addition, if necessary. I hope that this will not be necessary with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-24-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic795x.u67	Mr President, I would like to conclude here. I'm expected to give a short speech at the Galenus Awards. I'm on hot coal. I apologize for the abrupt end.
