ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is obviously important to take account of the feedback from detainees, but it is always difficult to know the reality from this source alone. Having said that, I fully agree with you that a balance must be struck between what people love and what is healthy. A precise idea of the quality of meals should therefore be developed on the basis of objective findings. Before the crisis of the coronavirus broke out, a specialized firm undertook an audit of the restoration in the prisons, which I will transmit to you. Its conclusions will be taken into account in order to progressively improve within the limits of budgetary margins. Secondly, these criteria are well reflected in the Act of 12 January 2005, known as the "Law of Principles". Article 42 is clear: "The inmate's diet must be provided in sufficient quantity, comply with modern standards of hygiene and, where appropriate, be adapted to the requirements of his or her state of health." I can reassure you, dear colleague: in each prison, medical requirements are applied; moreover, a suitable diet is possible for prisoners. For example, low-salt and low-fat meals are served to people with diabetes. A vegetarian menu and a pork-free menu are also available in each establishment. In DBFM-contracted prisons, catering is managed by a partner who is responsible for meeting these standards. With regard to your third question, as already mentioned on 2 February in response to a question from Mrs Zanchetta, many preparatory work has already been carried out during the previous legislature under the direction of Public Health, in collaboration with Justice and the federated entities. Four working groups developed a vision text on health care reform, based on the report of the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise. This text could not be validated under the previous legislature, but it was validated this morning, Mrs Rohonyi, at the interdepartmental conference at 10 a.m. The reform will be carried out gradually on the basis of pilot projects. I repeat, the opening of new prisons must be seen as a propitious point and as a good start. The aim is that the prisons of the future - newly built prisons, detention houses, transitional houses - can function according to the principles of the Vision. I can assure you that the insurability of inmates is also a major priority and an important link in improving health care for inmates. To achieve this, a transition manager was appointed to Justice last August. We are in constant consultation with the Public Health FPS and the federated entities. The diet of inmates and the transfer of the burden of meals are not part of the points discussed. As far as your last question is concerned, the products on the canteen list are not identical in the various prisons, in particular because they are determined by the characteristics of the local prison population and its needs through the consultation body. A balance is always sought between branded and generic products. Prices are negotiated with local suppliers. The additional cost of 7 per cent for certain products is paid to the Inmate Support Fund, which allows inmates without any resources to also purchase products from the local canteen. Certain products, such as health care products and products at taxed selling prices, are not subject to additional charges.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u2	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I hear your willingness to treat this issue of prison feeding as a matter of public health, and I thank you for that, because the penalty for prisoners in prison is deprivation of liberty. They do not have to face additional penalties such as a diet that causes them health problems, overweight or cardiovascular problems. However, we see it today, despite your response, either inmates are affected by inadequate diets or they have to get poorer because they need more food in the canteen. I understand that these additional canteen products are rather products that correspond to a certain brand or a certain desire. However, the returns that come back to me are rather problems that require essential products. I think that the audit that has been carried out will be extremely useful to us as to what is the problem in order to be able to objectiveise the situation, even if I remain on my hunger, that is the case, in relation to this fact. I hope that I will be able to dispose of this written opinion. I'd like to know who did this audit, exactly what it's about. You're talking about a specialized firm. It would be interesting to know who exactly. It can be seen that in France there are important recommendations that have been made, in particular to compensate for the deficiencies in vitamins C and D due to tobacco or the lack of sunshine. I think that these are data which we must be able to make use of also in Belgium. Finally, you tell us that setting up a suitable diet must be done within budget limits. I can quite hear it, except that setting up a diet in prison is not necessarily more expensive. It is more of a political will. I would also like to join you perfectly when you say that the new prisons must be an opportunity in this area. We visited Haren's yard and there was a vegetable garden project on site. I think this is precisely an opportunity to highlight the need to produce locally and therefore at a lower cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u3	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, only two prisoners had to return to prison following the closure of the transitional house. They reinstated a facility they chose. They are still there and enjoy the means of carrying out the punishment necessary for their further reintegration. One is awaiting a visit to the sentencing court for electronic monitoring. The other has not yet made any requests. Of course, if they wish to be placed in a transitional house again, their files will be reviewed taking into account the positive experience of their stay at the transitional house. With regard to your second question, a resumption of some of the staff who have been hired for the old project is well planned. As the revival of the project is not yet effective, no one has yet been contacted with a view to setting up this opportunity. As far as your third question is concerned, a transitional house is not a prison but offers a place in an external structure. It was decided to outsource through grants because the government will not itself manage this small-scale initiative. The duration of the grant orders will be three years, which will allow us to limit situations like the one we have experienced with Enghien. In addition, with the opening of several sites, it will now be possible to propose alternatives if such a case occurs again. With regard to your fourth question, on the basis of the current offers, four dossiers are being finalized and three are being explored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u4	Minister, I thank you for your answers, although they are extremely concise and unsatisfactory in relation to the situation in which this association is located. The association Ceraic was able to take over the torch of the operation of the transitional house of Enghien. This is a tremendous relief for all the reintegration projects that were underway there. But this association is waiting for this reopening to take place in good conditions. I hear that only two prisoners have had to return to prison, but I would have wanted to know more for themselves than for others, since this closure took place almost two months ago. The association is ready and needs information. I want you to be able to consult with her, so that she can be done in the best possible conditions, quickly. I also invite you to ensure that the cracking observed for the Enghien transition house does not happen again for the other transitional houses. We know how much you care about this project, and I fully support you. However, such projects, whether they be present or future houses, should not be put in difficulty because the transition would not have been ensured with new operators when they had to abandon the operation of the same houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u5	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, no further studies on staff shortage and absenteeism are planned. However, this does not mean that we are not taking initiatives to improve the well-being of our staff. For this, we rely on the results of the psycho-social risk analysis carried out in 2019, so just two, three years ago. The results of this survey and the actions to be taken were discussed in detail in the working groups in which staff and unions are represented. By the end of 2021, a few months ago, several welfare projects were launched. For example, a pilot project on mental disengagement was launched in three prisons (Antwerp, Brussels and Tournai). As part of this project, staff are supported by the method of intervision to disengage from work outside working hours. Intervision is a method by which staff can learn from the experience of others. In addition, the possibility of providing psychological support in response to traumatic events or events is being explored. As regards your second question, the Court of Auditors points out the risks associated with the recruitment of staff under the first Rosetta employment agreement, since these contracts are in principle intended for young people under 26 years of age and are temporary contracts. In collaboration with the public service, we are working to speed up recruitment procedures for both statutory and contractual recruitment. For example, a regulation is being developed that will allow for the continuous recruitment of both statutory and contractual staff for critical and vacant posts in large numbers. The selection procedure will be adapted so that it is no longer necessary to wait until all candidates have been seen in order to establish a ranking and contact the winners. Through intermediate rankings, selection procedures will be open and continuous. They will also allow the successful candidates to be offered posts more quickly. This way of recruiting greatly accelerates the process. In addition, we are also preparing regulations that will allow contractual engagement for the functions available in prisons. It is not our intention to contractualize the posts, but it remains that contractual recruitment is always faster than that of the statutory staff. By focusing on both contractual and statutory recruitment, we can respond much more flexibly to needs. We also invest in better management of staff with mandatory basic training and tests in which employees must demonstrate that they have acquired the skills taught. In order to answer your third question, there are currently 50 days of training in one year at the training centres for new prison monitors. Due to the coronavirus and the health measures imposed, several modules could not be organized in the last two years, resulting in a certain backlog in the field. However, these techniques could be learned and practiced on the ground itself. On their entry into service, employees under the first job agreement receive a shorter training course of eight days, given by the training centres. They are mostly trained in the field. This training programme will be redesigned and adapted to the new functions of detention attendants and security assistants. In the future, the basic training will consist of two journeys, namely a common four-month journey followed by a specific two-month training journey. At the end of each game, a test will be required to verify whether the necessary skills have been acquired. In response to your fourth question, it is true that some officers have not yet been able to participate in basic training due to the lack of staff. This does not mean, however, that no training is provided for these people. New employees receive on-the-job training and receive close support and follow-up in the performance of their duties. In the coming months, we will make every effort to remedy the shortage of staff, so that there is again more room for staff to participate in the training. In order to solve the shortage of staff, a great deal of effort will be made this year to recruit additional staff, not least through a large national campaign but also through local initiatives in the communes where the new prisons will be built or are in the final stages of construction. This is a serious challenge, because we are facing a major labour shortage in the labour market. The duration of the basic training is increased to six months. In addition, as part of the new functions of security assistants and detention attendants, investments are being made in a new training programme, both in terms of content and methods. After a joint four-month training programme, they will each follow a two-month programme. The training provides for an alternation between the learning modules in the training and field learning centre. The content of the training is adapted to the skills that employees must develop in order to perform their duties properly. They will therefore be sufficiently prepared. All new employees will start their training as soon as they are recruited. In so far as, in the future, examinations will also be linked to training, training provision and participation will be guaranteed. To answer your last question, the period covered by the evaluation will be extended. Preparations for this extension have begun. Negotiations will continue in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is difficult to replicate because a great deal of information has been given. There is, in any case, some uncertainty as to the timing of the many measures you have announced. What measures will be taken with regard to the former prisons? Which ones will concern the news? It is very difficult to see clearly, especially since no studies have been carried out to objectiveize the shortage of staff or absenteeism when there is a real problem in this area. It is also particularly complicated to develop an effective strategy without having a study to target the needs where they are needed for initial and continuing training, but also to avoid absenteeism by working on the causes of absenteeism. I am thinking in particular of being understaffed, which leads to a feeling of insecurity and, finally, a vicious circle. I hear that measures are being put in place to upgrade the profession, which is obviously positive. There are projects related to well-being and psychological support. But you say these questions are under consideration. I would therefore like to know when these measures will be implemented on the ground. As far as statutory jobs are concerned, you still favour contractual recruitment, despite the criticisms made by the Court of Auditors. I understand that a new regulation is under way, as is a new selection procedure to speed up recruitment. I am concerned about whether these procedures will ensure that those who will be recruited will have the necessary skills to ensure proper follow-up of detainees, which would have been guaranteed under a Selor procedure. Finally, I did not get an answer to the question of recruitment open to non-Belgians, whereas this option would have allowed us, too, to overcome this problem of shortage of staff in our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the reality of access to identity cards is common to all prisons. In all correctional institutions, identity cards are available at the Registry. The inmate has access to this card only on leave or prison leave. However, as far as the Covid Safe Ticket is concerned, inmates can apply for a covid certificate via the local medical service or through the local SPS. These services can take the necessary steps to this end by telephone or via eID on Vaccinnet. All prisons are aware of this procedure. Inmates who benefit from the modalities of execution of the sentence or who are released may therefore all benefit from a CST. Pursuant to article 62 of the Corona Act and pursuant to the Royal Decree of 29 March 2021, the suspension of prison leave and leave was valid until 30 June 2021. The aim was to prevent contamination from the free society in prisons through convicted persons who benefit from the modalities of execution of the sentence, who frequently leave and return to prison. In practice, the suspension remained limited to the terms of prison leave and leave granted to convicts and internees. This means that limited detention and detention could continue in order not to jeopardize the reclassification of detainees. This falls within the exception criteria set out in section 62 of the Act. The suspension of these arrangements therefore dates back to the time when very strict containment measures were also in force in the free society. Given the impact of the suspension, the period during which it was in effect was maintained for as short a period as possible. The detainees were also able to recover later on the days to which they were legally entitled but which they could not take. During the suspension period, telephone contacts and video calls were used to the maximum extent with relatives and professional bodies, for example, in the context of admission interviews at accommodation centres or in the context of job offers. This is therefore not a complete cessation of social contacts and the preparation of the reclassification plan. The Director could also make an exception or suspension if it seriously jeopardized the reintegration process of a convicted person. This possibility has been frequently used. For example, between 24 December 2020 and 6 April 2021, 675 leave and 305 prison leave were granted. In conclusion, the suspension period has undoubtedly had an impact on inmates, but less than it appears at first sight, thanks to the number of corrective measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u8	Minister, your answer is to be reassuring even if it contrasts with my feedback from the ground. You're telling us that inmates only have access to the ID card through the registry for permission to leave. This demonstrates that this possibility exists only for prisoners who benefit from it. Therefore, and in order to remedy this problem, the local medical service must be able to be contacted by detainees in order to benefit from a CST, and all prisons must be aware of this procedure. However, this is not the case because some prisons were wondering how detainees could be entitled to the CST and I had returned the question to you. I invite you to ensure that this information is properly disseminated to all prisons and that the CST is available in hard copy, which would be easier for both prisoners and prison administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u9	Mr. Minister, in Wolvertem, a former four-star hotel would be transformed into a detention center for about 50 prisoners. Apart from the wrong perception of receiving prisoners in a four-star hotel, the city council sees many other difficulties. Wolvertem is a rural municipality, with little employment. The building is located right in the center, without sufficient parking and lacks a bus connection or a train station, where the commuter who would be employed could use it. There is hardly any outdoor space to relax. There is a fear of nuisance and the police area of KLM has not given a positive opinion, because risk analysis has not yet been carried out. Mr Vermeersch has already denounced the lack of communication and the mayor says, I quote: "Minister Van Quickenborne wants to push through his plans. During two informal talks with the judiciary, we have always stressed that this would be a cooperation. But according to his administration, the location is ideal because all the facilities are available and people think they can start soon. They promised us in the beginning that they wouldn't let the project go on if we didn't support it, but in the meantime they've already given up on it. If they say it must come, it will come." That's gonna scare me a little bit. Is that about two informal conversations? Have you examined the municipality's objections? Is the real estate we're talking about purchased? Has anything been signed yet? Or will the building be rented? Finally, do you intend to obtain the permission for re-destination of the building.. the site should be colored in otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u10	Mrs Bury, we understand, of course, that the municipality has a lot of questions. We have listened to the arguments and tried to answer them. There were two information meetings with my staff and the staff of the Executive Board of the Buildings. A meeting was with the mayor and the ships, the second with the entire ship's college. In addition, I have been on the scene myself and have taken ample time to meet the mayor and the chief of police of the zone. We understand the concern and many questions and try to answer them. A detention center is just designed to make society safer by carrying out all the punishments and by accompanying the prisoners, thus reducing the recidivism. We have proposed to the municipality to develop the project together and inform the residents of the neighborhood. With the Regie der Bouwken we went looking for buildings with sleeping accommodation, multivalent rooms and offices for administration and the building in question meets this requirement. The building hasn't been purchased yet. There should be very minimal adjustments. It's mostly about the placement of some cameras. For the cost of this, please refer to my colleague Michel. As regards parking, the standard applicable to all public services is respected. Given the number of employees and the distance to public transport there is a need for 6 parking spaces. At the location there are 10 parking spaces, which is sufficient. As far as destination is concerned, the necessary procedures will be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u11	Minister, I am not really getting an answer to my question on the objections. You have said that there is sufficient parking space, but it is still the intention to re-integrate the residents of the detention house through, among other things, employment. If there is no employment there and the municipal administration says that we need to go further on land and that there is a problem with bus and train connections, then that seems important to me, but I cannot get an answer to those questions. Real estate wasn't purchased. So it will still have to be purchased, but you do need the city council to re-destine the building. You say that the procedures will be followed. If the communication of the beginning is flawed and a number of comments are not taken into account, then such situations arise. Other pain points should also be taken seriously. There must be positive advice from the police zone and risk analysis. We hope that the dossier is moving in the right direction and that you will give an answer to those questions. We'll follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u12	Minister, "crime does not pay" is now a well-known adage. It is also a principle shared by most judicial systems around the world. Thus, recently, the U.S. Department of Justice seized for nearly 94,000 Bitcoin chips that had been hacked on a platform in 2016. At the time, these Bitcoins were worth $71 million. Now their value is $3.6 billion. This case demonstrates that pursuing and investigating is not only a duty for the State but also a potential source of income. In this case, the hackers had attempted to clear the stolen transaction funds in transaction, using cryptocurrency through non-fungible tokens (non-fungible tokens or NFTs) - i.e. certificates of authenticity associated with a virtual object, Walmart acquisition cards and Uber payments, among others. The investigation of bleaching circuits has shown that these circuits are fast, complex and protiform. However, this did not prevent the investigators from recovering the stolen funds. The successes of the U.S. police show that cryptocurrencies are not a safe haven for criminals, and in any case they must never be. The work to ensure that "crime does not pay" requires time, patience, technical means and human resources. It is not a luxury for investigative services but a necessity, in our time, to be connected in all areas. In Belgium, we already have cases that bind scams and cryptocurrency. I am referring to the One Coin and Vitae cases, which will be a landmark in our judicial records. With the crisis of the covid-19, virtual currency scams literally exploded according to several experts on the subject, including police officers trained in the field of cybercrime. Judicial news has been made of scams and frauds, including fraudulent bankruptcies. No one wants to see these cryptocurrency scams get worse. Minister, can you give me the number of cases related to this type of fraud and ensure that the prosecution and the police have the capacity to track the money in any form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u13	Mijnheer de voorzitter, dear colleague, without being able to give you the exact figures - I invite you to ask me a written question so that I can obtain the information requested - I can confirm that the appearance of cryptocurrency in police investigations is clearly on the rise. About five years ago, mainly, the specialists at the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) dealt with cryptocurrency. Subsequently, this was also taken up by the regional computer crime units, some of which, following concrete investigations, also acquired some expertise. In recent years, we have also noticed that we are receiving more and more requests for support from the local police, which are investigating this issue, often in the context of drug trafficking or investment fraud. Reliability, irreversibility of transactions and perceived anonymity make cryptocurrencies the preferred method of payment for victims of criminals in the context of ransomware and other forms of extortion. For the same reasons, cryptocurrency is also popular for payments between criminals on the dark web. Cryptocurrency thus facilitates a wide range of criminal phenomena, including drug trafficking, arms trafficking and child abuse. As a means of payment between criminals, cryptocurrency also plays an important role in the ecosystem of what is called cybercrime as a service. This system is an important enabler of cybercrime that increases the technological complexity of cyberattacks without the need for authors themselves to have a high level of technical knowledge. As knowledge of cryptocurrency properties increases, we also see an increase in the number of scams around this theme, such as inital corner offering scams, investment scams and a wide range of Ponzi and pyramidal frauds. Finally, users of cryptocurrency platforms themselves are also targeted by hackers who attack their wallets or associated assets. In response to your second question, within the police services, step-by-step support is provided. The local police first contact the RCCU (Regional Computer Crime Unit) of its judicial district for any question or need for support regarding cryptocurrency. RCCU staff may, in turn, make use of FCCU experts when required. To analyze cryptocurrency transactions, the font uses a shared license from the chain analytics commercial tool. Depending on changing personnel requirements and technical developments, the need for additional licences or other applications is assessed on an ongoing basis. Let us not forget that the cryptocurrency investigation requires a lot of work, especially when it comes to creating a burden of proof. In addition, cryptocurrency naturally provides users with anonymity, which complicates investigation efforts. Police services are developing expertise within the FCCU. Several members are specialized and this expertise is also developed and shared through the National Virtual Currency Working Group. In addition to representatives of different police services, other actors such as the SPF Economy, Customs and FSMA are also represented on this platform. For some time now, cybercrime is no longer the domain of specialized police units. It is therefore crucial to increase the professional competence of all police officers in this area. The computer crime tracking module, for which the target audience is investigators, includes cryptocurrency and the dark web. International efforts are also being made to develop training for police officers, including through CPOL and the European Cybercrime Training and Education Group. Belgium is also making efforts in this area. The FCCU is a pilot for the development of advanced training on the dark web and has previously developed a Cryptocurrency and dark web investigation training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I look forward, by means of a written reply which you may wish to communicate to me, to the details of the figures and, if possible, of the location in the territory, without, however, providing information which would be contrary to the preservation of anonymity. I will follow this file carefully. Like you, I am convinced that this type of fraud will be more and more frequent and that our police will have to be alert and trained to track this type of crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u15	Mr President, Minister, very soon there will be a place for drug addicts in the city of Brussels. In response to my previous questions, you did not take a position on a specific aspect, namely the contradiction of such areas of use with Article 3 of the Drugs Act. For you there appears to be no problem, because the local parquet agrees with the project. In the meantime, it appears that even a circular has been drawn up which commits the public prosecutor not to prosecute for the infringement of the facilitation of the use of narcotic drugs by others, nor of the infringement of the simple possession of narcotic drugs in the investigation area intended to be used in the use area under certain conditions. It goes without saying that an addict who goes to a utility room will carry his stuff, which means that he owns and brings drugs, but some kind of tolerance policy is introduced in the vicinity of the user rooms. In a previous reply, you also pointed out that the General Cell Drugs Policy would address this issue. In the Cell, an ad hoc working group has been mandated on risk mitigation areas. The Working Group recently concluded that there is no consensus on a change to the Drugs Act in order to create a clearer legal framework for use areas. Mr. Secretary, will you keep turning a blind eye? Are you still ignoring the fact that drug use areas are in breach of Article 3 of the Drug Act? That article prohibits the facilitation of drug use, while the establishment of a use area facilitates the drug use network. Do you agree with the circular letter and the prosecution policy laid down in it? Since we cannot get hold of that letter, can you provide Parliament with a copy? There is currently no consensus within the General Cell Drugs Policy. The story of that cell is over. What next steps will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u16	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, with regard to your first question, the situation is more complex. In Brussels, the legal framework has since evolved. On 22 July 2021, the Joint Community Commission approved an order expressly providing for an exception to Article 3 (2) of the 1921 Act on the basis of powers. The debrief of the prosecutor was issued in accordance with the order mentioned. The Directive lays down the conditions under which the user may move to space. Exceptions apply to minors where there are indications of trade or use on public roads. As you know, the General Cell Drugs Policy prepares the drugs policy for the thematic meetings on drugs of the IMC Public Health. Within that cell there is a working group on drug users' rooms, which has identified a number of options, which is currently under discussion. I would also point out that we are not sitting still. Firstly, we focus on the fight against the supply side and tackle dealers, smugglers, producers and financiers hard. Witnessed the many actions in the aftermath of Sky ECC. Conversely, we also target users. With the circular COL / 9221 we now for the first time also make an immediate friendly settlement (OMS) possible for drug users. The system has been running for several years in Antwerp, where almost 13,000 cases of drug use or possession on the public domain have already been dealt with with by an OMS. In this way, the burden on the public domain, linked to its use, can be reduced, but problematic users can also be notified and referred to the provision of drug aid. For the really problematic users who also commit common law, we have a system of drug follow-up rooms, in which this government also invests extra.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u17	Mr Minister, those are answers that are not really there. You're not sitting still? It is rather on the terrain that people do not sit still. Sky and the police have stumbled upon something. I still think it's not up to politics to put that feather on the hat. This is done on the premises by the police, the federal police, the judicial police, the local police, despite the fact that they have limited capacity and resources. So that plume belongs to them. OMS for drug users is indeed an Antwerp example. I am glad that good practices are accepted and that goes further. There has always been a good collaboration with the parquet in Antwerp. That is where people have dared to tackle problematic drug use. The drug follow-up room and the treatment room are also good initiatives that have been taken in practice and which we support. The extension was also included in our programme, but we cannot put those plumes on our hat. It can be said that the situation has changed, that an order has been issued in Brussels, on the basis of powers. What powers are you talking about, Minister? It is then called prevention, while criminal law still stipulates that the facilitation of drug use should not be allowed. One still needs the parquet for circular letters, order or no order. They're gonna ignore the law. They're gonna stand down. That means one can walk around with drugs in one's pocket. If I were a problematic drug user, I'd be smart. Then I'd do it near the user rooms. I can have that in my pocket, because I'm on my way to that room. What particularly bothers me, especially in Brussels, is that this is happening under the guise of prevention. We have known for so long that tolerance policy runs counter to distress and therefore runs counter to prevention. Ultimately, what is happening here is a tolerance policy and almost simply signal that drugs can be safely used. However, drugs are always unsafe. An addiction is unsafe. That is a totally wrong signal that is being given. This is your duty as Minister. You can, on the one hand, argue that you will fight the supply side and will work on OMS and that's more. In the meantime, however, it is quietly watched when a letter is made allowing tolerance policies and sending a totally wrong signal, which certainly cannot be done under the guise of prevention. That is a great pity, Minister. I would have expected you to speak more harshly in that area and to have a clearer position. You did not answer my questions. After all, Article 3 of the Drugs Act is clear. Although the old drug law, which is by the way tomorrow's birthday, may well have had to be revised here and there, it would have been nice if you, who are always firm in your statements, had been a little firmer here too. However, I understand. There is no consensus within Vivaldi. I'll definitely come back to the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u18	In March last year, the European Court of Justice gave a negative ruling on the data retention law in force at that time. In April 2021, the Belgian Constitutional Court therefore destroyed the data retention law. That wasn't a surprise. For the ongoing investigations, the criminal court case could still assess on a case-by-case basis whether it was permissible to use the information. This would therefore no longer be possible for new investigations. That's a problem. The preventive recording of telephone records is no longer legal. This is indeed a handicap for the investigation services. They make use of this during their investigations. I have already asked you about this because it is urgent that a solution be found, especially in the context of criminal investigations. On 7 May, the Council of Ministers approved a draft at first reading and the law would be restored. You suggested this as a lasagna. However, a whole bunch of negative advice came in and then it was quiet for six months. On 17 December, a second reading of the draft was adopted by the Council of Ministers. Before the draft was sent to Parliament, it would still be submitted to the Interministerial Committee on Telecommunications, Radio broadcasting and Television and to the Consultative Committee. Last year you said that there will be a solution, that you will continue and that this is necessary. Meanwhile, we are almost a year after the Constitutional Court ruling. What are the main lines of the draft approved by the Council of Ministers at second reading? Have all the necessary advice for this design already been received and, if necessary, processed? When will you come to the Chamber with the design? When can we discuss this? What influence has the destruction of the data retention law had on newly launched investigations? Do police and prosecutors notice that this makes their operation and investigation more difficult? Does the draft law provide a solution to these problems or will the operation of the investigation services be permanently disrupted? When do you hope to bring the new law into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u19	I am happy to take a hint of the veil and follow the opinions of the various authorities, namely the Data Protection Authority (GBA), the Committee I, the Council of State and the Supervisory Body on Police Information (COC). We have made a number of changes, but the main points have remained the same as at first reading. The judicial services will still be able to request data from operators in a number of cases. This concerns, firstly, data held by operators for their own needs or in the interests of their subscribers. It is also a matter of data which operators must retain on the basis of a geographical criterion, i.e. in police zones or judicial districts as a function of statistics on serious crime near strategic sites, or even across the country on the basis of the threat level. Finally, it may also be possible for the court or intelligence services to issue a retention order in a specific file. Furthermore, the rule contains a passage stating that the providers of encrypted communications must meet the same retention obligations as the classic operators and there is a section describing the retrieval of data. As far as your second question is concerned, all the opinions on this draft have indeed been received and incorporated into the text. However, an additional problem has arisen. The Constitutional Court again destroyed a piece of the telecoms law in December 2021, in particular the so-called prepaid law adopted during the previous reign. This law required the registration of prepaid SIM cards. According to the Constitutional Court, we should register in a law and not in a KB which data should be kept to identify a user. This destruction also has an impact on the articles involved in the repair of the data retention law. Since we cannot ask Parliament to vote on a law that contains unconstitutional passages, we have chosen to respond first to the objections of this judgment. The plan is to get this part approved by the Council of Ministers in March and then to ask for opinions on it, something for which we will be asking for urgency. As far as your third and sixth questions are concerned, we will present both draft laws together this year to Parliament. As far as your fourth question is concerned, you know that the prosecution is relying on Antigon law as laid down in Article 32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is important that the Court of Cassation has accepted that view in a recent judgment. In concrete terms, the metadata of communication, preserved by the operators, still used daily by the judiciary and accepted by judges as evidence, in so far as the unlawfulness committed has not affected the reliability of the evidence and the use of the evidence is not contrary to the right to a fair trial. As far as your fifth question is concerned, our explicit aim is to ensure the functioning of the service by means of our solution, while providing a sound and responsible basis for the retention of the correct data by the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to do here the retroact or the inventory of all the questions I have asked you for months on internal management and compliance by the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB). I would just like to remind you that a few weeks ago, I asked you about the credit to be given to the steps taken to renew the governing bodies of this body representing the Muslim cult in our country. And that was before we, parliamentarians, received this smoking letter from the current President of the Executive, a questionable letter, with often false, provocative, aggressive, sometimes serious assertions, since calling into question our state and its independence, worse going so far as to accuse the state, including its intelligence services, of interference. I want to say that this is the penultimate step. More recently, there have been public announcements to free public funding, through the establishment of a self-financing mechanism with the contribution of more than 600,000 euros coming directly from mosques. That's what we heard. And last but not least, we have received quite curious denials from the people approached by the Executive to participate in the renewal process, especially university professors, who said that they had not been invited or declined the invitation. We have therefore received all these particularly appealing letters in view of the notoriety, quality and competence of the signatories. I think you have received like me the letters from Mrs Torrekens, Mr Husson, Mr Privot or Mr Boulala (????) [[KUL.]] Mr Minister, it is therefore without any real surprise and with great satisfaction that I have been able to take note of your decision to simply remove the recognition of this body. The last elements are, however, particularly serious and confirm a distressing situation. I do not know if you remember this, but on 16 December last, in plenary, I mentioned to you the analogy that could be made between the Belgian situation and the French situation where your colleague from the Interior had just declared that the representative body of the Muslim cult in France had died. It seems to me that today the analogy is perfect with Belgium. On Friday, you announced the withdrawal of recognition from this body. I would therefore like to ask you about this withdrawal, but also about its impact on a number of issues, including the Great Mosque in Brussels. Have you received any information on the renewal process that was under way, as claimed by the President of the Belgian Muslim Executive? Have you received the conclusions of the last State Security Report on this body? If so, what are they? What specific decisions have already been taken in the context of withdrawing its recognition? Given the situation and the likely end of the official status of the Belgian Muslim Executive, what will happen to the role of manager of the Great Mosque in Brussels? Who is the State's interlocutor today for this cult and to rebuild its representativeness? Finally, have you already taken any steps to meet with all the representatives of the federations representing the three regions of the country to set up a credible exchange, with a view to the creation of a new official body of the Muslim cult in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u22	Mr Minister, on 17 February you decided to initiate the procedure for withdrawing the recognition of the Muslim Executive from Belgium. In particular, you said that the organization "can no longer be a discussion partner". At the same time, you have confirmed the cancellation of a federal government grant to this agency. It is true that this body has suffered many ills for years: strong internal dissension, lack of representativeness, foreign interference in particular from Morocco and Turkey, lack of transparency, opaque supervision of the Coordinating Council of Islamic Institutes (CIB) and Council of theologians whose members are not known, accusations including a report by the Security Council which says its president linked to extremism. As a parliamentarian and my colleague have just referred to it, on 19 January I received a letter from the President of the EMB, who left me with pantois, among other surprises: attack in good standing against you, attack by parliamentarians, attack by other associations, attacks by the Belgian media, opacity clearly claimed by the president of the structures which exercise oversight over the EMB such as the CIB and the Council of theologians, denial of foreign interference pointed out by the Sûreté. Those elected who are concerned about the EMB's drifts are brought back to the rank of populists and critics are described as "hate, insulting and defamatory words" that "stigmatize the community". These unfounded accusations are totally unacceptable. There was also this false information about the consultation of academics and representatives of civil society. It is important to look for a credible alternative to the current team and I support that will. Can you remind us of the reasons and the course of the withdrawal procedure initiated? Could you tell us what alternatives you are currently studying, on the basis of which criteria, with which partners and when? Does the French model inspire you? Some accuse you of wanting to eventually regionalize the Executive. What about it? What about the management of the Great Mosque?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u23	Colleagues, with regard to your first three questions, I have already said last week that it was a missed opportunity and a step backwards rather than a step forward. I received clarification on the process on February 11. I hold in high esteem the principle of the separation between worship and the State. So I wanted to give the EMB every chance to achieve its renewal. It took several months. I have asked that the body responsible for renewing the executive be a reflection of the diversity of the Muslim community in Belgium and that it consider the future organisation of the executive for both temporal and cultural aspects. The document I have studied does not respond to these requests and shows that the old generation refuses to give way to the evolution of Islam in Belgium. The proposal for renewal that the executive has submitted to me obliges Belgian Muslims to be part of a certain pillar, such as the Moroccan or Turkish community. Converted or other ethnic Muslims are represented by a negligible pillar. I believe in a structure where ethnicity and origin do not play a central role. A representative body should be able to organize itself at the federal level in which ethnicity is not the main element. I want to be able to speak to a body mature enough to defend the rights of all Muslims in Belgium. The other religions succeed in organizing themselves, and I am sure that Muslims can do the same. I have given the executive the time to set up an autonomous renewal project and the organization of elections. The renewal project that I have received does not contain a single signature, is characterized by a lack of transparency and does not demonstrate an effective commitment to improvement. For example, it is not clear who contributed to the project and the meetings and hearings that preceded it. Almost two years have elapsed since the expiry of the mandates of the various executive bodies. There is still no prospect of renewal of the body or even of a concrete timetable for the existence of these bodies. Furthermore, we all know that there are other shortcomings and serious dysfunctions that further undermine the legitimacy and representativeness of the body. These are administrative deficiencies such as the internal working regulations that have not been approved by the entire executive, the limited number of meetings of the executive, the incorrect composition of VZW College, the non-compliance with its own internal working regulations, the lack of guidance for Islamic advisers to obtain the language certificate, and the absence of an executive response to the requests of the Islamic community. Decisions are made by a limited number of people. The entire Executive has not met for a long time. On 4 October, I asked the State Security to conduct an investigation within the scope of its powers. A classified report was submitted to me on 13 January. Given his character, I cannot go into the details of this document. However, I can point out that the investigations carried out confirmed the involvement of foreign powers in the functioning of the Executive, whether clandestinely or not. The conclusion of the investigation is that every step towards a better organisation of the Executive and a better relationship between the Muslims of Belgium and the Executive is justified. The State Security does not aim to monitor religious communities in a structural manner in the future, but it will continue to work in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 30 November 1998. Security and other security services remain available to provide the Regions with relevant information that can assist in the process of recognizing local religious communities. Mr Pivin, this is an intention to withdraw the recognition of the Executive. The representative body shall have the right to be heard. We live in a rule of law, as you know. We live in a democracy. It takes a little time. It's not like in other countries. The body must be heard and answer questions relating to their proposed renewal. After this exchange, I will announce my final decision. I hope that my intention to withdraw recognition will create a lever for a new team to truly form a new Muslim representative organization. The Great Mosque of Brussels and the Executive are closely linked. It is important that the mosque remains open so that believers can continue to visit it. My thread for the Great Mosque remains the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to make it a real meeting place for all Muslims in our country. We are looking at this issue in depth, in collaboration with the Brussels-Capital Region. I have already spoken to his Minister-President on several occasions, whom I know very well. I want and I have to respect the rules of the rule of law. The Executive has a period of 15 days from the date of notification of the letter that I have sent to him to request a deadline on the facts formally criticized. The Executive has the right to be heard. I will not make a decision without giving him the opportunity to react. As the appropriate minister, it is not up to me to make up a new representative body. On the other hand, my mission is to recognize it, if necessary. What I've done and I can do is show that things can't go on that way. The Muslim community urgently needs a structure that is organized for the benefit of all Muslims in Belgium. Finally, I am cooperating in an excellent way with the regional ministers and the German-speaking Community. We are working on the 2008 Cooperation Agreement to re-emphasize each other's roles. But the question of a pure and lasting regionalisation of the Executive is not part of this work. In any case, it would not solve problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u24	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I am still stunned to hear that you have received a project of which you cannot identify the authors since, if I understand correctly, this document is not signed, which is very comfortable for the person who sent it to you. But this confirms that, as you said, the Executive has been holding the community on a leash for far too long. I therefore fully support you in your approach. I note that you are at the point of threat rather than execution. However, I ask you to be careful. Indeed, I recently read that this could reflect a desire – Georges Dallemagne has alluded to it – to regionalize Muslim worship. It is absolutely necessary to move away from this concept, from this suspicion, in order to concentrate on the real objective that you are pursuing, namely a renewal. And I will join you when you say that this renewal will have to come from below. Finally, I am beginning to wonder whether the Committee on Justice should not take an initiative in the near future to hear the heads of the Executive on their true intentions and actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, we share the same view. This problem dates back many years. Since its creation in 1996, few have been the times when the life of the Belgian Muslim Executive has been serene and confidence has been total. Both the legitimacy of the Muslim community and the confidence of the public authorities are needed. Unfortunately, these two principles have not been met very often. You also say, minister, that it is not your role to compose. I can hear you. At the same time, we have to get out of this rut and, at some point, take hands and try to organize meetings, consultations and see how we can get out of there because it's unbearable at the end. It takes a rather unpleasant look at how this cult is organized and, beyond that, it saddens many Muslims who are worried, frustrated and waiting for solutions. At some point, it may also be up to you, respecting the separation of powers, to find solutions. I find that French inspiration may not be entirely relevant. However, we must find interlocutors who have our confidence and with whom we can try to move forward. I would find it interesting to try this methodology. Finally, you tell us that you are not in favour of pure and hard regionalisation. I am not in favour of a regionalisation of light either. In my opinion, that would be a mistake. I therefore do not know how to understand this intervention on your part. But do not believe that by regionalising, we are going to solve the problems of, for example, external interference, which, in my opinion, is one of the most serious problems in the way the Muslim community is managed in Belgium. It's not by putting the ethnic group back where we're trying to remove it that we're going to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I fully agree with your findings and the reasons behind your decision, namely the lack of commitment on the part of the current team to represent interlocutors who are concerned with representing all Muslims, and also to advocate Islam that is consistent with fundamental democratic values. I understand that your decision is not final, that this withdrawal is not final, and that it is rather a threat that has been agitated for leverage. I hope that this approach will work, but I am concerned about the consequences that it would have if it did not work. First of all, we would suffer the loss of control over the executive of the Muslims of Belgium because, in so doing, because he would no longer be accountable to the government, he could put his threats to effect, that is to say, to remain through funding from other states, as is already the case today. This has been attested by the State Security. Moreover, these states do not share the will to bring out an Islam of Belgium with imams trained in Belgium. My other fear is what my colleagues have said. I fear that the Muslim community in our country will lose the only organ that is supposed to represent them beyond their differences: Sunnis, Shiites, Turks, Maghrebs, Sub-Saharans, etc. I'm saying it's supposed to be. I hear an interview will have to take place shortly. I hope that this interview will allow you to re-establish a true relationship of trust, but it seems to me that it can only be done with new interlocutors. That was the idea you put forward several months ago. All the more so since we have known for years that there is a real problem of functioning within the Belgian Muslim Executive, which was pointed out by the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry Attentats. I hope that we are facing a momentum, since the Executive is at the foot of the wall, which will finally allow us to have an organ fully concerned with the interests of all Muslims in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u27	Minister, some questions have already been asked about detention homes. This usually depends on other questions about what solution you have in store for the overpopulation of the prisons, and how you want to carry out the short sentences on top of that. It's the end of February, time goes fast. You have always said that there would be two detention homes in 2021. Now it seems clear that this summer will be the first time there will be in Kortrijk. For the rest, it remains rather quiet, except when there are protests, such as very recently in connection with the four-star hotel that was mentioned earlier. I read in the press that there would still be an agreement with a second city or municipality, but it remains silent. I'm part of the story of the detention centers. You know that the resolution was originally drafted by Mr Smeyers. We have always said that communication with the inhabitants and local authorities would be very important and that this should be taken into account in the choice of the environment. In the meantime, you have already understood that the proximity of a school or residential area always makes it much more sensitive and that the reactions will always be more intense. Minister, with which municipalities or cities has an agreement been reached on the opening of a detention house? How many more or less concrete slopes are on the table today to possibly open a detention house? What does your planning for 2022 look like? How many detention centers are you thinking of for the next year? Is that feasible, too? Will the deadline of 1 June be met for the Kortrijk detention house? How do you intend to better inform local authorities, in order to achieve a supported concept and reverse the negative perception that exists today around detention homes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u28	Minister, the establishment of detention homes during this period of government is an important part of the planned improvements in Belgian justice and penitentiary policy. The project is very affectionate to me and I think that there is a great deal of support for it here in Brussels. However, finding suitable locations and settings on the site are not easy. Sometimes there is ignorance about what exactly will happen and what this new concept means. The biggest challenge, however, is to deal with nimby syndrome. Citizens and politicians are sometimes afraid of the potential impact on the environment in which they live. Clear and targeted communication is therefore important. What is the status of this file? How many detention homes are currently planned? How many and which locations do you have in mind, but are not yet officially established? What specific problems are emerging in the search and negotiation of possible locations? What initiatives are underway to increase local support for possible detention homes? In what ways do you work with local authorities? Do you provide information for the administrations and citizens at the time when a possible location has been found for a detention home? If so, what does this trajectory look like? If not, why not? Finally, how do you guide boards that are interested in a detention home but still doubt for one reason or another?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u29	Mrs De Wit, Mr Van Hecke, the first detention house will open in Kortrijk. In addition, there is an agreement with Verviers and a place in Hainaut to open a detention house there. In addition to these three sites there are ten more or less concrete sites. The analyses and discussions are ongoing, but no final decision has yet been taken. What is striking and exciting is that everyone agrees that it is a good thing that something is being done about impunity and that detention homes are a good concept. In addition, we also see that everyone, wherever we plan a detention house, is opposed to this. It might not be a bad thing, then, to make a proposal to colleagues from both communities, Aartselaar and Merelbeke. As you know, a detention center is close to society in order to keep the link with family and rehabilitation services short and facilitate the return to society. However, we must note that this leads to a great deal of concern and that many mayors, not to say all mayors, prefer not to see the detention house in their congregation, but to see someone else. The support should be created by the Minister. Unfortunately, that will always be the case in the beginning. Mrs De Wit, the intention remains to open several houses this year. Kortrijk's deadline will be met. I attach great importance to communication. I'm also going on the scene so that everyone is properly informed. What are the steps we are taking in terms of communication in the municipalities? We have a lot of contacts with mayors. For example, every time a building is seen as a good solution, it is contacted with the mayor and possibly also with the college. During the first contact, the concept is explained. It also explains which types of buildings we are looking for, so that they can possibly make another proposal. With some municipalities we are on a regular basis together to see possible slopes within the municipality. In addition, information sessions were held with several mayors and an information session was also organised for the mayors by the governor of the province of Antwerp. We also always offer the municipalities, together with them, to inform the population and, if desired, to organise an information session or a neighbourhood meeting. We did that in Kortrijk and Verviers. For the citizens themselves, we are finalising a brochure to inform the public and explain the concept. As soon as the brochure is ready, it will be delivered to the population in the vicinity of a detention center in the future to explain what kind of building and decor will come near them. Finally, I remain convinced that, by repeating the benefits of detention homes, we are doing something for the safety of our society. That is why I ask all of us together to defend the detention homes, of course, so that we can finally move towards a better form of punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u30	Mr Minister, you have actually been riding around a number of questions. You say who you are talking to and that there are a dozen others, but I specifically asked how many detention homes you think you will be able to open this year. You only said that you would meet the deadline in Kortrijk, but you remember saying that there would be some 15 detention homes in this legislature. If you can only open one more this year... It is important that people work on the basis of their support, and I understand that this takes time. I am also convinced that setting up a detention house is a bit more complicated than was said, but you always use the detention houses as an argument in the execution that you want to improve. You also say that with the detention homes you will deal with the overpopulation of the prisons. Of course, at the current rate, you will have to find other solutions to this, because with one detention house in prospect in 2022 and the limited number of places a detention house provides, you will not be able to get there. However, this will be important if you want to meet this summer's deadline for the execution of all short sentences. You will still need a number of alternatives, including detention homes. We will follow it very closely. The fact that you did not answer the question is no coincidence to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic710x.u31	Minister, it is indeed not an easy task. While there is considerable support here in Brussels, we feel that the situation is more difficult at local level. I am glad to hear that, apart from the three detention homes you mentioned, there are still a dozen possibles in the pipeline. I hope that for the majority of them, or for all of them, this will lead to a positive decision. For the record, it is an absolute added value to work with detention homes. Minister, should there ever be an opportunity in my congregation, I will certainly give every support to the project. I will also discuss it with an important vessel in my municipality, which is also your party chairman. I assume you will also ask for his support if necessary. However, let us above all try to organise the information properly so that people know what will happen. After all, this is an important step in our penitentiary policy.
