ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u1	Minister, in times of war, the situation is changing from day to day and it is always the people who pay the high price. Unfortunately, this is still the case in Ukraine. Thousands of homes have already been destroyed and a large part of the population is in the most precarious situation, seeking to escape fighting and bombing. According to the United Nations, more than 12 million people have and are going to need help. According to their latest figures, more than ten million Ukrainians have fled their homes since the start of the offensive and 3.5 million have left their country. Soon after the Russian invasion began, you decided to release a budget of three million euros, channelled through the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Material was also sent, as was the large number of donations made by citizens. You then decided to make available an additional €2 million to the United Nations agency responsible for coordinating humanitarian affairs. In the face of the unprecedented scale of this tragedy, it is essential that Belgium remain constantly attentive to the needs of the Ukrainian people. Can you provide an update on the extent of humanitarian assistance currently being provided by our country? What material was sent? How much? Do you know what was actually done with this Belgian aid? What deliveries are already scheduled for the next days and weeks? Is it envisaged to increase the Belgian contribution further? Are any other levers going to be activated? Finally, what about the coordination of this aid at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u2	Minister, since 23 February, we have been living in hell in Europe and, in particular, in Ukraine. Vladimir Putin launched a large-scale military operation that can be described as savage and barbaric aggression under cover of peacekeeping forces, as he said at the beginning of the invasion. Russian troops invaded Ukraine from the north, east, south and west via Belarus. This invasion is coordinated both on the sea and on the land and in the air, as well as through cyberspace. Since then, Russia's aggression has unfortunately not stopped. It is even becoming increasingly savage and despicable, deliberately massacring civilians. The number of civilian casualties continued to increase day by day, as did the number of refugees and displaced persons. As my colleague De Maegd also said, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was speaking this week of 3.5 million exiled people who will have to be welcomed and managed. As you know, the Chamber, on the initiative of my group, has severely condemned Russia for this act of war and no humanitarian corridor has yet been allowed, in any case humanitarian corridors as we understand it and not as Vladimir Putin sees them, that is to say, leading the Ukrainians to Russia – in this case we cannot speak of a humanitarian corridor itself –. My questions, Madam Minister, are as follows: what exactly information do you have, the number of people in need, the negotiations for access to humanitarian aid, the organisation of real corridors? What is the way to deliver the help? How has Belgium positioned itself in this direction in multilateral debates at European level? Your department has released an additional budget, which I welcome. What is the exact amount? For what purpose will it be used? Is there also coordination at EU level in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u3	Minister, the situation in Ukraine is deteriorating, and with it the number of people in need is increasing every day. The number of refugees reached 3 million. Every day, some 150,000 Ukrainians flee the country and need our help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u4	Colleagues, as some of you have said, ordinary people pay the highest price in war. We should never think it normal that fathers should say goodbye to their children, that mothers should fear bombs and bullets where they should actually be safe at home and that grandparents are left behind and not know if they will be there tomorrow. The humanitarian situation in Ukraine is deteriorating by the day. I am therefore pleased to hear that you share my concern about the Ukrainian people. Together with our humanitarian partners and my services, I closely monitor the situation. According to the latest information, nearly 3.5 million people have been forced to leave Ukraine since the outbreak of hostilities on 24 February. Nearly 6.5 million people are internally displaced. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees also estimates that, in addition to these displaced persons, some 13 million people have been affected by the fight and are in need of humanitarian assistance. Belgium supports the humanitarian effort in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, both through the financing of partner humanitarian organisations and through the provision of aid in kind. We were able to contribute to the humanitarian response very quickly thanks to the flexible funding granted annually by Belgium to various humanitarian funds. On the second day of the conflict, the UN CERF, the fund to which Belgium contributes EUR 17 million annually, released USD 20 million for the most urgent needs. Meanwhile, an additional USD 40 million was granted by this fund to reach the most vulnerable. Other flexible funds, such as the International Red Cross, the FAO and the World Food Programme, have already allocated funding to meet the urgent needs of this crisis. Belgium has also allocated €2 million specifically to OCHA's Humanitarian Fund for Ukraine in order to provide a quick and flexible response. This amount is distributed according to the needs among the aid organisations present on the spot. In addition, our country has allocated €3 million to ICIC for its protection and prevention activities in Ukraine. We are considering the possibility of increasing the Belgian contribution, whether through OCHA or other funding channels. I have asked for an extra budget for this and more will be needed to meet the enormous needs. At the same time, other crises, such as those in Yemen, Syria, Afghanistan and Ethiopia, will continue to require resources. In addition to funding humanitarian efforts, Belgium has also been responsible for dispatching relief equipment through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. B-Fast sent several assistance convoys containing tents, blankets, hygiene and kitchen kits, hygiene and women's products, milk and powders, and diapers. B-Fast also sent relief equipment to Moldova and Slovakia for a value of EUR 1.1 million. For its part, the Public Health FPS sent medical equipment to Ukraine, Slovakia and Poland. These operations currently amount to more than EUR 3 million. On 8 March I visited the border between Ukraine and Poland. In particular, I would like to express our solidarity and talk to our partners who provide assistance on the ground. I have received a clearer picture of the needs of both the Ukrainians on the run and the Polish authorities, who have to deal with them. There are no employees of my services stationed on site, but we do receive daily updates from our humanitarian partners. I have included two lessons: firstly, the importance of protecting children, and secondly, the importance of coordination in view of the huge wave of solidarity. What will stay with me most of my visit is the large number of children on the run. It is quite right that you should also mention the dangers of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, I saw this with my own eyes: during a conversation with someone from UNHCR at the border, six children were taken out of a car from which they did not know where they were going and what their connection was with the drivers. I also expressed my concern about the safety of children during the meeting with my Polish colleague. I have insisted on child-friendly places and safe care and the importance of working with partner organisations that we can trust, such as UNICEF. UNICEF takes the issue to heart and is one of the international organisations that can avail itself of funding from the CERF of the OCHA for Ukraine. The IOM also has programmes against human trafficking which it will strengthen in Poland and Slovakia. Children on the run are particularly vulnerable to abuse, exploitation and trafficking in children. 28 percent of the victims of trafficking worldwide are children. I will therefore focus on the fight against it as a matter of priority. I can tell you that all colleagues in the federal government share that concern. I have discussed this with UNICEF and Child Focus, among others. As I have already announced today, I will release EUR 2 million more in order to put my shoulders in the fight against this together with UNICEF. Belgium participates in the coordination initiatives of the international community. I discussed the situation with the other European Development Ministers in Montpellier on 7 March at the informal meeting of the EU Council. At technical level, we are participating in a European working group responsible for documenting and coordinating the contribution of the Member States, both physically and financially. At UN level, Belgium participates at different levels in the briefings of the various UN organisations. They are partners like the OCHA and the ICRC, who get our help close to the people. The humanitarian corridors are vital. The UN organisations are negotiating this with the various parties in the conflict, both with Ukraine and Russia. In this regard, I would also like to mention the considerable efforts made by civil society, the Belgian private sector and our fellow citizens. The Belgian population shows great solidarity, which is reflected in many private initiatives, including the 1212 initiative, which brings together a number of Belgian NGOs working mainly in Ukraine's neighbouring countries. Moreover, thanks to OCHA's Connecting Business initiative, Belgian companies are also involved in the humanitarian support provided to Ukraine. Solidarity is immense, which makes coordination essential. I found that in Mendica on the Polish border. It is heartwarming that so many people want to offer so much help, but this is accompanied by a considerable logistical challenge. That is why, immediately after my visit, I brought together the Belgian NGOs to talk about this. In Geneva, I also spoke with the representatives of OCHA and ICRC, organisations which coordinate all humanitarian aid and work coordination and NGOs respectively. My answer was long, but the crisis requires a great deal of coordination and follow-up, and I insisted on informing you as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. Of course, I share your concerns. That is why I believe that our country must remain vigilant to make a constant effort in this unfortunately protracted crisis. You mentioned this €3 million aid through the ICRC and this additional €2 million aid through the United Nations Agency for Humanitarian Affairs. Unfortunately, as we can see, this conflict is going to last. We have gone on long-term, if not very long-term, aid with unprecedented damage in a country close to Europe. I welcome your very rapid reaction – you said that you acted quickly, and I concede it – but also your reflection on what humanitarian aid should be in the coming weeks and months to Ukraine. I can hear you. You're right. Belgian solidarity is remarkable. I am referring to the solidarity of citizens and businesses, as well as to the reception which is not directly within your competence but that of Mr Sammy Mahdi. When we see that 88% of the people who are accommodated in Belgium are in private homes and not by the State, it is simply remarkable on the part of the Belgian citizen. I believe that the State must take the lead in this ordeal and in this spirit of solidarity. I also think, Madam Minister, that we should keep an eye on how the funds are distributed on the ground – it is extremely important – and how the material is distributed. You mentioned a whole series of distributions in Moldova, Slovakia, Poland or Ukraine. If I hear you correctly, there will be other deliveries, other financial efforts that will be made but they are not yet quantifiable at the time it is. We do not have precise figures on these future efforts. I urge you to move forward and be proactive about it, but I think you are. And as far as diplomatic efforts on humanitarian corridors are concerned, I can only acquiesce. One point which I think is also extremely important and which you have mentioned at length is that of trafficking in human beings. I am particularly attentive to this issue. You may not know that, Madam Minister, but we are debating in our committee a resolution on the recognition of illegal adoptions. We're talking about the children who are the first victims of the war. What did the Vice-Chairman of the United Nations Committee on Enforced Disappearances, Mr. de Frouville, say yesterday at hearings? It was clear to us that, unfortunately, what is happening with illegal adoptions is going to happen again with the Ukrainian scenario. He specifically mentioned it. From this perspective, it is necessary to be extremely vigilant to be able to protect these "children of war" as well as mothers as best as possible. We can see that human traffickers are once again on the lookout. Unfortunately, I fear a further disaster in this area in the coming months. Thank you for paying attention to this as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u6	Madam Minister, you have been very comprehensive and, with the completeness of the information, I would like to add one of the qualities that is yours. It is efficiency with always a lot of humility. You have shown how flexible funding has enabled you to react immediately. You are also making every effort to coordinate, structure better at European level and to consider the humanitarian corridors, which are known to be the result of negotiations led by the United Nations. You are making every effort to deliver equipment where it is useful, in the countries that are the first to receive refugees. You mentioned Poland, Slovakia and Moldova. I was doing the calculation: 13 million people affected by conflict, 3.5 million exiles, 6.5 million internally displaced persons. That is 23 million people, twice in Belgium, who will have to be cared for and who you are already caring for with your colleagues. I do believe that it will be necessary to be very vigilant because man can be at the base of formidable impulses of generosity – it is the luminous face of man – but there are also much darker faces that take advantage of the distress of people, either to capture them in a very sordid labour market or to train children. Our colleague De Maegd has a very important resolution on the problem of illegal adoption. But, beyond illegal adoption, there are sometimes prostitution and child pornography related to these children. It's obviously sordid and horrible. I think, Madam Minister, that you, like your colleagues in the government, have really become aware of the historical responsibility of Belgium. Finally, you did not hesitate to point out in your reply that we should not forget the Afghan, Syrian, Ethiopian and other refugees who are victims of deadly conflicts and that sometimes we forget here or see in a less friendly way because these people do not have the same colour of skin as ours when they arrive home. I believe that this is a lesson and I hope, because I am a positive and optimist, that our fellow citizens, who show a good momentum of solidarity, will therefore have a much more open eye to the human misery that is developing and ending in a difficult way throughout the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your long but necessary and comprehensive response. I thank you for addressing in particular the issue of the most vulnerable groups and especially children. We have the experience of the previous migration crisis of 2015, where very quickly we realized that there were a large number of unaccompanied foreign minors who found themselves preyed on predators of all kinds. My colleagues have just listed certain types, but there is also simply economic exploitation. In any case, our country has developed a reputation and expertise in the field of this protection and it is good to be up to such challenges. I would also like to thank you for continuing your coordination efforts over the long term, because I fear, like my colleagues, that this will only begin. One last word on humanitarian corridors. I was having a discussion with the Prime Minister in committee the other day about the possibility of air bridges. We find ourselves in a besieged city dynamics in Kiev and in a series of other places. I fear that, sooner or later, Westerners, failing to provide Ukrainians with anti-aircraft equipment to regain possession of their skies, will face a dilemma as to whether, in order to bring humanitarian aid to populations in need where it is no longer possible, an airlift should not be possible. I continue to fear that this is a necessary dilemma. After all, if we were able to do this between allies and the Soviet Union in Berlin in 1949, it would still be a shame if we could not do so today in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u8	Minister, there are links between the debate we have just had on the Ukrainian crisis and the amounts that our state is prepared to devote to international solidarity. Belgium is committed to achieving the United Nations target of allocating 0.7% of its gross national income (GNI) to official development assistance. It is also known that this objective was recalled to Parliament in 2019 in an excellent parliamentary resolution by Mrs Van Hoof. We also know that we are far from the goal. I would remind you, even if it is not necessary, that Belgium's development aid amounted to 0.42% of its GNI in 2019 and 0.46% of its GNI in 2020, while several European countries had reached 0.7% of their GNI at that time, showing us the way. Finally, I recall that our majority agreement states that "a binding growth path will be defined and implemented from 2021 onwards in order to achieve by 2030 the internationally agreed standard of 0.7% of GNI". This path is still awaited, but it seems to me to have understood that the Council of Ministers of 25 February would have confirmed, in the course of the debates on defence-related expenditure, the commitment of the government agreement on this binding path and that you, Madam Minister, would have been entrusted with the responsibility of implementing it. Can you confirm this confirmation by the Council of Ministers? Can you tell us if this trajectory will be realized by Budget 2023? Can you tell us how this trajectory will be developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u9	Mrs de Laveleye, the government agreement has agreed that we will be moving towards a growth path of 0.7% of gross national income by 2030 and that we must prepare for that. Since the coalition agreement was concluded, we have faced several crises. For two years we have faced a pandemic that has also put great pressure on our country's budget. I am glad that we were able to maintain our development cooperation budget last year and that we did not have to save. Although the budget has not increased, in many countries much has been saved on development cooperation in order to ease the pressure on the budget from the pandemic. Our country didn't do that. The crisis in Ukraine once again demonstrates the importance of international solidarity. I have spoken with several partners like UNICEF, all of whom say they need more resources. There are more crises and they're all taking a long time. Hence the importance of maintaining and increasing the budget for development cooperation. So I will not abandon the path of growth to 0.7% of the RMB. It was agreed in Kern to set a path of growth for international solidarity. On the basis of this decision, I have given instructions to draft a concrete and quantified plan to achieve this target by 2030. This proposal will be discussed within the government as part of the preparation of the 2023 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u10	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I know, of course, that you are concerned about having the means of your ambitions and your policy. You are responding to all the crises we face. I would like to respond to two points that you raised. First of all, you remind us that we have been facing several crises since the beginning of the legislature. This is the case for all European countries, some of which still reach 0.7. They must therefore show us the way, so that all Vivaldi's colleagues will be able to see that this path of growth is possible. Then you did not specify who would be responsible for preparing the plan for the 2023 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u12	It will be you, with the help of your administration. That's very good. I hope that this plan will be supported by your majority partners, and I will ensure that my message is similar. I would also like to respond to your answer to the previous question. Everyone welcomes the additional resources you are committing to Ukraine. I would just like to draw our collective attention to the fact that this should not be done at the expense of the other crises for which you are also active. These must be additional resources provided by our official development assistance. I hope that we will be able to see an increase in the course of the year, because aid to Ukraine will be in addition to that which you are providing in the context of other crises experienced by countries undergoing conflict, climate change or major internal disorders. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the reception of Ukrainian refugees, of whom we must be proud, cannot be counted as official development assistance. There is a tendency to classify the reception as a "phantom" aid. The aid we are providing must be ambitious, but must also not burden the budgets of international solidarity. I look forward to this path of growth. You receive our full support - and I am talking about all your colleagues from the majority. We will focus on follow-up in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u13	We must not forget the other crises. I did not get a question about it, but I did go to the Yemen donor conference in Geneva this week to point out that we should not forget the other crises. I deliberately chose to be physically present there. I was one of the few ministers who was actually physically present. For me, it was important to signal that we are dealing with all the crises. It is not because today all the attention goes to Ukraine that we should not see the other crises. I share colleagues' concern that we should pay due attention to every crisis. I'm talking to all the partners about the budget. Everyone needs more budget. The budget is not growing to the extent of existing needs. We make the exercise how the partners can work more together. The UNHCR is already doing this with UNICEF, for example. How can the partners work more together to be cost-efficient so that we can work much more effectively together? Those exercises are being made today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u14	Minister, thank you for the addition. This shows how much you need growth predictability for the missions that are yours, which are eminently important. I hope that you will be given the means and that the majority of Vivaldi will help you get visibility on growth budgets. We're going to need it in the years to come, and it's imperative that you get this path of growth by 2023. I hope we'll see some already in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u15	Minister, on 22 October, the Israeli government decided to qualify six of the largest Palestinian human rights NGOs as terrorists, namely al-Haq and Addameer, the Union of Agricultural Labour Committees (UWC), the Bisan Research and Development Centre, Defense for Children Palestine-International and the Union of Palestinian Women's Committees. Some of them work actively with Belgian cooperation. Israel used the pretext of hypothetical links with the Marxist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (FPLP) to establish this measure without, however, giving any proof of it. In November, in the debate that followed the presentation of your policy note, you stressed that support for Palestinian civil society remains a priority and that it would be necessary "to discuss with European partners how best to support Palestinian NGOs." Today, it is up to us that in the European fora some would express their wish to follow the Israeli government on this point. This will would be particularly marked in the head of the Hungarian Commissioner for Enlargement and Neighbourhood. Do you confirm the reality of this threat to Palestinian civil society? Do you reiterate your clear support – as in the fall – for these NGOs? Finally, what actions is Belgium taking to defend them at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u16	Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Safeguarding and increasing the space for civil society to play its essential role is a priority of my policy. An independent civil society is a prerequisite for good governance and sustainable development not only in Palestine or Israel, but also here in Belgium and Europe. Civil society organisations working to promote human rights and democratic values will always find in me and in our country a strong ally. As regards the European Commission's position with regard to the six NGOs designated as terrorists by the Israeli Ministry of Defence, the financing of two of these organisations has been suspended by the European Commission. This is a temporary measure pending conclusions based on the analysis of the documents shared by the Israeli authorities. For now, this analysis has not been completed. In the meantime, my services remain in close contact with the other donors concerned, the European Commission and the European External Action Service. We have asked the Commission to plan its position quickly. As you know, my administration conducted an internal investigation into the allegations. It did not reveal any evidence that would confirm the allegations. I therefore decided not to take any action against the Palestinian organizations in question. Nor are the evidence transmitted by the Israeli authorities such as to reconsider my decision. Recently, I approved the new five-year programmes for non-governmental actors. In this context, our country continues to support the programmes of nine Belgian non-governmental actors in Palestine and Israel. Needless to say, this new funding will be closely monitored, using existing monitoring mechanisms. As I mentioned earlier, Belgian partner organisations are asked to identify the risks associated with working with Palestinian partners and to develop an appropriate strategy to minimize these risks. In addition, additional and explicit provisions have been notified to all beneficiary Belgian NGOs. In these, it is pointed out that the payment of the grant may be suspended and a refund requested if the Belgian organisation or its local partner does not respect human rights, democratic principles or the rule of law. The same applies if structural links with terrorist organisations designated by the European Union, the United Nations or Belgium are found. For more information on the dialogue with the Israeli authorities, I refer to my colleague Sophie Wilmès, who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u18	Minister, thank you for confirming that your line has not changed. However, you have not been very specific about the attitude of the European Commissioner, whom I refer to in my question. I would have liked to know if he was indeed the author of a rapprochement of the European line with the line defended by the Israeli government. I would also like to thank you for reminding you that the elements that prevail in the financing of our policy of cooperation with Palestinian NGOs are based on strict respect for principles, in this case that of the defence of human rights. I hear that the European Union has suspended funding for two out of the six NGOs, pending further information. In a policy of balance and justice, it would be wise to be as careful about the policy often pursued by the Israeli Government, particularly with regard to violent settlers or groups of settlers who attack Palestinian civilian populations, their fields, etc. We are sometimes less concerned about respect for human rights and the active complicity with which the Israeli government is committed in their violation. I also invite you to plead, at European level, for a form of fairness and balance in the common concern to see human rights respected everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you. We'll take the time to analyze your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, an agreement on a temporary lifting of patents to combat the covid-19 pandemic would eventually have been reached between the main players (the United States, the European Union, India and South Africa) at the World Trade Organization (WTO), after more than 17 months of negotiations. I'm glad. As you know, my group has been arguing in this direction for months. I think we fully agree on this. The text which still needs to be approved by all Member States, with possible developments in the meantime, would indeed allow patents to be lifted on vaccines for up to five years in developing countries. Russia and China could not benefit from this derogation. Minister, how did Belgium position itself? Has it given the Commission the mandate to move forward in this direction? When could the final negotiation take place? As you know, it is not enough to have intellectual property rights; we still need to have the means to produce vaccines. How does Belgium intend to support the production of these vaccines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u21	I agree with this question. Mr Lacroix gave the perfect introduction. I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u22	"Madam Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u23	How does our country position itself on a potential exclusion of some countries from this patent waiver?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, during the pandemic, you must have heard very clearly that we will not be safe until everyone is safe. Those must not be empty words. I welcome the progress made in the negotiations on the temporary lifting of intellectual property in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. I am convinced that the compromise that has been proposed in the WTO can contribute to more equitable access to the Covid-19 vaccine. As you know, this is a proposal that still needs to be approved by WTO members. For your questions on the future of this process, I invite you to ask my colleague, Mrs Wilmès, who is coming to your committee next week. Although I welcome the progress made, I have always pointed out that it must be an en-en-solution. In the short term, it was important to ensure that vaccines were delivered to countries that asked for them as soon as possible. Belgium has made a great effort to this end. Meanwhile, more than 13 million doses have been delivered, mainly to African countries. In the longer term, however, I want developing countries to stop being dependent on charity. That is why I have always made it a priority in my policy to build capacity and share knowledge and technology. I was able to visit in February, with the Executive Director of the World Trade Organization (WTO), Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the project we are funding in South Africa: mRNA vaccine technology transfer hub. In a few months, the progress is impressive. Technology has been built and training and production sites have been identified, among others, in five African countries. The next step will be to train staff in this technology before they can start local vaccine production. Another important point I am committed to is to support the efforts of our partner countries to create a favourable environment for local production of vaccines. This is done by strengthening the regulatory framework, improving the quality of local production and training staff. To this end, we work closely with our partner countries Rwanda, Senegal and South Africa and with the World Health Organisation. Last week I met our partners, the WHO, the (...) and the Global Fund in Geneva. They reaffirmed the importance of having a strong regulatory framework and sufficient capacity for sustainable local development. The conversations are important. It's an en-en-story. It is important that the framework be adopted by the countries at WHO level while strengthening efforts to promote local production.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will ask your colleague in charge of external relations about the final deadlines for final negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u26	Madam Secretary, it is indeed an en-en-story. Your support for Rwanda, Senegal and South Africa to develop vaccines or stimulate the production process locally is very important. However, we will not be able to achieve this quickly, so donations of vaccines will continue to be important. Even if the patents are released, vaccines will still have to be donated. That is why my motion for a resolution seeks to bring about a systematic approach. However, it is not a miracle solution. It was proposed in this way, but at some point I noticed that there was no progress in the patent top levy. We must therefore ensure that we remain on track, including with the donations and your support to South Africa, Senegal and Rwanda. The patent top levy and the temporary lifting of patents have always been an important element for me. Our party is a little divided about that. In any case, it is a good thing that it has happened. At European level, too, my party members are actively working on this. I welcome the fact that a step has been taken and we will see whether further steps can be taken, including in the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u27	Minister, I share your conviction that there is no solution without local production, as close as possible to developing countries and particularly to Africa. It is a solution that must develop in the long term, since, contrary to what one might think, we are far from having finished with this pandemic. Madam Minister, I thank you, in any case, for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u28	The Belgian NGOs are concerned about their Congolese partners, such as la LUCHA, or Lutte pour le changement. They were very active in the run-up to the election process around the previous presidential elections, where Mr Tshisekedi was appointed. It's a well-known organization in Congo. In East Congo, a state of siege has been declared. A lot of activists working for la LUCHA are being arrested for being against martial law. In the provinces of North Kivu and Ituri, 13 activists have been accused of rebellion, rebellion and disobedience. They're being tried before a military court and the prosecution asked for two years in prison, just because they're on the street. That is becoming a reality in Congo. These facts have already occurred under President Kabila. I'm sorry they're being continued under Tshisekedi. There was a lot of hope that he would bring about another policy. La LUCHA is a youth movement that is very active on human rights and democracy. There are many intimidations and arbitrary arrests against this organisation, but also other organisations. There are arbitrary arrests and the arrests are also being held. You've been there. A programme was prepared to include impunity in order to end these practices. However, it is important that the fight against violence in Eastern Congo takes place within the limits of the rule of law, which is why I am asking. Has the Belgian Government informed the Congolese partners about the situation of the 13 human rights activists of la LUCHA? We support the Congolese government in the fight against impunity, but now the opposite is happening. How do we deal with that? What steps have you taken to address the reduction of room for manoeuvre of, in particular, Congolese human rights activists in the framework of our programme with the Democratic Republic of Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u29	The human rights and security situation in Eastern Congo remains dramatic. The proclamation of the martial law without the required legal framework has not made it easier. Human rights activists are arrested because they are on the streets to charge the automatic renewal of that martial law. That worries me. With regard to the specific situation of the activists of la LUCHA, our embassy closely follows the situation of those persons. She has raised the issue several times with the Congolese authorities. For more details, please contact my fellow Minister, Mrs Wilmès. She'll follow up on the file. As you know, human rights are a priority in my policy. We support a wide range of actors. Through our NGO operation, we support several Belgian non-governmental actors currently active in the Congo in this area. For example, we work together with 11.11.11 and with RCN Justice & Démocracy. They strengthen local grassroots organisations, such as AETA, which are committed to democracy and transparent elections. Another example is Radio Maendeleo, which disseminates information on human rights and democracy to the population. This prevents the spread of fake news and gives the population correct information. During my mission to Congo in November last year, I had the opportunity to discuss impunity in the field of sexual violence. In the coming years, we will continue to support around fifty Belgian NGOs in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We also work with the international NGO Protection International. This organisation offers human rights defenders protection and lobbies Congolese policy makers to ensure the safety of activists. In addition, we support a programme of the UN Human Rights Office in Congo, which focuses on transitional justice, the fight against impunity and the protection of human rights defenders. Through these various initiatives we bring human rights to the attention of Congolese policy makers, local civil society and Congolese public opinion. Opinions are divided, but at the moment we have a conversation partner with the current Congolese Government who, in a sense, shows openness to discuss this. We want to use this openness to take measures to improve the situation. We will, of course, have to follow this closely in order to be able to effectively implement concrete actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u30	Thank you for your answer. I have always given the Congolese Government the benefit of the doubt, because we wanted to get rid of the Kabila regime. I hope, however, that they do not make the same mistakes again, although it is becoming more and more apparent in view of the composition of the CENI electoral committee. Civil society, ecclesiastical representatives, bishops, who are an important civil partner in Congo and are considered highly credible, are also opposed to this. Now this problem is re-emerging. La LUCHA is an important partner of among others 11.11.11, Brotherly parts and Pax Christi. These are partners who are greatly appreciated for the struggle they have fought in the past, and are still delivering today, for human rights and democracy. Just as they are restricted by the current government. This must be followed with great vigilance and charged with the present government. I will also put this question to Minister Wilmès, if this is to continue permanently and this practice is to continue, because that is what it seems to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u31	" Madam Minister, the current context of war in Ukraine, which adds to the climate crisis and the health crisis, prompts us to stop once again on the issue of security and food sovereignty, especially of the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, food security is a subject that comes back painfully in the news as a result of the war in Ukraine. I sincerely fear that the violent conflict in Ukraine, which is a disaster for the people who are directly involved, will also be a tragedy for the poorest people living in other countries of the world, because of the rising prices of cereals and energy. I had a discussion with the President of the African Development Bank, Mr Adesina, about the dependence of African countries on cereals from Ukraine. He announced investments to help local farmers reduce this dependency. The figures you cited are correct, but they are mainly from the previous legislature. Moreover, the percentage referring to Belgian ODA covers expenditure on departments that do not fall under my responsibility. If we look at agriculture and food security spending in my department's ODA, we reach 13.9% in 2019 and 13.2% in 2020. For 2021, predictions cannot yet be made because not all expenditures have yet been recorded. Since my arrival, I have initiated the preparation of several bilateral initiatives in which I have called for a focus on agriculture and food security. The new portfolio for cooperation with the DRC that is being developed will take account of agroecology, climate change and sustainable food systems. In Uganda, a new portfolio with a focus on agriculture is also under preparation. The new portfolio in Mozambique will include efforts for sustainable water use in agriculture. As you know, a thematic climate portfolio will be implemented in the Sahel. Important parts of these portfolios focus on agroecology and combating desertification, with particular attention to the most vulnerable. The existing portfolio in Benin has been reoriented to add a rice-focused food sector and specific actions to better address climate change adaptation and mitigation. I can also add that Enabel has also secured several European Union funding to work specifically on agroecology and the sustainable food system in Benin, Senegal, Rwanda and Niger. This project reinforces Belgian bilateral projects. I have also increased the budget for humanitarian partners focusing on food security (FAO, CGIAR, WFP). BIO participated in the presentation of the reorientations in the strategic note "Agriculture and Food Security". In the BIO Action Plan developed at my request, food safety is one of the priorities. BIO will avoid investing in export-oriented crops. Moreover, investments in first-generation biofuels are no longer possible. Finally, BIO will increase its investments in small local agricultural organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-23-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic736x.u33	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. It is clear that the figures for 2019 and 2020 date, in large part, from the previous legislature. You're right to point that out. I hear the DGD's share. It remains well below 15%. I am sorry to repeat what I said about the previous question. We need the means of our ambitions. I hope you can keep pushing up to 15%. In view of the current situation, with one in ten people suffering from international hunger, the Ukrainian crisis, which is in addition to the covid crisis, which is in addition to the collapse of ecosystems, the climate crisis and the injustice of international trade, I believe that the management of hunger must be one of the main pillars of Belgian action. I would like to welcome the Accents note you made in updating the strategy. I am convinced that the actions you are putting forward are the right ones to address the challenges of hunger and to put agroecology at the heart of the debate. Not everyone will agree with you, but we support you on this vision. Some want to review European Farm to fork strategies or biodiversity. No! It is by moving faster and further in the revision of food systems that we will meet the challenges of hunger. Thank you for clarifying how these actions will be implemented in future portfolios. You are doing an enormous amount of work on the ground to implement these actions. I commend your determination, including in BIO's strategy. We come from far away and there is certainly a lot to be done at that level. I also welcome your work and encourage you to continue in this direction and to find the means necessary for your ambitions, trying to reach 15% as soon as possible.
