ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, today there are two topical debates and a series of questions on the agenda. I would also like to draw attention to agenda item 23, namely an interplay between Mrs Ponthier and questions put together by Mr De Vuyst and Mr Francken. Normally, an interval should be treated within two weeks of submission. That is why I propose that, after the two topical debates, we first deal with the interplay with the questions linked to them and then with the other questions, if there is still time. Can the committee agree to that? [[Applause from the left]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u2	Minister, several of these issues were tabled a few weeks ago, but obviously remain relevant. They aim to take stock of the delivery of weapons by Belgium to Ukraine. What is their type and which should still be delivered? I understood that the government had opted for a change in its communications policy in this regard. Nevertheless, can we get some details? How do you justify this change in communication? Is it coordinated within NATO and the European Union? Indeed, the Member States vary from day to day in this respect: sometimes they communicate, other times they do not; some pass on some details, others do not. It's pretty rough. I do not understand the reasons why we are no longer communicating about the type of weapons we are providing or are going to provide to Ukraine. With regard to the amounts, three weeks ago in plenary session, the Prime Minister had estimated the price of arms delivered to Ukraine at EUR 76.9 million. I would like to point out that this amount does not correspond to the amount mentioned in the Military Purchases Committee, which reached half of that amount. These were both lethal and non-lethal material. I would therefore like clarification on this matter. Some of these amounts should be reimbursed by the European Peace Facility. How much should Belgium and Belgium pay, respectively? And then, could you inform us about the height of the Belgian contribution to this organization? Finally, we discussed the M-109 howitzers. These, as we know, were sold to a private firm in Audenarde. The delivery and possibly the purchase by the Defense, to deliver them to Ukraine, were discussed for a moment. I wish I knew what was going on today. Has the supply of these shells to Ukraine been abandoned or not? At some point, could Belgium possibly consider providing other types of artillery systems, such as CASARA-type artillery systems, such as those being supplied by France to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u3	Madam Minister, the supply of heavy weapons by certain NATO Member States to Ukraine in response to President Zelensky's request dates back to the end of April. The question is therefore somewhat outdated and to some extent already answered in the special commission for army purchases and sales. Armoured vehicles, howitzers and Switchblade kamikazedrones have already been delivered. This morning we were told in the media that there is still a lot to be done. The US will supply their mobile missile system M142, better known as the HIMARS. That's a truck with a cassette from to I thought six rockets. Let me take a look at Mr Francken, who indicates that there are twelve. Who am I to correct him? The questions I originally submitted were largely answered. Of course, you can always give an update. I have a few more topical questions. In the media today we could read that the slope is being abandoned to buy back the M109's and deliver them to Ukraine, so the 64 armored haters who had received an update just before the sale. Why is that piste being abandoned now? Is this just because of the price? Are there any other reasons? What price were those M109s sold at the time? In the media it is said that these are sold to OIP, but unless I am mistaken it was to FTS. What was the value of the upgrade these howitzers received just before the sale? Was the selling price in relation to the mark value at the time? This morning I read a little to my annoyance a list of weapons we delivered to Ukraine. That list was communicated behind closed doors in the Special Commission for Army Purchases and Sales. Will we actually make structural arms deliveries to Ukraine, or has this been about it and the arms deliveries are drying up, as we will not deliver the howitzers either?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u4	Madam Secretary, Ukrainian High Command, President, Ukrainian Rada, Ukrainian Parliament, all colleagues are begging for more weapons and more heavy artillery to win the crucial battle for the Donbas. There is a very fierce battle going on at the moment. It's not easy. I have been in Vilnius for four days with a number of colleagues. We have, of course, spoken online there with a warrior of the Ukrainian army who is currently fighting at the front. There were also many colleagues from the Rada. Their call was unisono to give them more heavy artillery weapons in order to withstand the violence of the Russian bear, in order to respond in a good and adequate way. Belgium has already done a number of things, there is no denying that. We receive a lot of refugees and we provide humanitarian aid. We're trying to help people in the military hospital. We were already supplying weapons. Although not all of this has gone unpunished, we have nevertheless accepted our responsibility. At one point, there was talk of buying back M109-houwissers. They were upgraded and sold earlier. Those howitzers have been in pilots in Flanders for years and are not sold. Now, of course, there's a lot of demand. However, we read today that this will not happen. Madam Secretary, you are talking about one provider, OIP. I think there are two providers on the market. In an interview in De Standaard you said that there is one company and that this company has already sold them to someone else. I think there are two companies. I would like clarification on this. Have there been any negotiations with those two companies? If so, what did that come out of it? Why can't this go on now? Are there any other options in the field of arms supplies? After all, support for Ukraine in the coming weeks will be crucial. We must try to provide additional support. We are at a crucial stage in Ukraine's war against Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u5	Madam Minister, my question was also raised in response to the howitzers on which we could read more today. Around that file was the perfume of a company that wanted to make money from this in these difficult times. What is the point, Madam Secretary? The question may seem dated, but it is not, of course, because every day we are confronted with the harsh reality of the terrible conflict. The images continue to hurt the eyes and I hope that we will never get used to them. Despite the fact that we continue to call for de-escalation, arms supplies are today the harsh reality. Ukraine is counting on the West. We see a lot of reports about the United States and Germany on this, but sometimes they contradict each other. We must do it ourselves with the information we receive from the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. Where are we in the conflict today? What are the intentions? Can you give us an update on the arms supplies of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u6	Minister, the Ukrainian government has provided a list of weapons it says it needs. How is the delivery of these weapons at European or NATO level coordinated? Does Belgium have an overview of who delivers what and how do we ensure that there are no duplications at the level of needs? It comes to my mind that the original list contained only American material, probably written by the Americans themselves. What about today? Several NGOs and institutions are concerned about the diversion of these weapons to other areas of conflict and banditry. The Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC) points to a lack of transparency on the risk mitigation or monitoring measures that countries sending weapons to Ukraine have taken. The same applies to the guarantees obtained to ensure the protection of civilians in the face of these gigantic transfers. These NGOs are calling for the explicit addition of human rights obligations in the conditions for the sale of weapons or ensuring that any arms transfer contains sound monitoring procedures. What about these requests today? The arms trade treaty prohibits the transfer of arms when there is a suspicion of a violation of international humanitarian law. However, while Russian violations are well documented - no one doubts that there are - there are also indications of Ukrainian abuses. These include summary executions and ill-treatment of Russian prisoners. How do you position yourself in relation to this? What are the legal risks for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u7	Colleagues, on 18 March, 25 April and 6 May, the Council of Ministers approved the urgent purchase of military equipment for the benefit of Ukraine. Details of the underlying purchase and donation files were presented on 20 April and 25 May to the Parliamentary Committee on Military Purchases and Sales. The amounts for which reimbursement via the European Peace Facility is requested were also set out at this commission. Given the sensitivity of procurement and deliveries and the compliance with operational security measures, details of procurement, delivery and transportation have not been communicated to the public. That is what we have been advised in the various bodies, whether it be NATO or the European Union. For operational security reasons and to avoid making statements that may lead to escalation, we have decided not to communicate any more. The Belgian contribution to the EFF is calculated on the basis of GNP and amounts to about 3.5% of the total amount of the Fund. The acquisition and delivery of CAESAR-type artillery systems is not envisaged. The acquisition of the CAESARs for the benefit of Belgian Defence is still under way. All military aid to Ukraine is currently coordinated by a coordination unit in Stuttgart. This cell, led by the USA and the United Kingdom, ensures the smooth running of aid to Ukraine. At present, the demand for aid exceeds supply, so double donations are virtually non-existent. The initial list contained a lot of material of Soviet origin. In the meantime, this list has been extended to Western equipment and equipment. The transfer of military equipment was carried out in accordance with Belgium's international obligations. The transfers were accompanied by end-user guarantees regarding the use of the material. The official document contains the final recipient, the provisions on access to information on equipment, compliance with international humanitarian and human rights law, the provisions on alerts, the prohibition on transfer to third countries and the possibility of recovering equipment in case of an offence. Taking into account the armed conflict in Ukraine, it is difficult to carry out thorough monitoring. With regard to deliveries already made, the Defence had not identified any clear risk or knowledge that such weapons would be used to commit genocide, crimes against humanity, gross violations of the 1949 Geneva Convention, attacks on civilian targets or civilians protected as such or other war crimes defined in the international treaties of which Belgium is a party. In May 2015, DOD sold M109 artillery pieces to Flanders Technical Supply. They were sold in a lot with VBCL's or véhicules blindés de commandement et de liaison and a lot of remaining M109 spare parts for a total of 1,749,999,30 euros. During the sale, no conditions were laid down for the purchase by the Defense Department. According to the information I have at my disposal, the M109s were sold at FTS in the meantime. It is not possible to provide technical support from Defense, as the expertise related to the M109 was not maintained. The training of a crew depends on the possible foreknowledge of M109 capacity in general and the knowledge on fire support in particular. Depending on the position, the duration of training is one and a half months to seven months. Details on arms deliveries can only be discussed behind closed doors on the occasion of a parliamentary committee on the follow-up of the operations or in the framework of the special commission on army purchases and sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as communication policy is concerned, I mean that all our neighbouring countries continue to communicate on their armaments. It is true that France depends on days. There are days when she communicates and there are days when she does not communicate. In any case, the Netherlands shall communicate. In my opinion, we have the right to know what weapons supplies are. It's not provocation. Rather, it is a matter of transparency, of democracy. This can be done in a consolidated way at European level. In any case, today is very heterogeneous. The United States communicates a lot. Europeans communicate little or no at all. All this is not very consistent. We all have the right to know what weapons are provided. As far as the amounts are concerned, you mentioned 3.5% of the European Fund. The Fund now stands at two billion. If I calculate correctly, EUR 70 million is provided by Belgium for this Fund. Is that the number you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u9	That's 3%.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u10	That's 70 million. This is twice the amount of equipment that has been delivered so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u11	As far as the equipment is concerned, we cannot say that we are not communicating. An outline was provided regarding the fact that supplies were first made on the basis of available stocks. Then, having no more stocks available, we went to the side of our security and defence companies. The government then purchased the stocks they had at their disposal to send them. It should be noted that requests from Ukraine have been received fairly regularly and that the lists have evolved. Each time, we look at Defence, other services, and security and defence companies. At first, we communicated accurately. But, as was the case with other countries, we were called to order and asked not to communicate in detail. But we've always communicated on the main lines. With regard to the latest shipments, the exact number or type of equipment was not given, but the category of weapons sent was communicated, i.e. weapons heavier than those previously sent. The amount to which you refer has also changed somewhat. I don't have all the details in front of me. But know that shipments have been made from our own stocks, that purchases of equipment have been made on the basis of the stocks available in the companies to be sent, and that we will continue to do so if we have the possibility. In any case, if there are other demands and stocks available in our companies, we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u12	Madam Minister, the important thing is that signal. That is to say, this military effort will continue and be commensurate with the needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u13	It's our will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say the howitzers are sold for, rounded up, 1.75 million euros. Is that about all 64 howitzers? Perhaps you could look that up later? You didn't mention the value of the upgrade. I'm guessing you don't have those numbers on hand. According to my sources, the howitzers have been upgraded for 21 million euros and the two batches of 18 each have been sold to Indonesia for 9 million euros. Can you confirm that? If that is the case, those systems are sold at a price that was not even the price of the upgrade and which does not even cover the market value. I did the math. The upgrade cost about 328.000 euro each. The selling price to Indonesia would then amount to EUR 250,000 each. If those numbers are right, I find that a disgrace. That's throwing taxpayers' money and laughing at taxpayers' money. In a department with a structural lack of resources, this is very worrying. Then I express myself euphemistically. I'll ask follow-up questions to get these numbers. If this is confirmed, you can count on us to hold a debate on this in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u16	Madam Minister, what I do understand from what you are saying is that there are no heavy artillery pieces from Belgium to Ukraine, but I find everything else you are saying quite unclear. You are talking about a sale of 1.75 million euros in 2019 for x number of pieces of FTS M109-houwissers. Did you mention the number? I didn't hear that. I thought pieces had been sold before that, too. We really need clarification, Mr President, because that is really not clear. Those pieces are now sold. Is that recent or longer ago? I've only heard about OIP so far. Now we are talking about FTS. I know FTS had some. I knew that a long time ago. Were they sold to OIP, because there were only negotiations with OIP at first? They were supposedly asking for a far too high price. Is that true or not? We want more clarity and transparency on this. Then who bought it? Another partner who will take them to Ukraine? Who needs 40-year-old howitzers all of a sudden, albeit with an upgrade? They've been on the market for years, no one's interested and now suddenly they're offered ten times to a third partner who urgently needs M109's, probably to bring them to Ukraine. Did the Poles buy them, or the Americans, the French, the Germans? That's a very strange story, isn't it? Or maybe the Ukrainians bought them themselves? If we know they're going to Ukraine anyway, that's a big deal for me, but I hope they don't go to Russia. There is a need for clarification. I am not part of that committee, but the chairman of our committee is. I'd like this cleared up. What's the timeline? When was what sold and how much? 15,000 euros for a howitzer is peanuts. How'd that go? Was that a market price? Is it true that people are asking ten times as much as they are asking in De Morgen? You're not saying anything about that. I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u17	Madam Minister, communication is limited and I understand that there is a security aspect to it, but it is important that Parliament has a view on it. Even though the harsh topicality that arms supplies may be necessary today is not without obligation. Surely we should find a way for Parliament to see what is happening between our country and the battlefield.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is, of course, a balancing game that is not obvious, between the necessary and legitimate support for Ukraine in the face of the Russian invasion and the significant risks of large arms transfers to a region of the world. It is also in time that this is being done. It is not impossible, and it is even probable, that we will eventually find our weapons, or those of other suppliers, on other areas of conflict, to see on the territory of the European Union, in Belgium, in the context of great banditry. As far as abuses are concerned, you say that we do not know about them. However, several press articles, including the one published in Le Monde on 8 April, speak of "videos, some of which have been authenticated, showing Ukrainian soldiers carrying out Russian prisoners of war". Even the Ukrainian Presidency reacted to these videos, not denying them. Are they isolated cases? That's what the question is about. I encourage you, however, to strengthen as much as possible the monitoring and control measures, even though of course I do not deny this, and as you have said, it is particularly complicated in the context of the chaos that we can see on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u19	I'll answer a few things. I invite you to send me the attached questions again. Let us stop saying that Parliament has no view. I believe that Parliament has a view of what has been given to Ukraine, whether in the Monitoring Committee or in the Military Procurement Committee. Each time, this has been addressed in full transparency. There is no will to hide anything. It's for security reasons, but certainly not to hide elements. This was discussed in the ad hoc committees. I'm coming to the famous M-109. I would, but I still point out that this sale took place in 2015. I didn't say 2019. It's a past you must know better than I do. At the level of both companies, what has been brought back to us is that OIP had been mandated by FTS. This is not part of my work, but it is what has been reported to us. Defence itself is not involved at the base. It is the Ukrainians who come to the Defense because they have an interest in the M-109. That's how it happens to the Defense. At the base, it wasn't the Defence who had the hand about it. After that, there was a whole series of discussions, but when we got back in touch with the company, she told us that she had sold her M109s. We don't have to know who she sold them to, or how much. She sold them. That is for the part we know today. Basically, what interests us is, of course, that Ukrainians can have this material. I hear we like to create polemics that aren't. The main thing is that Ukrainians have this equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u20	Madam Secretary, can you clarify something? The howitzers, were they sold for 1.75 million euros? Dix ou un?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u21	It was 1,749,999,30 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u22	How many howitzers was that about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u23	I don't have that information. There is a lot of armoured command and liaison vehicles. There is a lot with armored command cars and a lot with remaining spare parts and (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u24	Let me ask you another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u25	Madam Secretary, perhaps it would be useful to know exactly how many were bought at the time. That number is important to find out how much was paid each. I hear it was going to be 15,000 euros. Is that right? Was that market-based? However, they have been sold and are going to Ukraine, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u26	To my knowledge, yes. But we have no details as to who they were sold to because it is the company's choice. For the details, you can rest a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u27	That's good news in itself. It is perhaps important that we offer to organise transport from that warehouse, so that we really try to help and still do something. I think it is important that we take care of this. I really insist that we should send heavy artillery pieces and that we should look further at what is possible to support Ukraine further. This is crucial for the coming weeks. We absolutely must continue to support our people there, or things are going completely wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u28	Mr President, Minister, on 7 April, the military intelligence agency ADIV came into play because according to research by HLN and VTM, he had purchased routers and servers from the Chinese technology company Huawei. On 8 April, the ADIV denied that it purchased Wi-Fi routers and servers from Huawei. The Chief of Military Intelligence, Vice Admiral Wim Robberecht, reported this. I have the following questions. Is the information that the researchers of HLN and VTM have brought out correct? What is the origin of the information from HLN and VTM? What do you wish to do about the dissemination of this information? Is it true that Huawei's ADIV or other services use Huawei equipment? I'm talking about routers, phones, computers and others. Can you say today that this is not the case with any Department of Defense? The ADIV notes that it does not use Huawei routers, but it may be that it uses other Chinese brands. That's just as bad, of course. If Huawei routers or other equipment are not used, which Chinese brands do the ADIV and the other services of the Defense Department use for their communication? By the way, does the DOD also have a list of high-risk suppliers with which it is not allowed to do business? If so, which companies are on this list? If such a list does not exist, do you intend to create or launch such a list? I would also like to inform you that we have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject. Can the DOD work with any data equipment supplier today or are there limits on this? Do you have knowledge of other non-Chinese manufacturers whose equipment may be bugged or controlled by other parties? Does the Department of Defense use equipment from these manufacturers? I am thinking, for example, of Russian software such as that of the antivirus company Kaspersky, which was banned in several countries, including Germany, but against which our government has not yet taken any steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u29	Mr President, Minister, Mr Freilich has already given the introduction. Important concerns for our committee are the quoted purchase of Huaweirouters and servers for our military intelligence service, as well as the cyber attack at the end of last year. That cyber attack, if I'm well informed, is still far from being resolved on the ground at the moment. Military personnel are still experiencing daily defects or problems in this regard. That is why I have grouped my two questions into one question. This issue has already been raised at a committee meeting behind closed doors, but I think it would be a good idea to give more information about it in a public meeting as well. With regard to the purchase of routers and servers, these are questions about the intertwining between the Chinese Communist Party and Huawei's corporate governance. Due to the Chinese National Intelligence Act and Chinese cybersecurity law, the business community has extensive cooperation with the Chinese government. We must therefore put every caution on board this dossier. We need to protect our state-sensitive data, because if they fall into China's hands, we're obviously a long way from home. I'd like to have an explanation on that file. I also have questions about the large-scale cyberattack on our defence servers at the end of last year. What is the current state of affairs? What about the damage? Which servers, data and procedures are still suffering from that cyber attack at the moment? How will you remedy that in the short term? Which timeline do you put first? What measures have been taken in the meantime to better arm defence servers against cyber threats? Cyber security is one of the greatest challenges to ensure our security, so I hope you have already taken some measures and will not just refer to the future. In the meantime, do we know more about the origin of the attack? What procedure is being followed to identify possible offenders? What consequences does this government link to an identification of the assailant? Part of this last question falls within the competence of the Justice Department, but I hope that you will also be able to provide an answer from the point of view of diplomacy and politics, which is defence-related.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, the risks of espionage via Chinese technologies are regularly making the headlines in Belgium and internationally. For many years, the Sûreté de l'Etat has been warning Belgian companies about the risks of espionage and surveillance. As my colleagues have said, information was released in early April on the existence of Huawei hardware within the Defence and SGRS IT networks. I must admit that this news was quite shocking, in the general context of the cyber attacks on Defence at the end of last year, but also when Defence should use protective measures in relation to this type of equipment. Madam Minister, I would like you to take stock of the type of equipment acquired, the quantities, the methods of acquisition (public procurement, OTC), the date of acquisition of this equipment, the reasons for Huawei's choice with respect to other producers of computer equipment. According to my information, a risk analysis had been conducted. What are the results of this risk analysis? Who led her? How have they been taken into account by our intelligence services and by Defence itself? This material could pose a risk of dissemination of information to the Chinese authorities, as it is known that the Chinese cybersecurity law obliges any Chinese company to cooperate with China's intelligence services. This data was already known at that time. The Defence has announced that it wants to separate itself from this material. What exactly is the situation with this separation? Is that the case today? Have any investigations been conducted to verify that the use of this material has not led to attempts to abuse? Have we checked whether data leaked from Defence to China? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u31	Whether it's about Chinese surveillance cameras in our streets or Chinese drones in the police force, the nerves are getting tighter and tighter, especially after the FBI alert. In America, President Biden has already intervened with a Secure Equipment Act, which states that Chinese equipment should no longer be used by public security services. Whatever happens, reference is made here to the story at ADIV. I have the same questions as my fellow Members, so I am happy to endorse them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u32	Mr President, as Mr Cogolati is chosen to chair a committee, he asked me to take advantage of this topical debate to ask his questions. Minister, what is the share of this Chinese material in the SGRS? How many in total do you have in Defence - so more broadly than in the SRMS alone? Was there a security screening on this Huawei equipment? If so, what is the result of screening? Have you received any recommendations or guidelines from Belgian partners, defence ministries or foreign intelligence services regarding the purchase of Chinese equipment, such as Huawei? What are your security instructions regarding the purchase of Chinese equipment from Defence, particularly in sensitive services such as the SMS? Have any other CPS issued guidelines for the purchase of this Chinese material? If so, were they also taken into account in the SMS? How do you position yourself against the risk of espionage and data leaks highlighted by many cybersecurity experts? You can tell Mr. Cogolati that I read his text well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the articles in the media concerning the purchase and use of WiFi routers of the Huawei brand by the SGRS are not correct. In the meantime, the Chief of the SMS has responded publicly to correct this information and confirmed that the service does not use these routers. An internal investigation is under way to trace the origin of that information. On the other hand, between 2016 and 2019 Defence acquired approximately 610 mobile routers from the Huawei brand, of which approximately 300 were still in service until recently. These devices are not directly connected to the military network. They were only used to create temporary internet hotspots via a 4G connection. I instructed the Chief of Defence to discontinue the use of this material in Defence and to replace it as soon as possible. The equipment used by the ADIV is classified. Therefore, no lists of material are published. The publication of a mark and type of equipment allows outsiders to verify information on the use and potential of the product concerned, which could jeopardise the safety of the service, its tasks and its personnel. The procurement of Defence equipment follows a procurement process. Each dossier for the purchase of sensitive material shall contain an analysis of the risks associated with the product, irrespective of the brand of the material concerned. In order to strengthen this purchasing process and risk analysis, I have instructed the ADIV to forward to DGMR an opinion on the purchase of sensitive equipment that may pose safety risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u34	As regards security aspects and the risk of espionage, the SGRS cooperates with the National Security Authority which issues or withdraws clearances, certificates and security notices at company level. This Authority has within it a service dedicated to economic and scientific activity. The data collected are part of the risk analysis of a product prior to purchase and fall within the classified domain. The investigation into the cyber attack, both judicially and operationally, is ongoing. In order to respect the confidentiality of both, no information can be disclosed at this stage about the potential actor or actors behind the attack that has hit Defence. In 2021, the National Security Council adopted a procedure allowing the allocation of a cyber attack, where possible and appropriate, to those who carried out the attack. This procedure provides for an exchange of information between the various Belgian security services. On the basis of the evidence gathered, a discussion is then held at the level of the National Security Council. The Committee then decides on the actions to be taken and the communication to be made. The attack had no impact on operations abroad, nor on the cooperation of Defence with its allied partners, for which the exchange of information is carried out through classified networks that are not connected to the Internet. The attack did not cause significant damage to the affected network connected to the Internet, but required the reconstruction of a large number of virtual servers. This operation was carried out by Defense specialists, with the support of industrial partners. Most of the services on the affected network connected to the Internet are now again available to all staff. Following the attack, Defense has taken a number of measures, such as the introduction of a more efficient IT architecture and monitoring of the ICT environment, to mitigate the consequences of a possible attack in the future. In any case, this cyber attack is evidence of the importance of a cyber component within Defence that I have made a priority since I took office. This is reflected in my policy note. At my request, this year's focus is on strengthening the operational cyber capabilities within the SGRS through the launch of a cyber command and the start-up of what must effectively become the fifth component of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u35	Madam Minister, we do know that there are no Huawei routers at the ADIV, but you still do not know whether these are Chinese routers. It is therefore useful that you state that you cannot make the information public. That is why I am asking whether we can get them behind closed doors. For me, it should not even be about the name or brand, I just want to know whether Chinese producers are involved, not only in the ADIV but also in the defence sector in general. After all, I understand that the DOD also uses Chinese computers. You say that until recently there were 300 routers or hotspots of Huawei in use in the army. You've now asked for them to be decommissioned. Is it true that you asked for it to be removed after the article had appeared in Het Laatste Nieuws and after the news on VTM, or did that happen before that? That is a very important additional question. Was it based on information that came out in the press that you decided to take Huawei's equipment out of rotation? I ask this question because the Security of the State or VSSE has already warned here in the Chamber in 2019 about equipment from certain countries, without mentioning the name China or others, because a number of criteria indicate that the government has strong strong control there. Businesses cannot manage their information independently in these countries, but they have to give up on demand from the public authorities. So the problem of espionage by China and Huawei has been known for a long time. So when did you order the DOD to disable those 300 routers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and the explanation on the mentioned purchase of routers or servers. Whether it be Huawei or other Chinese equipment, extreme vigilance and caution are needed, especially in our military intelligence service, where all kinds of sensitive information can be disseminated in this way. After all, our servers were the target of a cyber attack, the origin of which apparently is still unknown and the investigation is still ongoing. I hope that you will show the necessary transparency to this committee in this respect, given its importance in the current situation of attacks on the European continent. These cyber attacks will undoubtedly continue and the threat will persist. I would ask you to show the necessary vigilance. Huawei or any other company associated with China may not be discussed at all. Experts are extremely concerned about the intertwinedness of the Chinese Communist Party with Huawei, among others, but also with other networks. As mentioned in my introduction, the Chinese National Intelligence Act and cybersecurity law require far-reaching cooperation with the Chinese government. If our military security service goes into business with that company and possibly other related companies with China, that is not euphemistically reassuring at a time when there are constantly very dangerous cyber threats. I ask you to be extremely careful in this and take all the steps you consider necessary to avoid possible future attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u37	Minister, first of all with respect to the equipment of the SGRS, you tell us that it is not Huawei equipment. We've heard it before. However, sources to the SGRS tell me that it is indeed Chinese material. I would like to see clarity on this matter, rather than bottling in touch with the suggestion that it is another Chinese brand that we do not want to disclose. It is therefore important to know whether Chinese or Russian equipment is being used at the SGRS. In any case, I have before my eyes a beautiful picture - which I cannot show - of a SGRS team participating in a cyberchallenge, adorned with a great emblem of Huawei. This team was 11th. No luck! It's not very glorious for the SGRS. The competition would have been held last year. I'd like to give you the photo, if you're interested. In other words, there are clear links between the SGRS and Huawei. I would therefore like clarification of the computer equipment used by this service, even if they are communicated in camera. Then you indicate that 610 routers were provided to Defence between 2016 and 2019. It's really amazing. A risk analysis was conducted, as you confirmed. It obviously noted that this Chinese company was a threat, given the laws of its country. Despite this information, this material was used. In terms of security, this episode is once again evidence of a hallucinating amateurism on the part of the officials who organized this public procurement. When this case was revealed, there were still 300 routers left. You then requested that they be withdrawn as soon as possible. Has this been done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u38	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u39	You say, "as quickly as possible," implying that...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u41	Yes, but is it replaced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u43	Can we estimate that now no more Huawei equipment is used by the Defence? That's the question, though. When it is said "as quickly as possible", this must be done overnight, especially since if the supplier knows that his equipment will no longer be in service for a long time, he will try to make it profitable as quickly as possible. You tell us that the risk is minimal, because this material is not connected. But there is still one, since you felt it should be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u45	Are they no longer used?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u46	They're not, like I asked. I guess when I ask, it's done. After that, I'm not going to check all the cabinets for what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u47	You should!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u48	On all units? We mustn't exaggerate! We asked for it to be that way. That's all I can tell you. You can come with me and open all the cabinets!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u49	With great pleasure! I think it can be useful from time to time. Mr President, I see that my question No. 5 on the defence cyberattack has not been included, but the minister has responded in part. I don't know if I should consider that there was an answer to my question. It's not very clear. I will rest it but I imagine that the answer will be the same, that is, we still don't know or that in any case, we still don't want to attribute the attack last December, six months later. In the context of a defence policy in relation to this type of cyberattack, this seems to me to be a failure. I believe that the aggressor should be named as soon as possible and that he should be able to respond to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u50	Madam Secretary, whether the discussion on which router is used is an important discussion or not is not the essence for me. The essence is that this incident, this cyber attack, makes it clear that we are living in a new world and that the services must be aware of it. Today we must deal with the functioning of our services in a different way, because we live in a new world. I have a feeling that many people today haven't realized that technology can threaten our security and our privacy. Just yesterday I showed staff how to take a picture of anyone on the street with my smartphone and find out who that person is within two minutes, via a regular, public site. I can do that already, so imagine what specialized software can do today. I think that we should be aware of this, our security services first and foremost. Investment in the cybersecurity service will also bring benefits in this respect, because those people too may come into contact with this kind of thing to see how we can better protect ourselves. As far as that is concerned, we are certainly on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u51	Madam Secretary, very briefly. Have you ordered the 300 routers to be removed after the publication of the article in HLN or before? Was the article the reason for you to take that step?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u52	I don't have the date in mind, but if you ask a written question, we'll answer you exactly. I have to find it in my writings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u53	I don't need the exact date. I just want to know if it was after the article.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u54	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a government has a number of key tasks, and defence is one of them. Without a proper army to defend the country's interests, a country is a paper tiger with no teeth. I do not have to tell you that for years the successive governments of this country have used Defence as a means of saving money, as a key element of the budget. If there was any money left, it could possibly be given to the Defense Department, but otherwise we would have to save at least and increase the hand brake on defence budget. Others would take on the defence of our security. In the long term that is not only hopelessly naive, it is nothing more and nothing less than guilty negligence. For there is no eternal peace. Shifting power relations. I do not, of course, need to refer to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which has since been degenerate in a terrible war on the ground, on our continent, with all the consequences. It is an escalation of which we do not know the end, which has triggered a flow of refugees that was inevitable and therefore predictable, and which has caused a constant threat. It is a euphemism that it is high time to reinvest in our army. Of course, this must be done in close but voluntary cooperation with European allies. It is therefore high time for the so-called Zeitenwente, as our German neighbours suggested. My party has always advocated raising the budget to 1.74 % of GDP, the average of our non-nuclear European colleagues. In view of the current situation, which I have just outlined, it is, of course, long overdue. Over the last few days, together with a number of colleagues here, I have been in Vilnius with our Parliamentary NATO Assembly. When I hear what our partners are doing there in terms of defence budgets, we are sinking into nothing, even with the objectives you set out in your policy paper or initial plan, as well as with the communication made by the Prime Minister of this country in the media over the last few weeks and days. Your objective was initially adjusted from 1.60 to 1.54 %, no doubt under pressure from the Greens. At the end of June there will be a NATO summit in Madrid. That is a very much discussed summit, especially in view of the current war situation. Last week, during the debate in this committee on the resolution of colleagues from the opposition and the majority, it was often said that the Prime Minister could not leave for Madrid without a promise of 2% by 2035, or who knows when. It will be my concern that the Prime Minister will be standing there with his pants on his ankles. In the short term, our image of defence investment and budget will certainly not improve or be able to be adjusted to the needs of our defence apparatus. So my concern is not that of Prime Minister De Croo, who will have to tell us what he will be able to say, obviously under pressure from his Vivaldi partners. My concern and that of my group with regard to the need for additional defence investments is above all that our security interests can no longer be guaranteed at the moment. The adjustment of your original objective of structuralally increasing the defence budget to 1.54 % of GDP was already far too short, given the current security context at NATO's eastern borders. You have announced additional investments, bearing this in mind. It is true that we still have to get the precise content, at least in this committee. The press and all other channels have been getting that across for a long time, but we are 'but' representatives of the people and we always come to the last place in that regard. You have announced a number of investments, which, of course, we welcome, but, as we have said, we urgently need to make a structural move towards this NATO standard of 2%. As far as we are concerned, that is a minimum. As I have already said, a number of announcements have recently been made by Prime Minister De Croo, who wants to increase the budget to 2% by 2035. That's still way too late. This must be done now, as Germany, among others, does. Germany is working on this much faster, the Netherlands is still working on this legislative period and a number of countries ensure that this 2% is enshrined in their legislation. We believe that achieving the NATO standard by the far-distant year 2030 is too much of a policy of announcement. So the DOD's gonna stay hungry. I would therefore like to ask you, through this interplay, how do you reconcile Prime Minister De Croo's budgetary ambitions on the one hand and defence's needs to meet at least 2% on the other, with, for example, the statements made by Green colleagues last week in the aftermath of the plenary session by their group leader, Mr De Vriendt. How do you reconcile that with the needs of the Defense Department? If by 2030 the 2% standard will not be met by the government, and that is where it looks like at the moment what will be the structural budgetary ambition for our defence apparatus? How do you think our international partners and Defense itself will respond to the news that the NATO standard remains an empty box? Do you think we have been able to hear the statements of the CHOD on this matter, that our Defence will be performing with regard to the performance of the core tasks in the current, rapidly changing security context if the NATO standard is not taken seriously as an objective? An offer was also made recently to accept, against the will of Ecolo-Groen, an exchange majority to provide for the necessary budget increase for Defence. I am therefore curious to see what your reaction to that is. Apparently it was a one-time thing to take or leave. How will you communicate on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u55	Madam Minister, my colleague and group leader, Sofie Merckx, has already asked you, on behalf of our group, about this important issue during the last plenary session. If we list the announced investment of EUR 10 billion in Defence through the new programming law and add the investment of EUR 9.2 billion through the programming law of the previous legislature, then we will have a defence budget of 1.54 % of GDP in 2030. The Minister, who wants to score at the Madrid Summit, adds a little bit and announces an increase in the defence budget to 2% of GDP by 2035. This amounts to an annual investment of EUR 2.8 billion on top of the investments already announced. You will not be surprised that we are a cool lover of that announcement, as we think that a large part of our colleagues are caught by a certain militarisation of the minds. I would like to say that the current events in Ukraine encourage many policy makers to increase military budgets, but not so much to make the status of military personnel more attractive. We'll make that nuance. The People Our Priority plan is a good thing. We do, however, have a fundamental problem with the fact that NATO's thinking is being followed to further arm itself and invest in offensive weapons. This will not lead to lasting peace in the long term, but it will start a arms race. Furthermore, it will encourage NATO's self-declared geopolitical rivals to react. In the longer term, therefore, this will lead to more insecurity, more uncertainty and more likelihood of escalation, Madam Minister. Nor will we be able to use that money for the large number of other social needs that exist today. We have heard today that petrol prices will rise again as a result of sanctions against Russia. We could alleviate the suffering of the population by abolishing excise duties on petrol, so that it costs EUR 1.4 per litre. Apparently, they're different choices, but they're wrong. Much investment will be made towards that 2% of GDP, but we cannot launch an arms race. There are many other ecological and social needs that need to be addressed. I would very much like to hear from you what the position of you and your party is. Will the government agree to the target of 2% of GDP?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u56	Madam Minister, I would like to return to the debate in plenary last week. It was a long time before you could make your point, and in the end it was not clear to me what your point really was. After all, you have been denied the floor by the President. It was a rather bizarre scene. Can you shed some light on that 2 %? You said at the beginning that this 2 % is not a fetish for you, so it is not so important. It had to be about money to be spent. You said last week in an interview in De Standaard that you would like to go for that 2%, but that you couldn't immediately recharge billions in the coming years because you just wouldn't get those resources. You were right to point out that there is no staff for that. There is a lot of discussion in the government, but what is your position as Secretary of Defense? You are there on behalf of the government, but also on behalf of your party, the largest party in this government. Your party has a tradition of ministerial responsibility for the defense. What is your position as Secretary of Defense? Do you support your CHOD, which explicitly pleaded for the 2% last week? Do you therefore support the investment of 2% of GDP? If so, by when? I understand this can't be done by 2024, because that's too short a day. Is that by 2028, by 2030 or by 2035? What is your position as Minister of Defence in connection with the very urgent and important discussion on the 2% of GDP?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have inherited a department in which for years too little investment was made. Since the mid-1990s, the defence budget has only fallen. Too often, staff have been the closing point in successive budgetary exercises. I have always said that it is essential to combine staff growth, and therefore attractiveness, with investment in capacity. For example, with the STAR plan, I want to continue and implement the work on the reconstruction of human capital and the well-being of defence personnel. I have already started with this, together with the department, with the POP plan and the quarter plan that I have already presented to you. In the wider context of the crisis we have faced, the health situation, the floods, the Conings affair, the evacuation from Afghanistan and so on, and which we are now facing, such as the war in Ukraine, we must make these objectives concrete. That's why I create all the conditions to enable the Defense Department to grow. This is accompanied by the budget needed to implement this policy. The budget is the result of the political project, not the reverse. In this context, the STAR Plan is accompanied by historic fiscal growth, which has not occurred since the end of the Cold War, as the government has established a growth path for Defence that will reach 1.54 % of GDP by 2030. Of course, this route takes into account our public debt, which is currently estimated at around 23 billion a year, and the fact that our country needs to invest in many other sectors that are as priority as our security. I am thinking here of health care, social security and so on. However, you know that if the foundations are not solid, the house will not stand. Coherence, responsibility and credibility are therefore the key words that led to the development of the STAR plan. My objective is that, in the end, Defence will have sufficient capacity, including in terms of personnel, skills and infrastructure, to meet the new challenges of today at home and abroad, and to cope with tomorrow's crises and conflicts. I would remind you that the investments in capacity represent EUR 10.2 billion. With this envelope, I want to give Defense a much broader role and make the Strategic Vision coherent. In addition to the human resources aspects, I would like to emphasise in the STAR Plan the resilience of Defence through dual capabilities. Defence's tasks relate to aid to the nation as well as participation in collective defence and crisis response operations or even evacuation operations of nationals. This is reflected in the priority I have given to the acquisition of capacities that can be used both in operations abroad and in support of civilian capabilities. I would also like to remind you that the additional EUR billion, which has been obtained in the current geopolitical context, is intended to increase our level of preparedness and reactivity in the short term. Our safety is at stake. The current decline in the purchasing power of the Belgians is directly linked to the war raging at the gates of the European Union. This situation is putting pressure on our people. We cannot remain naive about this. The social emergency also means strengthening our security. We don't have to do one thing or another, we have to do both. Besides, as I've always said, I'm not a grade fetishist. The 2% NATO demands is not a dogma for the Defense Department. What matters is to identify the best responses to the needs. We need to do better and do more, taking into account our absorption capacity. I have always followed the logic of building on the basis of needs rather than providing a budget in the form of a blank cheque. Defence's budget needs to be gradually increased in order to enable it to recruit and train staff, improve infrastructure, order equipment and commit itself. Calm, determined and intelligent action, while ensuring the coherence of needs, is the attitude we must now adopt. By taking these balances into account, the effort for defence increases to 1.54 % in 2030. I don't suppose I should remind you that between 2014 and 2018, the then government didn't approve a fiscal growth path for Defence. On the contrary, then Minister Vandeput placed orders of equipment while savings were made on the general defence budget. And the recruitments to the lowest level ever dropped. The lowest budget ever and the lowest recruitment rates ever are at the origin of the current state of Defense. This means that the foundations need to be restored first, in order to ensure the necessary growth afterwards. I will therefore continue to work on these foundations and, if necessary, ask for additional resources to achieve coherent and effective defence. If the situation so requires, I will submit an additional plan in the continuity of the STAR plan, for a time horizon other than 2030. Anyway, at this stage, the implementation of the STAR plan is the necessary step to consolidate and rebuild Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u58	Madam Secretary, despite your long answer, you are still disappointing. You have not answered any of the questions as to what your view is on the Prime Minister's planned growth path to 2% by 2035. You have not answered it, except: I am not a figure fetishist; that is not a dogma for us. That's, of course, dancing around the hot stuff. That is extremely disappointing. As I said at the beginning, security and defence are core tasks of a government. In order to carry out these tasks, our defense forces must have the capacity to defend our territory. This requires more staff, which requires more budget, equipment, purchases. Smart purchases, no unarmed drones, for example, no ambiguity about the helicopters, no third frigate. If we can believe the media, it is in your programme law, which we are still waiting for. It is clear that the security environment is currently in full swing: from traditional to non-traditional threats. Hybrid warfare is one of the greatest challenges of our future security. You mentioned responsibility and credibility. Whether this credibility will be honoured in Madrid at the end of June, I have serious doubts about that. You know that we are a critical but loyal NATO partner. As has been said, the fact that NATO imposes 2% on our party is not so much the main concern but the fact that our security interests are not being served adequately at the moment because our defence apparatus is still under-financed despite your announced objectives. You say that, on the basis of the needs, you will see how the investments will be implemented. If the needs aren't clear at the moment, I don't remember. You also say that if the situation requires it, you will consider what additional plan can be adopted to meet the objectives in the long term. For us it's all too little too late. You can offer us far too little at the moment. That is why my group is tabling a motion for a recommendation, which I am sure the chairman will explain shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u59	Madam Secretary, you stayed on the plain in your reply. It was a bit of a CD&V response, on the one hand and on the other. I understand, of course, that there are still discussions in the government, but you did say very clearly that you are continuing the course of the STAR plan 1.54 % by 2030, and that you will carry out that plan carefully. You haven't really expressed your opinion on the 2%, of which you're aware. You also said that we need to re-evaluate our security situation and that we need investment in defence. However, if we look purely objectively at deterrents and the entire NATO budget, we are talking about a budget that is 17 times larger than that of Russia. If all NATO Member States were to go to 2%, we would be talking about a budget that would be 18 to 19 times larger than that of Russia. In terms of deterrents, this does not mean that much difference. However, I continue to point out that it would be a very bad signal to the population if an additional €1 billion per year were to be invested in military equipment at a time when the working population is seriously renouncing. I am therefore asking why we would invest even more billions of euros in Defence unwittingly, because we are going as sleepwalkers in the new arms race, where we know what we are starting, but not where we end up at a time when people are paying blue for energy. At a time when the government receives additional VAT and excise duties due to increased fuel prices, it chooses to invest additional billions of euros in Defence, while, for example, it could also choose to use that money to block prices and make people's lives less expensive. That's an important contradiction I wanted to give you. There is now a huge political commitment to NATO and to increase the defence budget. I think that is a bit of an anomaly, because throughout history Belgium has always fought above its diplomatic weight and has always strived for relaxation, multilateral disarmament and treaties on anti-clustermunciation and anti-personnel mines. Think of the Harmel doctrine, of the policy of relaxation, of all the de-escalation initiatives taken by our country in the Cold War, of the OSCE. We must make greater political commitment to a multilateral forum based on the concept of cooperative security, which does not define the security of a country at the expense of the security of another country. We must invest in this and not in the arms race, which will not lead to greater security, more lasting peace and greater security. The arms race that will be launched will be very expensive and inefficient. The champagne corks are blowing up in the arms industry and, of course, in a number of war profiteers and energy multinational companies, which are now making huge profits. The consequences of the sanctions are already disastrous, both at world level in terms of food safety and access to food, and in our country and in Europe, where the working population will suffer greatly from the sanctions if we continue to escalate consciously or not. I therefore repeat my plea for an active peace policy and not for us to be caught by the militarisation of the minds and the further incentives, which must make us believe that the conflict in Ukraine must be a stepping stone to additional investment in military expenditure, while I repeat that we must go more along the path of diplomacy. After all, we have now left for an action-response spiral and a sequence of self-fulfilling prophecies, in which ultimately the climate and our population, including the working population, will only lose out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u60	Mr De Vuyst, I think you are also denying that there is any responsibility for Russia. You seem to say that all responsibility for what is happening at the moment lies with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I must say, however, that I find it shocking, at three weeks of the crucial NATO summit in Madrid, possibly the most important summit of our alliance in ten years, that you cannot say here as Minister of Defence that you think that 2% of GDP should be invested in Defence within a reasonable period of time, or 2030, the deadline that I prefer, or 2035, the time limit that the Prime Minister chooses. I find it appalling that you cannot say this here, while your party colleague and former party leader, Elio Di Rupo, signed that engagement in Wales in 2014 with a view to 2024. You cannot even say that you will realize that eleven years later, so in 2035. You can't get that commitment out of your mouth. Your CHOD says, however, that it cannot be otherwise, that it is absolutely necessary. The entire defense apparatus is begging for additional resources, in addition to the STAR plan. If it goes further, then we will be the only one out of thirty or even thirty-two allies, Finland and Sweden will also invest 2% of GDP, without a realistic plan to achieve that 2% of GDP for defence expenditure. We have SHAPE in Casteau and NATO headquarters in Evere, so every day we reap the fruits of NATO alliance with thousands of workers and all possible economic return. In this respect, I find the absence of your confirmation shocking and deeply regrettable. You are now transferring that entirely to the Prime Minister. He's gonna have to get us a plan. I will question him about that this afternoon and we shall see what he has to say in the end. As a Minister of Defence, I do not expect you to be able to say that from that position in front of your department, I find it very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u62	Mr President, since you just mentioned my name, I would ask for the floor. You said that I think that Russia would have no responsibility whatsoever. I want to make no mistake about that. That is why I repeat that Russia is the one who is organising aggression against Ukraine. Russia has violated international law. Russia will therefore have to withdraw from the sovereign territory of Ukraine in order to achieve a negotiated peace on that basis. I said that our country and the European Union can contribute to this through diplomatic means, so that this war can be ended as soon as possible. We miss that too much. Progress on the path of militarisation, with increased spending on defence within NATO's strategy, will not ensure our long-term peace and security. On the contrary, this will lead to a greater arms race, to more risks of escalation. This does not serve the working population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-01-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic802x.u63	The President shall: At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister of Defence, - whereas the current security context requires a major additional structural defence effort, both nationally and within the framework of European and NATO; - whereas our international partners are also rapidly making additional defence investments which move the average of the European non-nuclear NATO alliance towards the NATO standard of 2%; - whereas our current objective within the STAR plan of 1.54% of GDP by 2030 is therefore well insufficient to ensure our commitment to our partners and, above all, to ensure our security; asks the government our structural defence effort is set at at least 2% of GDP and this as soon as possible." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the Minister of Defence's response, - Whereas the current security environment requires a considerable additional structural effort in defence, both at the national level and at the European and NATO levels; - Whereas our international partners are also making additional investment in defence at a steady pace, so that the average of NATO's non-nuclear allies in Europe is moving towards the 2% standard set by NATO; - Considering that our existing target set under the STAR plan of 1.54% of GDP by 2030 is therefore largely insufficient to guarantee our commitments to our partners and, above all, to be able to continue to ensure our security; asks the government to set our structural defence effort at at least 2% of GDP, as soon as possible." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and Mr Peter Buysrogge and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister of Defence, asks the government - to go to the Madrid Summit on 25 June with a growth plan for the Belgian Defence Department of 2% of GDP by 2030; - submit and discuss the revision of the Strategic Vision in the Chamber of People's Representatives for the NATO Summit in Madrid." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Theo Francken and Peter Buysrogge read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the Minister of Defence's response, asks the government - to go to the Madrid Summit on 25 June with a growth plan for Belgian Defence corresponding to the standard of 2% of GDP by 2030; - submit the revision of the Strategic Vision and discuss it in the House of Representatives before the NATO Summit in Madrid." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Hugues Bayet. A simple motion was tabled by Mr.Hugues Bayet. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
