ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u1	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, at one of the last committee meetings, you confirmed the lack of more than 300 guardians for unaccompanied minors (MENA) and you referred me to your colleague, the Minister of Justice. Indeed, finding an appropriate answer to this problem falls within the competence of the latter. In committee, the Minister of Justice, Vincent Van Quickenborne, indicated that the SPF Justice Tutelle Service was considering appointing guardians from the Ukrainian diaspora in Belgium for the 200 unaccompanied minors, knowing that 108 of them had already been reported to him. Today, there is an urgent need, as nearly 500 minors alone are waiting for the appointment of a guardian, a process that can take three to four months. Secretary of State, can you confirm to me that the lack of tutors will be on the agenda of the next Interdepartmental Conference? What action plan will you put forward to address the lack of guardians? What process has been put in place to reduce the wait time? In addition to the guardians from the Ukrainian diaspora, what concrete solutions are proposed? Of the 460 minors waiting for a guardian, how many are supported by a trusted adult? Where and by whom are minors cared for, without any other solution than the guardian to be appointed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u2	Madam President, Mr Rigot, I attach great importance to the situation of unaccompanied minors. As I have already mentioned on several occasions, the lack of guardians and the waiting period are indeed worrying. The MENA who are waiting for a tutor and who are welcomed in the Fedasil reception network are obviously accompanied daily by the teams dedicated to them. The next Interministerial Conference, to be held on 29 April, will be devoted in particular to MENA. On that occasion, we will not fail to address the issue of their guardianship. The Minister of Justice is already doing the right thing to improve the current situation, which is a very good thing. So I advise you to ask him the questions you asked me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I hope that the situation of minors will be discussed this Friday. It's an important subject. It is a particularly vulnerable public, which can therefore be primarily a victim of trafficking in human beings. It is essential to protect them from the start, to identify them, to help them and to provide them with the elements that will allow them to emancipate over time and become adolescents and adults protected in our legal framework. I know that the subject is not your responsibility, but that of your colleague from the Department of Justice. However, I have no doubt that you will be careful to provide some answers at this inter-ministerial conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u4	"Mr. Secretary of State, seized in 2018 and 2019 by two families having been detained with their children in the 127bis closed centre, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child condemns, in two recent decisions, Belgium for the serious violations of the rights of these children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u5	Thank you. "
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u6	Mr Rigot, the recent press release of the Minors in exile platform and the sentences referred to concern the maintenance of a closed environment. Accommodation is intended to be maintained in an open environment, which is quite different. Mr Rigot, I note that you have not been properly informed. The Aliens Office itself conducted an analysis of accommodation in 2014. In addition, every five years accommodation is also subject to an evaluation by the European Commission under the Return Directive. Accommodation is considered in reports from various jurisdictions as best practices. In some reports by the EMN, the academic community and the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, this Belgian practice is even cited as an example to follow. In the case of families seeking asylum at the border, they do not meet the entry conditions for admission to the territory, hence the decision to keep them in the places of accommodation. Each case is examined individually and I would remind you that Belgium is obliged to comply with national and international border control regulations. With regard to the reasons why some families are withdrawing from residence procedures and disappearing, I refer to the report of the Bossuyt Commission. In the 2014 assessment, an analysis was conducted to determine the reasons and timing of the disappearances. She revealed that these are very varied. For families who have introduced a procedure within the country, they do not wish to return to their country of origin or to another Member State of the European Union. They have family in Belgium and do not have the means to leave. The children are in school here. For families who have introduced a procedure at the border, they have family in Belgium or in another Member State. They fear a return even though the request for international protection has been rejected. They do not wish to return to another Member State under the Dublin procedure. As far as the moment of disappearance is concerned, the conclusions are very disparate. There are three trends: the disappearance shortly after the transfer to the accommodation, the disappearance after the communication of the organization of a repatriation, the disappearance after the negative decision in relation to the request for international protection. Studies of alternatives to retention do not reveal the existence of an effective alternative leading to return. The Office of Foreigners therefore carried out an analysis of the existing alternatives. The most appropriate alternative seems to be intensive supervision. It is for this reason that we have this framework with the ICAM - individual procedure in which the administration continues to work in order to encourage each person to follow the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. At some point, there is indeed a need to ensure respect for the law as a whole. I always say: I'm a legalist. But you also know that I am one of those who consider that, in any case, the detention of minors cannot be accepted. I also believe that it is important to ensure that return homes are not alternative detentions. I am still not convinced that this is the best answer, today, to succeed in a return policy, whether it is voluntary or, as is sometimes necessary, forced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u8	Madam President, Secretary of State, the Russian invasion in Ukraine has already forced nearly 4 million Ukrainians into exile. Even temporarily, we all hope, this humanitarian situation involves concrete and organised European responses for these war refugees. Concerted and coordinated measures are obviously ideal at European level. The European Union has, of course, already taken a number of measures, including the activation of temporary protection. We have already been able to discuss the matter. But we are faced with a global displacement of populations, which echoes the gloomy European events of the Second World War. In this context, European solidarity is therefore essential, in particular in order to relieve the European states placed on the front lines of this reception, such as Poland. To this end, on Monday, 28 March 2022, a Council of European Ministers responsible for Migration was held. The European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, is said to have tabled several proposals for measures, while nearly 850 000 Ukrainians have now submitted a request for temporary protection, for example, it seems, 300 000 in Poland and around 25 000 in our country. Mr Secretary of State, what proposals were under discussion at the Council of Ministers on 28 March 2022? What common European organisation has been decided precisely in terms of administrative and logistical support to the Member States and also in terms of reception places per country? Specifically, under what criteria has a hospitality plan been discussed or decided upon? The question of the possible establishment of national quotas would have been ruled out. Can you give us more details about the discussions that may still be under way on such a European distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Taquin, as already stated at the previous meeting of this committee, I participated in the extraordinary JHA Council on 28 March 2022. A broad exchange of views took place and the Commission presented a ten-point plan that sets out a wide range of challenges and structures. This plan is available in full online on the Commission's website. An important item on the agenda was the operationalisation of material and financial support to the European Member States. Material support is provided by the European Union Agencies and the Commission has provided more explanations on possible financial support. The importance of correct registration was stressed once again at the Council meeting. This Belgian point is also the first in the Commission's action plan, which proposes to set up a European registration platform. The Council meeting also addressed the issue of solidarity in the European Union, while the issue of the establishment of national quotas was not discussed. There are several reasons why the compulsory relocation of Ukrainians is not on the European agenda, but the main one is that the most affected Member States do not request it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. My question had been tabled before the Commission meeting. Therefore, I understand that you were referring to the discussion that had taken place there. In any case, I thank you for your clarification. I understand that this distribution has not been requested by the countries most affected so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u11	Madam President, Secretary of State, I am aware that this question has already been answered at the last sitting. I had tried to introduce it half an hour late since colleagues had already tabled it. I was very interested in taking part in the debate and that was refused. That's a shame because you had already given the answers on that occasion. Today, however, I am going to put it down because, in the meantime, a new element has emerged. It is now known that there are twelve times as many refusals for Afghans after the Taliban seized power as before. It is therefore worth having the debate again. In keeping with the current situation regarding Afghan refugees, the Taliban took over, and the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) decided to freeze decisions on advice from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), pending visibility of the situation. What has been the situation in Afghanistan since the Taliban took power? No surprises: violations of women's rights, violations of the rights of LGBT persons, attacks, violence, intimidation, imprisonment, a climate of fear among human rights defenders, persecution of journalists and fears for minorities. This is what the Taliban are doing in Afghanistan. There are no surprises about the policy of Islamist power in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is also facing one of the worst food situations in its history. Nearly 23 million people are threatened by the ongoing food shortage. Nevertheless, CGRA had decided to put an end to the freezing of decisions and to issue decisions that were, for the most part, negative for the past few weeks, despite UNHCR's request to maintain the freeze in time for the situation to be clearer. Mr. Secretary of State, why did the independent CGRA choose not to extend them? Do you support this new policy on processing asylum applications? Otherwise, how are you going to expel rejected Afghans to the Taliban country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, for the first time since the takeover of power by the Taliban in Afghanistan in August 2021, the RvV has once again given a substantive ruling on requests for international protection for Afghan citizens. The judgment states that there would no longer be an exceptional situation where the degree of arbitrary violence in the armed conflict is so high that there would be serious grounds for believing that a citizen returning to Afghanistan is in real danger of being exposed to a serious threat of his or her life or person. However, as the changes in conflict dynamics in Afghanistan are very recent, the RV points out that the situation remains unstable. There would be no information available to make a concrete forward-looking assessment. I would like to hear your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u13	Mr Van Langenhove, Mr Moutquin, I, like you, have taken note of the judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers concerning an inadmissibility decision of the CGVS in the fourth asylum procedure of an Afghan asylum seeker at the end of last month. The CGVS considered that there were no relevant new elements that could justify the need for international protection. The RV has confirmed that there is no longer an exceptional situation in Afghanistan, where the degree of arbitrary violence in the armed conflict is actually so high that there are serious grounds for believing that, on return, a person is at a real risk of being exposed to a serious threat to his or her life or person. The situation in Afghanistan is still unstable at the moment according to the RvV and given the lack of own investigative powers and the fact that the CGV has not heard the parties again, the RvV has destroyed the decision of the CGVS. It is therefore up to the CGVS to take a new decision on this basis. You also asked me what I think of this policy. I am not asked what I think about other decisions taken by CGRA concerning people from another country, whether they are Yemen, Eritrea or Somalia. In my view, it makes sense because it is the CGRA and the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE) that are considering the need for international protection and they are independent in their decisions. If the services indicate that there is no exceptional situation in Afghanistan, exceptional situation which means that the degree of arbitrary violence in a conflict is so high that there are serious grounds to believe that a person is in real danger of being exposed to a serious threat on return, then I, as Secretary of State, must respect that independent analysis of the services. This also applies, of course, when the CGVS or the RVV arrive at the opposite analysis. I am being questioned about the analysis of the services, which is similar to asking the Minister of Justice what he thinks of certain judicial decisions. I hope we understand each other in this matter. It wouldn't be good to set a precedent. It is up to us to trust these services that have accumulated years of expertise in this area. It is therefore not up to me to ask the CGRA for a freeze on decisions if the Commissioner-General has considered that it is possible to take decisions on the basis of the information available. It is at this level that the decision must be made. As you know, it remains impossible to forcibly expel people to Afghanistan. There is therefore no question of a forced return at the moment. The Aliens Office will analyse each case individually, as has always been the case, to see whether a voluntary or non-voluntary return is possible and whether an order to leave the territory can be issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Indeed, the CGRA is an independent body. It's an administration. I wonder who controls the CGRA. UNHCR says black and white in its guidelines: "We call on States to maintain the freeze on decisions." CGRA believes that it can end it. Who controls the CGRA? It will be asked in due course for a hearing in Parliament to try to understand this decision, but I find it rather problematic that a Belgian body does not respect what the UN demands and that there is no opportunity to listen to them or to obtain elements of a response. Afghans who do not want to return voluntarily will be ordered to leave the territory but cannot be returned. This is how we are pursuing a policy that creates undocumented people in Belgium since these people will not be able to return home with, moreover, all the risks that I mentioned in my question. We're going to create an illegality situation for people in Belgium. That is, I think, the stupidity of the situation. Finally, there was disagreement on the solutions to regularize undocumented persons, but illegality continued to be created. I find this not only problematic but above all ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u15	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The situation in Afghanistan is, of course, far from ideal, especially for women. But there are 40 million Afghans and we cannot simply adapt and open up our right of asylum to the inhabitants of a country where the situation is not ideal. That is not the purpose of the right of asylum. It's not a social mobility vehicle. It is not a system to bring all people from a country where the economic situation or the security situation is not ideal. I think it is a bit off the record that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are pretending that it is a choice to receive someone through our asylum system or to create illegal immigrants here in Belgium. That's not true, of course. There is an alternative, the correct legal alternative, namely that we accompany people who do not have the right to asylum, people who do not enjoy protection because, according to the correct arguments, there is not just a risk of exposure to serious threats to their lives or to their persons when they return to Afghanistan, when they return to either the country of origin, in the case of Afghanistan, or to the region, and to ensure their reintegration, of course in a humane way, in a guided manner, with the necessary support. It is best for them as well as for us. It certainly does not need to lead to more illegality if we are to apply the law correctly and forcefully. Quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, I think you have already had the opportunity to answer this question formally or not, either by the press or here, but it is important. On 24 February, the Council of the European Union decided to apply Directive 2001/55/EC on the question of the temporary protection of persons displaced from Ukrainian territory. I'm talking about "displaced people." The Directive and the Council Decision envisage different situations, thus entailing two schemes: - on the one hand, the application of such temporary protection or adequate protection to third-country nationals other than Ukraine, who may establish the regularity of their stay in Ukraine, on the basis of a valid permanent residence permit issued in accordance with Ukrainian law; - on the other hand, an option to apply subsidiary and temporary protection to third-country nationals. Mr Secretary of State, what protection does it apply to persons who fall within the latter two categories? Does the Foreigners' Office examine their file in order to determine whether the conditions for a possible return to their country or region of origin are met on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Directive and the Decision of the Council of the European Union? Can you tell me what instructions were given to the Foreigners' Office in respect of these individuals? What legitimate reason could he justify not granting them temporary protection status, like all displaced persons from Ukraine, in order to ensure equal treatment, even if their status depended on the duration of the examination of the conditions for returning to the territory of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u17	Mr Aouasti, persons with permanent residence permits in Ukraine fall within the scope of the Council decision if and only if they can demonstrate that they cannot return to their country of origin in a safe and sustainable manner. Indeed, the Office of Foreigners is examining the file on its merits and individually. In the Council's view, this is in this case a sui generis criterion. Therefore, the Office uses the European Commission's guidelines. The procedure does not apply to individuals with a temporary residence permit. If it is impossible for them to return to their country of origin, it is obviously permissible for them to apply for asylum in Belgium, even if the only reason why they apply is their wish to stay here knowing that they can very well return to their country. In itself, it is not very useful to make such a request. We all know why it exists, and it is not to leave a country when its own is sure. This difference is justified by the fact that an individual of Ukrainian nationality no longer has a safe country to return to. If an individual of another nationality cannot return to his or her country of origin in a sustainable and secure manner, we also grant temporary protection. If the individual can return safely and sustainably, there is no reason to grant him protection. Protection is granted to an individual when he or she needs protection. If this is not the case, then it would seem strange to give him protection. Temporary protection is used to assist displaced persons. Those who can return to their country of origin are refugees but are not displaced persons. Of course, it is important to help them take the next steps in their journey. This is why Fedasil is also examining ways to provide additional support to third-country nationals to help them return to their country of origin in the best possible way. Every effort is made to help every individual who has left Ukraine to return to his or her country in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers, but there is something that I do not understand. I'm sorry about that! You yourself indicate that individuals with permanent residence are entitled to temporary protection and, according to an option opened up by Directive 2001/55 and the Council of the Union decision, individuals without permanent residence may also be entitled to such protection. You therefore indicate that the Office of Foreigners is conducting an examination to determine whether the criteria set out in Circular 2001/55 - interpreted freely by the Office - are met but on the basis of which procedure? Until now, individuals, even those with permanent residence in Ukraine, are not allowed to receive an A card on the basis of the Directive and the decision of the Council of the European Union and cannot apply for temporary protection. On the basis of what procedure does the Office of Foreigners examine these criteria? If individuals are not allowed to apply for temporary protection and there is no other procedure, what procedure must be introduced for the Office of Foreigners to examine whether they are under conditions of safe return and in dignified conditions? This is the information to which no one has an answer until today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, this combined question about asylum reception in Hasselt has already been partly overtaken by current events. In any case, on 1 April 2022, it was not a joke, the Council of Ministers approved the extension of the Umami asylum facility in Hasselt. An extension of six months was approved. Is that the correct duration of the extension or were again modalities for further extensions included in the agreement? What budget is foreseen for this extension? What compensation will the operator get? Is this the same as in the previous agreement or were any changes made? Have there been any changes in capacity? Will the same nationalities as they have so far been taken care of? Now these are mainly Afghans, Iraqis, Eritreans and Syrians. Or the Hasselt reception centre will be used to provide shelter to Ukrainian war refugees. Finally, what prior consultations were held with the local government of Hasselt?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u20	Mr Toventers, on 1 April 2022, the Council of Ministers gave its agreement to the extension of the reception centre in Hasselt. The extension will take place in accordance with the existing modalities and will apply for a period of six months. After this, there will be no further extension. The planned budget for this extension is approximately EUR 3 million. The receiving operator will be reimbursed at a flat-rate daily rate, as with the previous period of reception, and the medical costs will be reimbursed on the basis of actual expenditure. The capacity of the reception centre is unchanged and thus remains at 125 places. I do not currently have any data on the exact future occupation of the centre. The reception will be used for applicants for international protection with different nationalities. The reception will not be used for the reception of Ukrainian refugees with a temporary protection status, as the initial public service mission also seeks only the reception of applicants for international protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I regret that the Hasselt reception centre cannot accommodate genuine refugees from war from Ukraine. I also regret that the Flemish interest has been proved right. We expressed our doubts when the Hasselt neighborhood residents were told that it would only be a temporary asylum shelter of up to 18 months. Now it turns out that this is not the case. Fedasil, Umami and the city of Hasselt have just lied to the locals. A new agreement has now been concluded for the implementation of the asylum centre at the site on the Genkersteenweg in Hasselt. After this agreement, however, a new agreement can be concluded, and then again, and so on. De facto, the asylum centre in Hasselt has become timeless. As long as you leave the locks of the asylum influx of economic happiness seekers wide open and a private firm can make good money from them, the Hasselt neighborhood residents will be able to get an asylum center split in the stomach. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u22	Madam President, Secretary of State, when you took office, you promised to take steps to prevent the removal from being made impossible by a manifest lack of cooperation. You also promised to work out a solution to the problem of foreigners refusing to leave their homes without legal residence. A cautious attempt in the middle of last year, in a very limited and well-defined number of cases, to apprehend illegal immigrants who repeatedly and manifestally refuse to leave the country at home for forced return, immediately encountered a Jet by Green, Ecolo and the PS. When I asked you earlier in this committee about a state of affairs, you stated that it was important that the government first looked at what steps could be taken. There was a number of hints that this would be for very soon. In the meantime, Mr Secretary of State, have you considered what steps can be taken within the government? If so, which one? Is there going to be a law that will allow the police and the employees of the DVZ to pick up illegals at home for return? If so, when? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u23	Mr Van Langenhove, I am still convinced of the need to find a solution to the situation in which, in the context of forced return and sometimes after several visits by the police, someone continues to refuse to open the door. It may be rare, but in these situations too, the government must be able to act. I must, of course, have discussions on this in the government first. You have often asked questions in the past, rightly so, about the closed centres and whether they would be there. I don't know what you were betting on, but at least there's been a lot of hard work. Those closed centers have joined us. That wasn't always obvious, but it was realized. Additional return escorts have also joined the DVZ. That was also a very important decision that had to be made. This was also the subject of legitimate questions from Parliament. There were also a lot of needs in that area. We have worked very hard on this too. That has now been realized. Same here. Such political discussions are, of course, best conducted in the government, taking into account the many sensitivities that are always there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, we must not only satisfy the government, but also the citizens of this country. During the last election, they gave a very clear signal that something must be done, at least on the rampant illegality in this country. Not only the voter's signal, but also the Bossuyt Committee stated that a law on entry to live is crucial in this respect, in order to achieve a sound and, as you yourself would like to call it, compelling return policy. However, that law remains out. You refer to a number of other realizations according to you, but I think they are rather promises. That doesn't make sense that there is still no solution to the law on residence. The talks within the government are apparently very long talks, because we are still not seeing any results on the closed return centres. They're being announced now, but they're not there yet. In any case, I hope that the law on residence will not be announced within a year for something that will be done in 2029 or 2030, because it is much more urgent than that. It is not a building that needs to be set up; indeed, it takes a very long time to build a building in Belgium, but it must be amended in order to allow our services to do no more or less than implement the law and guide illegal immigrants back to their country of origin. It is a pity that your coalition partners continue to block such a logical step.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, on the basis of the foreign decision, a foreigner may be required to take preventive measures to prevent the risk of hiding after an expulsion decision has been taken. In your reply to a written question of February 2022, you acknowledged that no preventive measures are being taken today, as the measures envisaged would not be useful in achieving the intended objective. You stated that the Alternatives Department for Detention of the Foreign Affairs Department will in future examine what alternative measures could be useful and effective and could be applied by the DVD. What's the status of the Alternatives Department for Detention on her investigation? When will the department be done with that? What possible preventive measures do you consider to be useful and realistic to counteract the risk of hiding? I shall now turn to my second question. Figures show that 41% of the expelled asylum seekers invited by a regional return office for voluntary return showed up for a conversation. It concerns 136 persons out of a total of 329 persons invited between October and the end of December 2021. How do you evaluate the operation of these regional return agencies? Have asylum seekers already returned following their conversation with such a regional return office? These figures are ultimately the most important, even more important than the number of people who respond to an invitation to such a conversation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u26	Mr Van Langenhove, I would like to say that the target audience of the ICAM procedure is not just asylum seekers. The assistance is intended for all persons who are ordered to leave the territory, regardless of the procedure preceding it. The Alternatives Department for Detention is currently in the process of being launched and focuses on the further development of the ICAM support, including through the design of work processes, the development of cooperation with relevant partners, training and recruitment of new staff and the organisation of staff in different regions. The department's still under construction. At the moment, most of the staff are being deployed in full time in the registration centre for the Ukrainian displaced persons, although fortunately we can now start to move a bit, as this influx has been reduced somewhat. Therefore, it is too early to evaluate the functioning of the ICAM offices at the moment. The gradual expansion of these offices will be based on a four-point evaluation based on the workload, number of staff, statistics and available points of contact. You also asked if people have already returned after coaching. It is far too early to give figures, among other things, but not only because they still need to be put on the spot. I would also like to point out that guiding the return takes time. Before you tell anyone that it doesn't work, you have to remember that nothing happened to these files in the past when there is a follow-up now. In the past a piece of paper was given and one had to solve it further, now there is a first procedure that consists in that who wants to cooperate is perfectly accompanied to return to his country as soon as possible. However, this does not mean that we should not also work on the other aspect, namely how to force those who do not want to cooperate out of the country as soon as possible. As the main alternative measure, the Alternatives Department for Detention or ATD is currently focusing on accompanying persons with illegal residence by ICAM coaches, who are responsible for guidance towards a sustainable future perspective. In this respect, the section therefore focuses on the impact of the above-mentioned ICAM support. In the long term, the other alternative measures will also be carefully examined. Given the circumstances, it is difficult to set a timetable for this. By these circumstances, I mean, above all, the work for Ukraine that concerns us very much. At a later stage, when ICAM is fully operational, there will be time and space to identify any other alternative measures for detention that may be useful and effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I'm looking forward to the evaluation. Of course, I understand that there are something more urgent at the moment, given the crisis with the Ukrainian war refugees, but we will certainly come back to that evaluation. You say it's too early for numbers. I have every sympathy for this, too, but we would like to ask for these figures to be kept separate, so that in the coming months or at the latest in the years to come, we can evaluate exactly what this form of guided return will yield. After all, we have to bet on many different horses. I am pleased that you agree with that, but in order to evaluate which horse runs best and to check whether guided or forced return works best and how well the ICAM agencies or coaches work, we must of course keep track of the results of the various slopes. I hope you will. We shall, of course, come back to this shortly, when the figures are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, the Council of State of the Netherlands decided on 15 December 2021 that the Dublin procedure with regard to Malta should not be based solely on the principle of interstate confidence. In concrete terms, this means that the Dutch State Secretary must inform himself about the actual detention conditions and access to an effective remedy for Dublin returners in Malta in order to ensure that the returnees are not exposed to inhuman or degrading treatment. What is your position on this? To which countries do you not apply the principle of interstate confidence, and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u29	Mr Van Langenhove, I do not share the position of the Council of State of the Netherlands. When deciding on the transfer to the Member State responsible, the Foreign Affairs Office shall conduct an individual examination and take a reasoned decision, taking into account all available information on the situation in the Member State responsible. A transfer decision, the so-called Annex 26quater, is subject to an appeal before the Council for foreign nationals' disputes. With regard to transfer decisions to Malta, the Foreign Affairs Council accepts the application of the principle of interstate confidence. No Dublin transfers are being carried out today to Hungary and Bulgaria because the Foreign Affairs Council has considered that the situation in those Member States does not provide sufficient guarantees in terms of reception and access to the asylum procedure. The European Union has a crushing responsibility to ensure that everything is done according to standards, otherwise certain countries will simply be totally deresponsive and those who behave well will suffer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u30	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, in the week of 4 April vandalists vandalized the building of the Foreign Office in Brussels. Through graffiti you could read among other things the messages All refugees welcome - refugees then perhaps widely interpretable - and Abolish Frontex. The President of Green Brussels, Mrs Deniz Agbaba, calls it damaging these government buildings and threatening officials grassroots activism. The Vice-President of the Green Group also dismissed this vandalism as something foolish, as something that can best be overlooked. Do you know which group is responsible for this vandalism? Are there any other cases of vandalism known to the buildings of your services this year? If so, can you explain this further? Is the position of Mrs Deniz Agbaba and of the Vice-President of the Green Government shared by the Green Government? Have you discussed this and what is the position of those government members?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u32	Mr Van Langenhove, I have already clearly expressed my position on this issue on social media. We cannot tolerate such actions at all. I understand that some on social media indicate that this is the way to make a point. I was always taught that in a civilized democracy one can make one's point with words and not by plaguing buildings or trying to make the operation of an administration impossible. The administration is doing a very good job, by the way. There is a correct and humane migration policy. I invite the people who wrote the building to engage in the conversation with the staff of the Foreign Office and to listen and see what work is being done there, rather than relying on their own vision of the world, a vision on which we could also have a long debate. For the time being, it is still unclear which group is responsible for this action. I hope that this can be clarified and that those involved will be sanctioned. Fortunately, no other such cases have been identified in my services this year, because it is problematic if there are several such cases. I therefore hope that there will be strict action. In a democracy, everyone must be able to make their voices heard. That is why we have a consistent dialogue with various organisations. For example, we have listened to many different opinions for the migration code. It is interesting to know someone else's opinion, for which I do not have to agree. I hope others will have the conversation in a similar way, with words. I implement the new policy together with all coalition partners. We are taking great steps with this government towards a transparent migration policy. For the rest, everyone is free to have an opinion on activities taking place. Public opinion also has a very clear opinion on graffiti. I do not think that many people regard graffiti as grassroots activism, but of course I cannot speak for the whole of public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You have, as CD&Vers can do very well, skilfully biked around the third point of my question. I asked very clearly whether the position of the Vice-President of the Green Group and the President of the Brussels Green Section, given that Green is a government party, is shared by the members of the Green Party, namely Petra De Sutter and Tinne Van der Straeten. I wonder if they agree with that view. I have heard that this has already been discussed and I wonder whether these government members are disassociating themselves from the Vice-President of the Green Group and the President of the Green Group in Brussels. I think it is important for people to know whether or not government members approve such vandalism on government buildings, such indirect threats to civil servants. It's up to the citizens to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u34	I will close the incident here, and we shall now turn to the question of Mr Van Langenhove's claim of solidarity for buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u35	Silence sometimes says more than an answer. I can only assume that members of the government will approve Mrs De Sutter and Mrs Van der Straeten such vandalism on government buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u36	That really isn't a proper representation. I'll close your reply. Mr Van Langenhove, as President, I have not interrupted you, even though you have made gratuity accusations to ministers of my party in the government, and the Secretary of State has made it clear that there is no problem in the government in this matter. When you are given the right to speak for another question, you quote all kinds of things about it and all kinds of insinuations from you. I don't appreciate that. Please keep to the question you have put. I closed the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u37	I can only conclude from that that you absolutely disagree with the position of your Vice-President and the President of the Green Group. Thank you for clarifying that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u38	You must not take any interpretations from what I say or not say. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u39	You do not have the right to close the incident, so to speak, while I am still replying to the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u40	Your reply was terminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u41	As has been known for some time, the Brussels-Capital Region suffers from a scourge of solidarity of claims of vacant buildings by groups of people without legal residence. For example, the former KBC building near Thurn & Taxis has been occupied by some 150 illegal immigrants for months. Because the building will be transformed into a residential project, those illegals had to leave the building by 8 April at the latest. However, more than half did not respond to this, leaving the building unavailable. In addition to the solidarity or unsolidarisation of the KBC building, do you know of any other occupation? If so, can you explain this further? What effective short-term measures will you take, together with Mrs Verlinden and possibly the Brussels-Capital Region, to put an end to the illegal occupation, given that you can barely get people without legal residence out of the country and your closed return centres clearly lack capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u42	Mr Van Langenhove, the succession of cracked buildings is obviously not within my competence. When I am contacted by fellow ministers or by local authorities on this matter, I am also always prepared to help with the aspects which do fall within my competence, to provide specific information on existing residence procedures and, of course, to support a return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, it seems to me that much more is possible than is being done today. If we do not take concrete and firm action, the phenomenon will continue to occur, which is unworthy of the capital of our country and the centre of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u45	Mrs Platteau, the Frontex Management Board already organised a number of extraordinary meetings in this dossier. Belgium was, as always, represented there by the federal police, which falls within the competence of Minister Verlinden. The meetings are prepared by a number of actors, including the relevant policy cells of the Interior and of Asylum and Migration. The Management Board's meetings have so far dealt only with procedural aspects. The dossier has therefore not yet been discussed in substance. At present, the political authorities do not have access to the actual report. In this file, the Management Board acts as disciplinary authority, which entails the responsibility of ensuring that the proceedings are conducted correctly and that the rights of the defence are respected. The possible consequences to be linked to the report, including possible disciplinary measures, will be discussed at a later stage by the Management Board. This is done in accordance with the usual procedures. You know that, on the basis of Article 46 of the Frontex Regulation, Frontex can suspend or terminate funding in whole or in part in cases of serious violations of fundamental rights or of international obligations. This happened last year, for example, for Hungary. That is where we are at the procedural stage. The file will be followed up like all the others. At a later stage, we will probably make further statements about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u46	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Questions have already been asked about OLAF's report before the Easter holiday. However, I could not be present at the time. In the meantime, do the political authorities have access to that important report, some of which has already been leaked into the press? Der Spiegel has published an article about it with very serious accusations against Frontex's top man, Leggeri. It says that there is photo and footage that proves that the Greek Coast Guard is doing pushbacks and that this is actually being swept under the mat. Similarly, those responsible for ensuring respect for human rights were apparently not informed, although this is the intention of the procedure envisaged for the operation of Frontex. It is very serious accusations, isn't it? Things are being swept under the mat. We already know that transparency at Frontex is a major problem. In response to my motion for a resolution against pushbacks, we invited Frontex's top man to our committee. However, he did not wish to comment on our invitation to come to the Chamber to discuss Frontex's approach and the accusations made against Frontex regarding pushbacks. That says something about this man, also given the way he deals with laws and democracy. If I have understood your answer correctly, there is still no access to that report. Are those meetings prepared within the Management Board? I asked the Minister of the Interior if she had consulted the Belgian representatives on the Management Board. Based on your reply, a disciplinary procedure may be initiated following a thorough investigation of the allegations contained in OLAF's report. I believe that it is important to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, in mid-April the British Government announced the signing of an agreement with Rwanda for a pilot project on asylum. In concrete terms, this agreement would initially cover single young men. In doing so, it is intended that the asylum procedure should be dealt with in Rwanda in this case. Anyone who turns out to be entitled to asylum can, of course, get it, but in the African country concerned and no longer in Britain itself. The underlying motivation for this approach is to break the business model of criminal smugglers. Mr Secretary of State, how do you and the Belgian Government judge the British initiative? Do you think that this initiative could provide some of the solution to the problem of transit migration, which this country is also facing? Will you contact the British Government to obtain further information? Or do you or the Belgian Government reject this initiative in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u48	Mr Van Langenhove, European migration policy is a kaduuk. I've said that a few times. Nor do I intend to change my opinion when people see what is happening at European level. As a result, more and more countries are seeking questionable alternatives. Last year Denmark made a similar proposal. I haven't seen any performance of that. Now we also see the United Kingdom communication. The closure of an MOU with Rwanda does not yet say anything about its practical impact and its feasibility. What are the chances that they will actually be able to put this into practice? It will only be clear when the scheme is applied in concrete cases and examined by a British court. That's not unimportant either. Only then will we know the answer to this question. As you know, I am also sceptical about the feasibility of offshore processing outside the EU. The big question is why a third country would be prepared to take over the responsibility of European countries and not only to take over and screen refugees and migrants, but also to continue to receive them. That is the United Kingdom's proposal. A high price has to be paid for this, making it also subject to blackmail. After all, what is the price? What's the price on Monday? What will the price be on Tuesday? What will the price be on Saturday? There is a kind of trafficking in asylum seekers about which moral questions can be asked. It is also a matter of purely negotiation. Externalisation also exploits the vulnerability of the overburdened developing countries and refugees. We all have a responsibility, not Europe alone. It is well known that more than 90% of all refugees remain in the region of their country of origin, so it is important to support reception in the region. That is one of the reasons for my visit to Turkey: I wanted to see how the refugees from neighbouring Syria have been dealt with there. The greatest impact of the agreement is likely to be its highly dissuasive effect on the choice of the United Kingdom as an asylum destination. As the United Kingdom is no longer an EU Member State and is opt-out in Denmark, they have the opportunity to do dissuasive communication. I am really asking myself whether that is the model we want to be on. I've given you some reasons why not. By expunging our asylum responsibilities and shifting them elsewhere, we are avoiding our international obligations. I believe that other countries also have international obligations. I have said a few times that it is also an international obligation for a country to take back its people if they are not supposed to be here. That goes in both directions. I think there will be some kind of waterbed effect among countries, as long as there is no discussion at international level with regard to the countries of origin. This brings me to my most important point. I believe, above all, in another European model, in which we oblige countries to do what is necessary. That's what it's about for a piece about this international sign. Some countries do not cooperate, because if someone is illegally staying in Belgium or another European country, he may be working in the black and can send some money to his country of origin. Then why should they cooperate in the return of these people? It is therefore about visa sanctions and trade agreements with certain countries. In this respect, the European Union must act much more strongly. We have made far too little use of the stick and we can use the root more wisely. We must look at the countries with which we conclude certain agreements in order to strengthen them and ensure that people in the region can develop a future, but we must also consider which countries do not really have an excuse. They must therefore be properly sanctioned. That's where the solution lies. In this way we will not be blackmailed and we will not only look at the perhaps questionable models that others are working on. After all, today's reality is at least as cynical as the policy some propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u49	I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that I agree with a number of broad lines of your reply. Europe's migration policy is indeed kaduuk. I can only observe that countries such as Britain and Denmark are thinking out of the box in order to find a solution, apart from the frighteningly slow European Union which is doing nothing. You have also raised a number of practical and legal difficulties which may make the feasibility of this proposal somewhat difficult. However, when it comes to the principle itself, I do not see any counter-arguments. In particular, I was waiting for your alternative to restore the kaduke European migration policy. I am glad that a number of alternatives have emerged at the end of your reply. We are talking about visa sanctions and trade agreements to be used. Both the root and the stick must be used solidly and concretely. In that respect, we still see far too little. You agree, but you are also partly responsible. You are also sitting at the table with the European migration ministers and EU Secretary of State. I hope that progress will finally be made there. Now that Corona can no longer be used as an excuse, we must at last make progress, both in terms of carrot and stick, but also in terms of betrayal. The announcements by Denmark and Great Britain have a particularly dissuasive effect. However, nothing prevents us from taking steps which may, in the first instance, have a deterrent effect and will only have a practical effect in the second instance. However, these are all useful steps to restore the kaduke European migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, both in the government agreement and in the presentation of your first policy paper, it was stated that the accelerated implementation of the famous master plan on closed return centres would be pursued. However, it was not long before Secretary of State responsible for the Buildings Regie, Mathieu Michel, stated that the announced new return centres would not be there before the end of this legislature. At the end of last month, we learned through the press that there was an agreement in the government on the construction of three closed centres and an additional departure centre, which would lead to capacity going to 1,145 places, which you called a real milestone. If we were properly informed, the seats wouldn't be for immediate. The procedure for Steenokkerzeel would have started by now, while the construction of three closed centers in Jumet, Zandvliet and Jabbeke is planned between 2027 and 2029. Can you confirm that data? It is not the first time that a drastic increase in capacity in closed return centres is envisaged. The Master Plan on Closed Return Centres, adopted in 2017, already foreseen that the capacity in those centres would be increased to some 1,150 places by the end of 2020 at the beginning of 2021. As we know, we're miles away from that. That is, of course, not just your responsibility, but a shared responsibility. What guarantees do you give that your plan will actually be implemented this time, contrary to previous times, when your predecessors made promises that were immediately broken? There is talk that you wanted more places of your own, 470 in total, but that driving your loyal coalition partner Green eventually became only 344. Can you confirm that? I'd like some explanation. Finally, since the realization of your announcements will not be immediate and there is already a need for additional capacity, are you willing to work on temporary centres for forced return by thinking out of the box?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u51	Mr Van Langenhove, it is not the first time that new closed centres have been announced, but it is the first time that a call for tenders has been launched immediately. For example, the file of the departure centre has already been started with regard to the allocation of its construction to a construction consortium. The other projects are currently being prepared administratively by my services and the Directorate of Buildings. Since the complete procedure for the implementation of such infrastructure has been in our country for some five years, the years you mentioned are a realistic estimate, except for unexpected factors that may appear in the construction process. I think it's important to indicate that. In the past people beat themselves to death and claimed that what they had announced would have been realized the year after. Well, I haven't seen many buildings built in Belgium in a year. It's always nice to be ambitious, but it's even more fun to actually realize things and not to leave people disappointed. The government has also made clear budgetary commitments for the implementation of the projects. In addition to communication and planning, we also need a budget. For the master plan concerning the closed centres, to which you refer, this was not yet the case. That too is a big difference from the past, because with that there is a guarantee that the centres will indeed be there. The decision on the final increase in capacity is the result of political discussions in the government on the basis of the information and analyses provided by my administration. These discussions took place with an open mind and in an atmosphere of confidence, which was not always evident to everyone in view of the views of the parties on closed centres. The first was the balance between the existing plans and the search for additional synergies between the centres and the need to improve living conditions in the centres. Finally, in addition to the capacity already promised by the previous government, it was decided to create another 50 additional places in the departure centre. What that means for the future and whether there will ever be a further increase in capacity is, again, depending on the needs at the time. As I have tried to make clear to you a few times, the creation of temporary centres also requires specific infrastructure. I am in no way opposed to this, but it is important to have specific sites available and they are not immediately available. My services have already investigated a few alternatives in the past. We were talking about a boat in committee, as you also mentioned. I am, of course, open to such opportunities, but they are not available today. It is important not to make promises that cannot be fulfilled. In any case, this idea can count on my support to strengthen the policy of forced return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for answering yet another question. You're saying a call for tenders was made right away. It is, of course, somewhat relative, since the dossier has been dragging on for some time, even under your responsibility. As far as the slow progress in such matters is concerned, a problem which is even more acute in Belgium than in other countries, your government is also responsible for this. You have been given a term of office in order to remove certain thresholds and to achieve administrative simplification. Let us also move forward on that issue, which is actually outside the scope of the committee here. You say that enlargement has taken place on the basis of an analysis of services. You have given a beautifully overflowing answer about the political reality of a coalition with different political families. However, let us be honest, the Foreign Affairs Service has been begging for almost ten years to double the capacity of the closed return centres at least. The small increase in capacity is therefore actually a compromise. The full increase has not been achieved by pressure from left-wing, green or red coalition partners. The analysis of the service is also very different from the final compromise. We welcome the increase, but it should have been there for a long time and it should have been much bigger. With regard to alternative or temporary closed return centres, there are, of course, practical difficulties and infrastructure needs to be provided. However, you have been given an entire legislature, you have a team and a broad government to look for it. Are you sure that's what you're looking for? I don't think so, because that solution would once again run into the njet of some of your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, a total of 5,340 checked returns last year, some of which are well below 8,700 people returning in 2019. Of course, this also has to do with the corona restrictions. In this context, it is remarkable to note that the return in 27% of the cases could not continue due to the fact that the person concerned refused a PCR test, which makes it possible to refer to a deliberate strategy to prevent the return. In the meantime, there are at least three countries in Europe, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland, where there is the possibility to take a PCR test under duress. When I questioned you earlier in committee about this issue, you said that you were working on a similar model for which the appropriate measures would be presented to the Council of Ministers in the very near future. In the meantime, is there also the possibility in Belgium to carry out a PCR test under duress in these cases? If so, is this possibility already being used? If not, why not? By when can we expect a concrete result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u54	Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, I am effectively in favour of a mandatory PCR test. The services work very hard with my cabinet on a way to force a stranger who refuses the test thoroughly and thus blocks removal to undergo a PCR test. It remains a very sensitive matter. It would be the first time a stranger has been subjected to a mandatory medical examination. Legal as well as practical considerations need to be carefully considered on how this can be imposed. Certainly in our country there are a number of aspects that make it impossible to simply take over the system of another country. It is therefore important to develop this legally and in practice. We choose to conduct the investigation thoroughly, which takes time. In any case, an amendment of the law will be necessary in order to impose this test. As soon as the necessary investigations are completed, I will submit a draft law. I would like to thank the people of the Foreign Affairs Service and the Legal Service who are working hard on this for the many efforts they have made. I hope to be able to make progress in the short term, because certain countries and a number of foreigners are trying to make it difficult to reach a return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u55	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answer, although I must say that I am somewhat disappointed. At the start of your term of office, you said that we can pay you on the basis of the return figures. There is now a very concrete example of what you can do to boost the return rates very quickly. However, I note that your answer to my question today is almost the same as your answer when I asked you the same question earlier. I believe that your services are working hard on solutions, thank you very much, but I wonder if it is not possible to provide a time frame, a target date by when that solution should be ready, so that results can be achieved. In particular, the Foreign Affairs Office is waiting for such a solution. I hope that will be done in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, after 12 questions on migration, I also have a question on another important issue. Last week the federal government launched the campaign I have impact! to encourage citizens to consume less energy. On the website Ikhebimpact.be tips are given, for example cooking with the microwave oven and limiting the speed on the motorway to a maximum of 100 km/h. On the recently launched government website it is said that 11 million little bits make a big difference. I have two specific questions on this. Will you replace the private chef on your cabinet with a microwave? Will the other ministers and secretaries of state who have a private cook do this? Will you and the other ministers with a private driver drive up to 100 km/h on the motorway?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u57	Mr Van Langenhove, I want to thank you for your efforts to get the campaign I have impact! to bring to your attention everywhere. This campaign was developed around the first pillar of the Trias Energetica. I'm sure you're familiar with this. I will not go into the three-step strategy any further. It goes without saying that any energy consumption that is avoided means profit, first and foremost for the consumer. In addition, it also provides less revenue for the seller of the energy. It is therefore not absurd to think that this will reduce Russian energy revenues. What concrete impact this will have on energy expenditure will need to be clarified by colleagues from Defence, Energy and Foreign Affairs. I can also reassure you that the kitchen of my cabinet is equipped with a microwave oven, like most kitchens in the workplace. I assume that the kitchens of other cabinets and parliamentary offices also have a microwave oven. But I'm not running that investigation. Our driver has a long-standing track record and he can undoubtedly drive in an economical manner. By the way, the eco-mode in the car is also helping. I hope I have sufficiently informed you of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to summarize your answer. The government is asking people to drive up to 100 kilometers an hour and use the microwave oven to cook. However, she continues to use private drivers and cooks, so not the microwave oven, and does not stick to that 100 kilometers per hour on the car strade. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, the UN refugee organisation has instructed the United Kingdom to stop allocating female refugees from Ukraine to British single men. Time and time again we see that war and conflict pay a heavy toll to women and children. Women and girls are already vulnerable to sexual exploitation and abuse. At the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, there were reports of single men wanting to accommodate beautiful, intelligent, well-groomed women in our country. What's the deal with us with single men and Ukrainian women? Are they being assigned? What is the Belgian Government's policy on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u60	Mrs Safai, despite the massive wave of solidarity that flooded our country to help Ukrainians in need, there are unfortunately also people with less good intentions. Misuse of vulnerable people is, of course, unacceptable in any circumstance. In my services, Fedasil and the Foreign Office, there is increased vigilance to prevent abuse of vulnerable women. For example, during the registration process in Palace 8, extra care is taken to ensure that vulnerable Ukrainians do not get into a bad situation. They will also receive sufficient information during the interview and through a brochure to contact the competent services in the event of the least incident. So they also get a phone number. The police are also present at the Heizelsite to keep an eye out, so that women cannot be recruited at their registration. Together with Mrs Verlinden and Mr Van Quickenborne, on 18 March I launched a letter to screen host families through an extract from the criminal record. If there were other reasonable indications that the applicant cottage would pose a risk to the safety of the persons to be placed, the police would carry out an investigation. This is how we try to avoid such problems. When people are assigned and problems still arise, the local coordinators and the relevant OMCWs will follow closely. The British system is completely different. In order to obtain a visa in Great Britain one must first have a sponsor to start the application. So that creates a dependency situation. Someone may be willing to help someone come to England by acting as a sponsor. That person then decides whether the other person is allowed to come or not. This ensures that the person in question not only determines whether the person concerned is being received correctly, but even if that person has the right to be in the country. We may have reservations about that. It is all very well to wave Ukrainian flags on Facebook pages, but if one can only go there with a sponsor as a Ukrainian, that is not very solidarity. This leads to additional problems. In Belgium, it is made clear in all possible ways that it is not the intention to make undesirable actions in exchange for care. People arriving here are being taken in by us and do not need a special sponsor. We therefore continue to make maximum efforts to ensure the safety of these vulnerable women and children, both preventive and reactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, everyone sympathizes and wants to help. From the outset, we criticised the PlekVrij initiative to receive Ukrainian refugees. After all, this refugee crisis is not a crisis that can be blamed on the citizen. Proper screening of the families is needed. If the government cannot guarantee the protection of these vulnerable women and children, it seems appropriate to stop the allocation of female Ukrainian refugees to single men.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u62	Mr. Secretary of State, on Sunday 10 April, the local police caught a couple of minors trying to break into Flémalle near Liège. There are suspicions of forced crime and trafficking in human beings. The children, some between 10 and 12 years old, were locked in a Liège police cell. On Monday morning the police transferred the girls to the closed center in Holsbeek and the boys to the closed center in Merksplas. That was only possible because according to the Foreign Office, the police reported wrong birth dates. No one noticed those girls were only 10 and 12. Mr Secretary of State, how did that happen? In the meantime, was a thorough investigation conducted into those facts? If so, what are the results of that study and what conclusions were drawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u63	Mrs Safai, in reply to your question, I should like to congratulate my own services and the staff of the Foreign Office for the work they have done. As soon as the young people you refer to arrived in the closed center, the Foreign Office immediately released them because they turned out to be minors. My administration immediately contacted the Voogdij Service for further follow-up. The young people therefore did not stay in a closed centre. It should also be noted that the Foreign Office had previously indicated in its contacts with local police that minors are not being locked up in a closed centre. The police then informed the DVZ that, according to the DVZ, it concerned adults, on which, on the basis of that information, the DVZ granted permission to transfer to a closed centre. Upon arrival it immediately appeared that the persons concerned were anything but of age. The DVZ has therefore performed very well, for which thanks. For more information on this matter, please refer to my colleague, responsible for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-19-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic753x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
