ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u1	Madam President, Minister, attacks on rescue services, especially our firefighters and ambulance workers, are becoming more and more frequent. This weekend, again in Brussels, firefighters were attacked during their intervention. On 23 May, they were paramedics who intervened in the home of a lady in Roux, Charleroi, and who were cowardly attacked with a knife by a father and his son on the pretext that they were blocked by the emergency services. This is totally unacceptable! The number of assaults on paramedics and rescue services is increasing year by year, leaving psychological and even physical consequences for the attacked personnel, not to mention forced labour stoppages due to disability. It is more than time for a strong response to be provided to protect these people who each day perform this essential public service. Minister, in the face of this resurgence of aggression, what measures are you planning to take, in cooperation with your colleague the Minister of the Interior, to combat these attacks and to prosecute the perpetrators? I have already asked your colleague who has announced legislative initiatives to me and I would like to know whether you are going to confirm them or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have already asked you several times on this subject, and I have done so with regard to your colleague the Minister of the Interior. As soon as two days ago, another attack targeted the rescue services, but this time it happened in Forest. The figures in the Civil Security DG report showed an increase in acts of violence over the five years analysed up to 2019, from 110 recorded attacks on firefighters (verbal, physical and jet objects) to 189 in 2019, while the number of physical attacks against them had almost doubled over the same period (during the pre-constitution period 2020). That is why, Mr Minister, I have expanded my motion for a resolution tabled in the same committee, so that everything can be done in practice to limit the acts of violence against firefighters and to act beyond the revision of directives in the event of attacks on police officers. For beyond the sometimes well-known slogans, such as "zero tolerance", it seems to me that we need to devote ourselves more concretely and methodically to the effective prosecution of the perpetrators of physical and verbal violence. My colleague Caroline Taquin, co-signator of my proposal, has recently received a fairly eloquent reply from the Minister of the Interior confirming to her the absence of a census of attacks by profession within the General National Data Bank (BNG), stating moreover that the number of rescue zones that report their data varies from year to year (see. Vias reports) adding this admission: "We know today that all these facts are not recorded in the emergency areas and that they are even less the subject of a complaint to the police." The Minister of the Interior recalls the importance of providing for identical penalties for the attackers of police officers and firefighters, but prosecution is still necessary, which is not always the case in the light of the current directives. The motion for a resolution tabled, which will be debated shortly in the same committee, calls for an evaluation of the directives and a revision of COL 3/2008 on the College's directives, to ensure that the facts are prosecuted and therefore sanctioned. This is the minimum response of the public authorities to stem this proven sense of impunity in the leadership of these aggressors. This is a shared observation, with the enlargement of my proposal being co-signed, in particular, by my colleague Katja Gabriëls. Minister, I have two questions about the management of the situation. What is the status of the effectiveness of the tools used to analyse the follow-up of complaints filed by relief personnel? Could the Mach software be used at this level and improved in the near future in order to be able to take new initiatives against these acts and their perpetrators? Where is the possibility for firefighters to complain without having to mention all their personal data?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are not the first to ask me about this issue. The safety of our paramedics, like that of all rescue and police services, as well as that of all transportation personnel, is a priority for me and for the government. I have been interrogated on this subject on several occasions in recent months in the context of violence against ambulance and nursing personnel, against general practitioners and against railway personnel. As you know, we have strengthened COL 10/2017 on violence against the police and, as you rightly pointed out, COL 3/2008, which targets professions protected by Article 410bis of the Criminal Code, has been evaluated by the College. This COL provides for a strict response by the Justice in cases of serious violence. In cases of serious violence, the prosecutor's office is immediately informed by telephone in order to be able to take the necessary measures, such as the deprivation of liberty and the hearing of the accused by the prosecutor. As Minister of Justice, I have requested that the strict application of this directive be closely monitored. In the meantime, this directive has again been brought to the attention of all prosecutors and the police. In November 2021, this issue was also discussed with representatives of SNCB. Every case of aggression against health-care workers is indeed a case of too many. I fully agree on this point. However, I would like to highlight the fact that proper implementation of COL 3/2008 does not guarantee the absence of violence against police and rescue workers. I have the impression that some people think that by taking directives, there will be no more violence. As a minister, I can't guarantee it. On the other hand, what I can guarantee is that an effective response is provided by Justice and that is what COL 3/2008 provides for, which has been reassessed by the College of Attorneys General. What is important to me is that the Public Prosecutor's Office reacts promptly and appropriately to acts of violence committed against employees of public transport companies and others. As I say, the proof of pudding is that we eat it. I have not been presented with any cases, at this stage, in which the COL would not have been properly applied. But in terms of figures – on this point, I refer to Mr Pivin – it seems difficult for the Public Prosecutor's Office to measure the correct application of these directives for serious violence offences. That is why I asked the College of Attorneys General to work on a specific measure of the application of the COL. He started the necessary steps with the help of an application in Mach. That is what we need to be able to ensure that the directive is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I am surprised that they differ somewhat from those of your colleague, even if they do not object. Indeed, the latter referred to initiatives that would be taken with you, but that you did not address. First of all, she spoke of the equalization of penalties for assaults by police officers, ambulance attendants and other security professionals. Then she announced the anonymization of the filing of complaints. Finally, it promised better use of security surveillance cameras. I am therefore surprised that I did not find these three elements in your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u5	Mr Thiébaut, two of these three elements fall within the competence of the police. With regard to the first point, the revision of the Penal Code, which we are currently considering, envisages even more severe penalties for violence against the professional categories you are quoting. Does this complete the answer I have given you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u7	Minister, thank you for your clarification. You indicate that you are not aware of any cases where the 2008 circular would not have been applied in practice. I can hear it well, but that's not the problem! You say that you should not expect a guarantee that there will be no more violence. Of course, we will not expect this from you! It is impossible to guarantee that there is no more violence, but that is not the problem either! The problem is what is stipulated in the 2008 circular: "There must be a strict reaction", and you insisted on the word "strict", "in case of serious violence." It is the word "graves" that makes me tick because it was with such precision that the other circular, the one that established the nuance with the violence that causes disabilities of more or less four months, had to be revised. We have seen what this has caused as difficulties. As soon as the disability was less than four months, the file was closed. That is why this has been reformed! What I expect, too, is for gravity to be numbed. Minister, the aggression in Forest follows a rather classic scenario. They are guets-apens that end badly or not according to the "chance" that the rescue services may have. We're not in the relative gravity of an act of violence. We are simply in the fact that an act of violence must be continued. What I expect of you is not that you guarantee that there is no more violence, but that you guarantee that there will be systematic prosecution!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u8	"Mr Minister, you can imagine my frustration when I learned that Enghien's transitional house project was again bogged down in complications that jeopardize its recovery, while it has been closed since January 1st!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u9	And what future do you intend to give to the transition house of Enghien?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u10	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, thank you for your questions. As far as your first question is concerned, the Ce.R.A.I.C. retracted as a candidate while the whole file was in order. Our administration and the prison of reference had developed the start-up, in consultation with the candidate (Ce.R.A.I.C.). For reasons, the board of directors should be questioned. Indeed, it is the Ce.R.A.I.C. who decided to give up the planned project; it is not justice. Therefore, this decision cannot be attributed to justice, since justice has no responsibility in the decision-making of the C.R.A.I.C. and that this decision to stop the project was taken by the Ce.R.A.I.C. Only. Justice has no responsibility in this case. No compensation is provided for investments and other activities carried out by the Ce.R.A.I.C. As for your second question, there were no longer any inmates staying in the transitional house. To the extent that the operation of a transitional house is entrusted to an external partner or an NSO, all personnel matters are dealt with by the NSO. As there is no longer a project, no one is employed. The fate of the staff is the responsibility of the Ce.R.A.I.C. And not justice. On your third question, there is currently no activity in the Enghien Transition House. On your fourth question, a third call for applications will be launched very soon. We hope again to find a candidate for Enghien.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hear the Ce.R.A.I.C. indeed retracted, but the question remains open as to why. Because this association was extremely excited about the idea of taking over the project. She was a candidate for the takeover as early as November 2022. Everything was going well. This association met all the criteria. But it must be noted that today it retracts without knowing why. It would be interesting to start a dialogue with this association to find out why. You say that a third call for applications will be launched. It will be necessary to ensure that, this time, the conditions for the resumption of the operation are sufficiently tenable and interesting for associations, so that they can stand as candidates and lead their candidacy to term rather than abandoning at the end of the race as the Ce.R.A.I.C. did. I really think we need to use this sad episode to learn from it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u12	Minister, on May 18, I asked you about your plan to set up a detention facility in Chanly, which aroused great emotion among the population. I explained to you all the good that I thought about detention facilities compared to normal prisons, in which reintegration projects are more than limited. We also agreed that the nimby phenomenon should not prevent the establishment of such detention centres, wherever they may be, under false security reasons, which very generally do not need to be. On the other hand, you did not answer the question whether the criteria for mobility and for facilitating the reintegration of prisoners had been taken into account for this project. It was subsequently reported that, during the information session of the residents, your collaborators could not meet these criteria and clearly ignored the geographical and socio-economic situation of the municipality. It was apparently poorly located on the maps, and was mentioned there as a city, whereas it is a village of less than 500 inhabitants. After this presentation and the discontent of its citizens, the municipality dissociated itself from the project and is now considering the purchase of the building for its own projects. A decision of the communal council has been taken in this direction very recently. Minister, what are your plans for this site? Are you going to ask the Régie to outbid or would you prefer to abandon this site? What was and still is your collaboration on this issue with your colleague in charge of the Régie? What about the town? You said on 18 May that some 20 places were needed in the province of Luxembourg. Are further acquisitions of buildings by the Régie being considered in this province as part of the detention facility project? If so, which ones? If so, are the criteria for mobility and for facilitating the reintegration of prisoners better taken into account this time? In what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u13	Colleagues, I also learned through the press about the municipality's willingness to bid on the building. This position is quite surprising because the offer that had been made via my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments had been accepted by the seller. The latter is therefore now bound by the accepted offer. The Régie des Bâtiments informs me that the real estate advisor in charge of the sale told them that the ASBL Sisters Franciscan Missionaries of Mary had decided to reconsider its decision. A legal study is under way by the Régie des Bâtiments to analyse possible actions. In any event, both my colleague from the Régie des Bâtiments and myself intend to continue the current steps related to the detention house. As for our collaboration on this issue, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, I believe that weekly meetings are held between the two administrations. At these meetings, all the files were studied and Chanly was one of the points discussed. Indeed, if bus transport is not present in Chanly, it is also, ladies and gentlemen, the case of many cities and municipalities in Luxembourg, although it should be stressed that two bus lines, 11G and 29, have, as you know, a stop less than three minutes from the site. In addition, Grupont and Forrières train stations are nearby and easily accessible via electric bicycles. We were quite convinced of this project. Finally, if you look at the website of the nursing home that is close to the site of the detention house, you will find that there is mention of many free parking. This may be a little harder for you but this allows easy access to the E411 which is five minutes away by car. It is therefore wrong to say that the site is inaccessible and far from any urban centre, even if, of course, the reality of the province of Luxembourg, which is so charming, makes the surrounding cities less populated than large cities like Arlon. But I must also remind you that this is a matter of 17 detainees and not one more. Here are my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u14	Mr Minister, thank you, and I congratulate you on the research that has been carried out, particularly on bus lines that I admit you do not know. If I wanted to bother you a little bit more, I'd ask you how many times a day the bus goes to Chanly. If it exceeds twice a day, I would be particularly surprised! That said, in my view, it was reflections that were carried out after and not before the information meeting to the residents. Rather, that is what I regret. You didn't answer two of my questions either. You have answered the question of the mobility problem, but perhaps not the problem of local or nearby reintegration for prisoners. This is one of the fundamental objectives of detention centres. Now I'm still on my hunger. You didn't say anything about any other projects in the province either. But I know, and I support you, that it is particularly difficult to find sites for detention homes. I therefore wish you good luck in the continuation of your projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u15	Mr Minister, because of the outdated prison in Mons and the deplorable conditions faced by staff and detainees, I have been arguing for a very long time with the mayor of Mons for the construction of a new prison, which would be located on the outskirts - a modern facility better adapted to current needs. Last January, in response to my parliamentary question on this subject, you unfortunately told me that "in its current version, the masterplan did not (prevent) the construction of a new prison in Mons", while your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments announced at the same time that he was releasing an amount of 80 million euros for the construction of a new prison in Mons. Today, it is my responsibility that no political agreement has been reached on the financing of a new prison in Mons, despite the urgency and deplorable conditions in which the prison officers working there and the inmates living there coexist. In this context, both the mayor of Mons and the Labour Auditorate are threatening to adopt an outright closure measure if no concrete progress is made. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. First of all, do you support the construction of a new prison in Mons? Then, do you intend to introduce this project into the masterplan in collaboration with your colleague in charge of the Régie? If so, could you provide us with information on the amount and timing of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u16	Mr Thiébaut, I refer first of all to your question of 10 January. The prison in Mons is indeed in very poor condition. Therefore, I am obviously in favour of replacing it with a more modern infrastructure, in which a more contemporary view of the conditions of detention will be more easily applicable. The Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments is preparing the file. In its current version, the masterplan does not provide for such an establishment in Mons. It will therefore be necessary to move forward in this respect. I will support this project. For the time being, you will understand that I am not in a position to provide you with further details on this matter. In any case, I hope that my colleague will soon come and present you with an amendment to the masterplan, including the installation of the new prison in Montoise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u17	Minister, thank you. I am pleased that you have confirmed your support for this project. Now to support it is good, but to achieve it would be even better. We were announced the beginning of studies for 2024 and a start of the construction site in 2030. That said, if I ask you again, it is because I have received echoes from the mayor of Mons, according to which the political discussions would be frozen. So it's not a coincidence that I'm asking you again about this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u18	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55028417C and No. Question No 55028422 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin 55028436C by Mrs Vanessa Matz was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u19	Finally, I asked you at the end of December a written question about the treatment of transgender people in prison, you told me at that time that a note would be discussed at the beginning of 2022 in order to be finalized and then made public. Could you tell me where the work is and whether the new Observatory of the realities of transgender persons in prison has been or will be consulted, given its purpose particularly relevant to this work?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u20	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, in a prison, activities are mixed in a number of workshops in a structural way. In five prisons, visits are partly mixed. For Haren prison, this component has yet to be developed. With regard to your second question, by linguistic role, we are certainly planning a prison for women. With regard to your third question, we do not currently plan a detention facility where men and women can stay together. I do not exclude it in the long term, but I must focus first on our first objective of opening enough detention centres. With regard to your fourth question, during the year 2021, a document containing specific recommendations and guidelines for the care of transgender prisoners was drafted and updated and subsequently validated by management and distributed to prison management for feedback. The starting point is the right to self-determination and to respect for the identity and gender expression of the detainee, always taking into account the security aspects of the person, his or her immediate environment and the entire prison environment. This document contains very concrete recommendations concerning the daily life in prisons and the treatment of prisoners from target groups and their environment. These include, for example, addressing individuals, filing decisions, organizing showers, searching, medical surveillance, providing information to detainees with issues or concerns. The feedback was essentially positive, but it emerged that management was concerned about how to apply these measures in practice, often in less obvious circumstances. This is why we will initially focus on staff training before distributing the document to the entire organization. In the autumn of 2022, in collaboration with the diversity unit of the Justice FPS, the first training sessions will be organised for three target groups: psychosocial services staff, medical services and health care staff, and personnel departments and staff staff. In addition, as part of the training of staff recruited for the new Haren prison, a concrete module on diversity is also being launched. This module will also specifically address the management of transgender inmates. It is planned that this module will be developed in the basic training of all future staff as well as in subsequent training initiatives. The exact working methods will be further reviewed and developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u21	Minister, thank you for these answers. As far as the mix as such is concerned, if I understand correctly, it is a little left to the discretion of each prison management. I wonder if it would not be interesting to have a general reflection on the advantages and possible disadvantages of the issue of prison mix. I will probably go back to you later to see if this more general reflection on this is possible. As far as the case of transgender persons is concerned, indeed, you had already told me, a few months ago, that this document was being discussed with the prison directors. I understand that it is not yet ready to be broadcast and that we cannot yet read about it. I would have liked to know, on the precise question of the association with the reflection of the Observatory of the realities of transgender persons in prison, whether it was envisaged. It is indeed a structure which I consider highly relevant and competent in this field and which could contribute its expertise to this reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u22	Yes, we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the LeSoir newspaper of this June 2nd relayed the disappointment of students in law, of French mother tongue, but having chosen to take the master's courses at a Dutch-speaking university, who realized during the course of studies that this would prevent them, except to repeat a new master's degree in French, from being appointed to a position of French magistrate. The 1935 Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters provides that the language in which the master's degree is awarded determines the linguistic role for the rest of the career. I suppose the opposite situation also exists, with Dutch-speaking students studying in French. At a time when we are debating the attractiveness of the office of magistrate and when, unfortunately, candidates are still too few, especially when looking for bilingual persons, it would not be appropriate to look at this legislative lock, which, of course, stems from balances of which I know the delicacy but which now lead to the exclusion of candidates for positions in their mother tongue on the grounds that they and they wanted to broaden their horizon and follow part or all of their academic career in a Flemish university. Their bilingualism could, on the contrary, be valued in the judiciary, where we know the additional difficulty of recruiting bilingual magistrates. Could we not, for example, consider replacing the language requirement of the diploma with a language test to ensure that candidates master the necessary legal vocabulary in their native language? Minister, can you tell me if any contacts have been made with you on this matter by these students, as they mentioned it, and if any consideration can be given to this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u25	Madam President, Minister, our judicial system is bilingual and it is quite normal in a country with three official languages, two of which are predominant, Dutch and French. It is bilingual in vivo in some regions of our country. But legislation on employment in the judicial system sometimes generates inconsistencies and injustices. Thus, French-speaking students, aware of the value of bilingualism, made the choice to complete their master's degree in Dutch law. But these future high-quality jurists are rejected by the judiciary if they apply for judicial positions in the French-speaking part of the country. The 1935 Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters prevents them from competing with the judiciary in their mother tongue. The only solution for them is to repeat the same master's degree in a French-speaking university. They thus lose a year and spend their savings to validate courses that they already master. This is all the more absurd when we know the situation of the magistrates of that country and the efforts made in particular in this commission and in the government to try to improve the attractiveness of the office of magistrate. A student concerned with this situation wrote to you about it. The academic world and the judicial world are wondering about the relevance of this language criterion of the diploma. Damien Vandermeersch, well known to this committee and to you, had written in 1996: "The complexity of the rules on the use of languages is in the image of the Belgian institutional imbroglio and constitutes one of these examples of compromise "to Belgian" whose own logic often escapes the needs of practice and legal certainty." The legitimate objective of the 1935 Act was to prevent the Francophones of Flanders from occupying the places reserved for the Flemish. But it's not 1935. Minister, what do you think of this situation, particularly with regard to your work on the attractiveness of the office of magistrate? Do you think that the 1935 Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters needs to be revised in order to solve this problem for bilingual judicial candidates? Are you able to improve the publicity that must be made on the language criterion of the diploma for our future magistrates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed aware of the problems that you raise through your questions. There are other elements and inconsistencies in this famous 1935 law on which various members of this commission have already asked questions, including the president. Mrs Marghem, you refer to 1935, but, as you know, in 1996, it is still the same law. Since these questions are questions of a community nature, I invite you to address your questions to my colleagues. Within this government, two ministers are responsible for institutional matters, colleagues Clarinval and Verlinden. It's up to them to come with proposals. I won't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u27	Minister, I hear your answer very well. I understand it to some extent, since I myself have alluded to the delicate balances that were reflected in this law. On the other hand, with regard to the current specific problem of the attractiveness of the office of magistrate, if I understand that you may not want to formulate all the solutions on your own initiative, it seems to me that you can at least encourage your colleagues to think about it. This is very much about your skills, as it makes recruitment much more difficult at the moment. In any case, this probably deprives the judiciary of certain applications that could be particularly valuable. Even if you encourage us to address the questions to your colleagues, Mr Clarinval and Mrs Verlinden - which I will of course do - it seems to me that this certainly does not prevent you from also motivating them to think about a solution in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u28	Minister, I understand. You have a lot of work to do. Probably everyone has to stay in office. This does not prevent you from thinking about it, especially since you are at the heart of matter. As close to the linguistic border, bilingual, having studied law, if I am not mistaken, you are obviously particularly aware of this type of situation. You could, of course, help your colleagues to broaden their thinking so that together, in this government, you can find a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u29	"Mr Minister, on 23 May last, the Brussels Court of Appeal again condemned Belgium, represented by its Minister of Justice, for violating the fundamental principle of non bis in idem. This is the third decision to this effect since August 2019 in this case on which I have already questioned you twice. After also stigmatizing the violation of the interim measure ordered by the European Court of Human Rights, the Court stated this time that "No reasonable and lawful justification is prima facie capable of justifying such violations [of Article 3 of the Extradition Act of 15 March 1874] and the exceptional situation in which they placed Mr. Trabelsi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u30	In view of this new conviction, I would like to ask you a specific question: has the extradition order of 23 November 2011 rejected, or not, the final partial refusal of exequatur ordered by the investigating courts?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u31	Dear colleagues, the judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal of 23 May 2022 was executed within the prescribed time limits and in accordance with the arrangements. On 23 May, the Court of Appeal received and upheld the appeal. The Court ordered the Belgian State to communicate the present judgment translated into English to the competent American authorities, under penalty and within a certain period of time, in order to clarify even more fully the American court seised of the case of this gentleman. The Belgian State performed within the prescribed time limits on 2 June 2022. It is my responsibility as Minister of Justice to stick to the judgments of judicial powers and also to enforce them. That's what I've been doing since I was head of this department. For the rest, I will not comment on this judgment. The ministerial order for the extradition of this person dates from 23 November 2011. Extradition itself dates from October 2013. Since then, several procedures have been under way, both in our country and in the United States. It is precisely because these procedures are under way that it is not appropriate to comment further on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u32	Minister, I note that the judgment was translated into English and communicated on time. For the rest, my question was precisely not about the procedures under way, but precisely about the content of an administrative act that was taken by one of your predecessors in that post. Indeed, I believe that the case before us here is a case in which respect for the principle of non bis in idem is challenged in the light of the person's past actions, but the very nature of such a principle is precisely to be applied without exception, irrespective of the person claiming the benefit. I will follow closely the development of this issue. It seems to me important to recall that my question concerned the precise content of an administrative act and not the procedures in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u33	Question No 55028451C by Mr Michael Freilich becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, in response to my last questions on the application of the new judicial order's working regulations, you have told me that not all courts currently apply it, which is also confirmed to me by the field. You also told me that the regulation is already inherently binding. In addition, you told me that you had no authority over the courts as Minister of Justice. I'm left a little puzzled by that answer. Indeed, I was able to read copies of employment contracts of the judiciary. The employer is named "the Belgian State represented by the Minister of Justice". The employer of a worker assigned to a court is therefore not, a priori, the court itself but the Belgian State, of which you are the representative. Therefore, you are responsible for the management and enforcement of the work regulations. Minister, who is the hierarchical authority responsible for the application of the Labour Regulations. If you think these are the courts, can you tell me on what legal or treaty basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u35	My colleague, in principle, the working regulations are already binding on themselves, and everyone is therefore obliged to apply them. However, as an employer, I sent a ministerial circular on June 3, 2021 with instructions. In general, the Belgian State, represented by the Minister of Justice, acts as an employer. However, you know that the judicial organisation has a rather special structure, which is part of the guarantee of its independence. The principle of separation of powers implies, inter alia, that judicial personnel have their own legal status and that the organization of courts and tribunals is separated from the executive branch. The internal organisation therefore falls exclusively within the competence of the judiciary. As Minister of Justice, therefore, I do not have the right to intervene in this area. That is why, in February 2022, I asked the two Colleges to draw up binding directives on the basis of Articles 181 and 184 of the Judicial Code, concerning the application of the rules on working hours. The two Colleges considered that it was not appropriate to issue such binding directives, on the one hand, because both the regulations on working hours and the ministerial circular were already binding in themselves and, on the other hand, because they considered that such directives did not fall within the scope of the application of articles 181 and 184 of the Judicial Code, which were part of the proper management of the court. According to the two Colleges, it is first and foremost the competent management committee of the court, which includes the head of the body, the chief clerk and the chief secretary, to ensure the correct application of the rules on working hours. In addition, articles 398 to 403 of the Judicial Code contain the necessary provisions on hierarchy and supervision in the judicial organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's a beautiful Belgian schmilblik! I received representatives of the Judicial Order's workers some time ago. They have a problem with the working regulations that are not enforced and they are looking for a solution. You're the state, you're supposed to enforce this work regulations. The Colleges have told you that they are not competent to do so. To whom do these workers have to turn to find a solution? Minister, you're the employer, you said it yourself. Who has authority to enforce this work regulations? These workers demand nothing but compliance with the labour regulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u37	It is the competent management committee of the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u38	The committees don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u39	It's up to them. The Judicial Order is independent. It's up to them!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u40	They don't! So, what do we do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u41	Therefore, the procedures provided for in articles 398 to 403 of the Judicial Code must be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u42	Can't you do anything else?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u43	A Justice Minister can't fire someone! I'm not an employer!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u44	Therefore, it is problematic because on the employment contract, you are the employer. So there's a problem at this level!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u45	I said I have no right to intervene in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u46	I understand perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u47	It's up to the steering committee to do it. I did not wait for your question to ask the two Colleges to give instructions. I read what they said to me. I'm in constant dialogue with them. I cannot forbid or say that we must intervene here or there. If I did, you would exclaim: "But where is the independence of justice, minister!"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u48	Why are you designated as an employer on the employment contract? Minister, I'm not throwing the stone at you. Our system, our state really doesn't work. These workers have been trying to enforce this work regulation for years. They can't do it. They took steps in every direction and even met with the SPF Emploi who replied that they could not do anything for them. You say there's nothing you can do about it, but it's the committee that has to do it. However, the committee does not do so. What are we doing? Are these workers left in this disarray or are we acting? How can we act? Application of the Judicial Code? At some point, answers must be given to these workers. However, it is no coincidence that they turn to you since it is your function that is designated on their contract of employment. That's the problem! How can one be both employer and not competent? Minister, it is not your fault, it is the institutional system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u49	If they have problems, they should contact the executive committee. If the latter does not answer them, whether they go to the College of the seat or the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u50	The College replied that it was not within its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u51	I must respect the independence of justice, my dear friend!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u52	But what do we do? We will continue to dig to find what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u53	"Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u54	Thank you in advance for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, my services and those of the Régie des Bâtiments have been busy for months visiting all the sites that could potentially accommodate a detention home. In the province of Hainaut, approximately 75 places are required. This will require two buildings. The Régie des Bâtiments has in Colfontaine a former gendarmerie that could quite easily be transformed into a detention facility that can accommodate 30 to 35 convicts. Colfontaine is close to Mons but also to other important urban centres such as Dour or Frameries, whose station is 3 kilometers away. Mr. Vajda is no longer present, but it's interesting. The old gendarmerie is on the highway, easily accessible, and therefore offers many possibilities of travel. Under such conditions, the building concerned quickly became a real opportunity that we wish, the colleagues of the Régie des Bâtiments and myself, to operationalize. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, once a site is envisaged, the first step is then to contact the municipal authorities via the mayor, as I always do. For example, requests have been sent for a meeting several times since November 2021. But the mayor refuses any contact. Like you, I have learned that the communal council has recently raised the issue, but this has not been made contact with me, my administration or my firm. This is all the more regrettable because information sessions are quite possible in Colfontaine and elsewhere. So I can only hope that the local authorities will eventually show openness because I find it difficult to understand how one can position oneself on a project that is unknown. So you should ask your question to the municipal officials rather than to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I asked you the question, it's because I don't have the chance to sit on the communal council of Colfontaine. Otherwise you can be certain that I would have asked them the question. I understand that the site that would have been chosen has all the assets necessary to become a good house of detention, while knowing that it would concern two buildings: the former gendarmerie and another building. You didn't specify where it would be located. Perhaps there is an incomprehension in the head of the college of the commune with regard to this site and not with regard to the site you mentioned, namely the former gendarmerie. For the rest, it is challenging to see a college opposing a project without knowing the ins and outs of it. Perhaps it would be interesting to turn directly to the inhabitants to explain the merits of the project, if it had not been possible to do so directly with the competent municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u57	Madam Chair, Minister, a famous quote is that a picture is worth a thousand words. However, there are figures that are as eloquent and worrying as certain images when they come to quantify the horror of the pictures taken on the mass graves of Boutcha and Borodienka. Ukraine is at war, and Ukrainian civilians – in addition to the ordinary suffering and anguish of the invasion – are victims of war crimes, including summary executions by the Kremlin soldier. Ukraine's Attorney General estimates that between 200 and 300 such war crimes are committed every day in Ukraine. Ukrainian justice is faced with an immense and painful task by detecting these crimes, identifying their perpetrators and prosecuting them. More than 600 suspects are reportedly already identified by the Ukrainian investigative services. In the face of these flagrant violations of our common values, several European countries have offered their help in supporting and strengthening Ukrainian justice. Under Eurojust, Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Poland and Slovakia formed a joint investigation team. In addition to Ukrainian investigators, they will work in the field with the 42 experts and investigators of the International Criminal Court (ICC) teams, whose prosecutor has signed a cooperation agreement with Eurojust for optimal collaboration. Eurojust will ensure the coordination of these multiple judicial actors. The European Agency is able to store, preserve and analyse documents shared by national prosecutors. Any evidence that will be collected by state investigators will be immediately made available to other partners. A centralized database will facilitate the sharing of information, so crucial to completing war crimes cases and bringing their perpetrators to justice. After diplomatic and military support, we can therefore welcome this judicial support. Minister, Belgium has long committed itself to fighting impunity for war criminals – a commitment that led us to prosecute Hissène Habré, for example. Moreover, our nation has always played a leading role in a European Union made up of concrete projects and reinforced solidarity. Will Belgium join the joint investigation team currently in place? Has our country engaged or intends to engage in any means of expertise and investigation in the service of the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u58	Dear colleague, Belgium is not currently considering joining the joint investigation team set up on 25 March by Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine and joined by Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia and the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. The competent judicial authorities do not consider that participation in this joint investigation team (JIT) would bring any added value. This does not prevent the Belgian courts from assuming their responsibilities and investigating the alleged facts, provided that they are competent in the matter. In addition, the competent judicial and police authorities continue to participate actively in Eurojust's meetings on the coordination of judicial actions at European level, as well as in the Network of Operational Contact Points of the European Union for the investigation and prosecution of impunity for the crime of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, said the Genocide Network. In this context, the judicial and police authorities continue to pay particular attention to promoting any cooperation or exchange of information with the judicial and police authorities of other States, with the ICC Prosecutor's Office or with the JIT itself. Interdepartmental coordination took place under the leadership of the SPF Foreign Affairs to determine how Belgium could respond to the appeal of the ICC Prosecutor's Office for assistance from States parties to the Rome Statute, including through the provision of national experts and financial contributions to meet its urgent resource needs and to enable it to deal effectively with all situations currently under investigation or trial. In this regard, I must point out that Belgium's judicial cooperation with the ICC is often cited as an example by the ICC bodies themselves and that Belgium is regularly thanked for this. There is no doubt that the competent authorities will be able to make all their expertise and know-how available to the Office of the Prosecutor with regard to its investigation in Ukraine, as is the case in any situation in which their cooperation is required. In addition, the Council of Ministers on 22 April decided to make a voluntary contribution of EUR 500,000 to the Trust Fund opened by the Prosecutor for this purpose and, on the one hand, took a decision in principle on the dispatch of a team of the Disaster Victim Identification (DVI) of the Federal Judicial Police in Ukraine, which will be accompanied by technical and scientific police personnel, stress psychologists from the Federal Police, forensic doctors, dental experts, anthropologists and deminers. It was agreed that the dispatch of personnel would only be on a voluntary basis, provided that their safety could be guaranteed. Close contacts are currently being maintained between ICD management and the ICC Prosecutor's Office to determine the most appropriate way of providing assistance. Indeed, our country is currently working intensively with the ICC to put our expertise at the service of Ukraine. More specifically, there is a commitment to carry out a concrete mission in collaboration with the Netherlands, under the auspices of the ICC, on the burden of proof, in consultation with the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine. For the time being, ICD intervention is not a priority for Ukraine, as it can currently identify bodies found with its own expertise. A joint mission with the Netherlands and the ICC is currently the most realistic scenario, if the ICC can, of course, provide the necessary guarantees in terms of security and immunity insurance for our staff. These issues are currently being considered by the ICC. In the medium term, the ICC's intention is to develop a system of rotation, with several countries, in which groups of experts from different countries take turns on the ground for several weeks. At present, nine countries are already ready to engage in such a system of cooperation. We should soon receive further clarification from the ICC on this matter. With regard to other possible detachments, discussions under the leadership of the FPS Foreign Affairs are under way to determine whether analysts, demining experts or trainers could be made available to the ICC Prosecutor's Office. In this regard, the Belgian authorities are continuing their dialogue with the Office of the Prosecutor in order to better identify needs. In this context, attention should be paid to certain risks arising from the dispatch of Belgian personnel to Ukraine, and in particular military personnel, and to the consequences relating to the qualification of Belgium as a party to the conflict. Where appropriate, Belgian military personnel should preferably be dispatched in situations other than Ukraine. But this, as you will understand, does not fall within the direct jurisdiction of my department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u59	Minister, thank you for your very thorough and thorough answer. It informs us and assures us of Belgium's sharp participation to the extent of its possibilities. Of course, we are perhaps more European than the countries directly adjacent to those in conflict. Caution should therefore be exercised. This can explain that. But I am pleased to hear that many of our strengths and skills are engaged in the struggle for the discovery of the authors, in the pursuit of them and above all for peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u60	Madam President, Minister, we have recently debated the new sexual criminal law. The entry into force has shown that something has been overlooked, which may have serious consequences, especially for vulnerable victims. It is presumably a matter of oblivion, but it is not possible to correct certain crimes. These are specific facts for which a penalty of 20 to 30 years can be imposed by the application of aggravating circumstances. It concerns, for example, repeated rape of a vulnerable person or an incestuous rape, which are serious facts. This would mean that such sensitive and personal files, because they cannot be corrected, should be dealt with before an assistant jury and would therefore receive a lot of media attention. Apparently, the Board Chambers do not refer such cases for the time being, but postpone them for the time being pending or hoping for an amendment to the law. Are you aware of this problem? How many cases are being delayed at the moment, because the Council Chambers are postponing referrals? Will you come to Parliament with a solution? Those files are slowing down. Are there any other negative consequences? If there is a need for recovery legislation, is it perhaps interesting to look at everything again? Perhaps your cabinet has already done so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u61	Madam President, Ms De Wit, the experts on the Criminal Code indicated that the general Article 116 of the new sexual criminal law was sufficient. This overarching article provides that all existing references to other laws in accordance with the old numbering of the Criminal Code shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding new provisions of the new sexual criminal law. Therefore, on the basis of the correlation table, read in conjunction with Article 116 of the Act, it could be inferred that Article 2 (5) of the Law now includes mitigating circumstances covering all non-consensual acts committed against a minor regardless of age. On the basis of that Article 116 of the new sexual criminal law, judges may interpret that no prosecution before the Court of Assists should be organised in case of prosecution for rape committed to the detriment of a person in a vulnerable situation, rape of a minor under 16 years of age, rape with incest as an aggravating factor and the organisation of fornication or prostitution of a minor in association. However, if this new Article 116 were to be interpreted strictly by judges, this could only be used for the conversion of Article 375 of the Criminal Code, and not for the other, new articles with a heavier penalty, such as rape with incest as an aggravating factor. Therefore, a number of articles of the new sexual criminal law have not yet been added to the list to correct crimes in the law mitigating circumstances of 8 October 1867. Certain measures of punishment have indeed been increased to 20 or 30 years, which should, in principle, lead to the Court of Assists. That is not the intention, of course. That is why it is desirable to refine Article 2 of that law, no matter what we do. The amendment is ready and will be submitted to Parliament before the summer recess. This amendment should enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Council chambers are not obliged at all to postpone pending cases. For this reason, it is also impossible to answer at this time to your question as to how many judges would postpone a case. Moreover, by definition, these are only facts which would have been committed after 1 June, the date of entry into force. For such facts, there are, of course, no cases pending for referral to the council chamber a week after that entry into force. In order to avoid the discussions on the interpretation of Article 116, it is appropriate to amend the law on mitigating circumstances. So it is not a matter of hasty art and flying, but to avoid possible 'wrong' interpretations. This amendment is of a procedural nature and applies to pending court cases which will have to be brought before the courts. A number of other technical adaptations are also foreseen. The adaptation of additional penalties should take into account the principles of the application of the least stringent law at the time of judgment and of the non-recoverable force of criminal law. It is normal for some things to emerge in a major review that require refinement. That was the case in the past, it is not different now, and it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u62	Minister, have I understood you correctly that an amendment to a law will be tabled before the summer recess? What law will that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u63	On the announced second bill to make justice faster, more human and more criminal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u64	So on a new bill containing various provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u65	Right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u66	Okay. For a moment, I thought you'd want to come to the Chamber with your new penal code. Mr Minister, if you look at something from the Criminal Code to update it, there is always a risk that the rest of the criminal law has not been adapted, and that is the unfortunate thing about that way of working. I realize you can never rule anything out. It would be a pity if certain dossiers were to be put on hold. I hope this doesn't have to happen, or not too often. From the fact that we are working on legislation here and that something is being overlooked here and there because everything has been mixed up, the victim must never again be the victim. I look forward to the new amendment. We'll see what it solves. In your first sentence, you said that the new Criminal Code will solve all this. Of course, that is not yet the case. We're not there yet. Perhaps the House should have the courage to think that when certain issues are highlighted, this does not always ensure a better readability of our law. That can't really be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic811x.u67	There were two further questions, but they lapse because the questioners were not present.
