ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.21 p.m. and chaired by the Chair, Ms. Eliane Tillieux. The meeting was opened at 2.21 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the full record of this meeting or its annex. A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. You can find them on the Chamber's website and in the integral report of this meeting or in its annex. Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Pierre-Yves Dermagne, Frank Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u4	We have learned the sad news that affects a member of this House within his family circle. We have heard the sad news that Mr Colebunders' daughter died at the age of 21. Because of her disability Giada could not express herself with words, but she used her own sign language, allowing her to communicate with everyone and spread her good mood. She loved music very much. She left peacefully in her sleep, while until a few days ago there was nothing to suggest. We express our deepest and most sincere condolences to our colleague. We wish him much courage to overcome this ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u5	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate who is to sit to replace Mr. Joy Donné, who resigned on June 30, 2022. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Joy Donné, who resigned on 30 June 2022. The alternate is Mieke Claes, an alternate for the electoral district of Limburg. The successor who will replace him is Mrs Mieke Claes, successor for the constituency of Limburg. The credentials of Mieke Claes were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Mieke Claes' credentials were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the supplementary examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choosing only concerns the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen". I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Mieke Claes to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Mieke Claes to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u6	Mieke Claes will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Mieke Claes will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u7	By letter of 28 June 2022, the Prime Minister transmitted a copy of the Royal Order of 28 June 2022 entitled "Government - Amendment". By letter of 28 June 2022, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 28 June 2022 entitled "Government - Amendment'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u8	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on that? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u9	Madam President, I would like to express my deepest condolences to Mr Colebunders. Mr Minister, almost every week you are asked about the target of an employment rate of 80% set in the government agreement and about the long-awaited reform of the labour market. Almost every week, you give us about the same answer. Today, we learn that a note from the Secretary of State for the Budget is circulating about the reforms that are slow to come. This note also concerns you, which is why we decided to ask you again. Ms De Bleeker warned about the consequences of non-implementation of reforms, whether in the area of pensions or employment, and therefore threatened Belgium's recovery plan, for which Europe had already revised its intervention downwards. So yes, we are talking a lot about the individual training account, but I am also thinking of measures to put many unemployed people, young people, long-term sick people, women and other target groups back on the road to work when many SMEs are facing a great shortage of labour and are struggling to turn their business around. Minister, the Secretary of State directs you to act for the reasons I have cited. What answers will you give him? What answers can you give us in addition to the job deal that is coming up in the near future? What other concrete measures will you give priority to? When will these measures be presented to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u10	Madam President, first of all, on behalf of the Government and on my own behalf, I would like to join in the sincere condolences extended to Mr Gaby Colebunders and to his relatives and members of his group. Mr President, thank you for your various questions. You know I'm not used to comment on the comments. So I'm not going to get rid of this habit. On the other hand, in view of the various points you have raised, I would like first of all to point out that, if Europe is to review today the amounts which should be allocated to Belgium for its recovery plan, it is unfortunately or fortunately for a good reason: it is that the economic outlook is that the different statistics are that the different figures relating to the Belgian economy are better than expected at the time of drawing up the recovery plan. It is also – I would like to remind you here – a historic moment in relation to the employment rate in our country. In the second quarter of 2022, Belgium reached an employment rate of 71.9%. This has never been the case for decades, and this increase corresponds to almost 3% in a year. And the employment rate is increasing in all categories of the population: young people, the elderly, women as well as for all levels of qualification and in all regions. The unemployment rate is falling in each of the regions of this country and we must all welcome it. This record employment rate and the decline in continuous unemployment in each of the regions is the result of the work carried out by this government as well as by the governments of the federated entities. And we must and we can rejoice. Thus, Belgian workers, workers and businesses were better protected during the crises that we have just experienced than companies and workers in other countries, which has enabled them to recover and recover more quickly than in neighbouring countries. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u11	Mr Dermagne, your time has expired. That's the rule, and I can't afford to let you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u12	Mr Minister, I note that this is moving forward, even if you have been cut off in your momentum and even if we do not always have the same political agenda. Employment is the only way to give real purchasing power and it is also the best way to finance our social security. It also means ensuring that we honour our commitments to Europe, without taking the risk of compromising the recovery plan. Good intentions are no longer enough, minister. There's an emergency! And the Secretary of State for the Budget is right to warn you. As far as I am concerned, I would remind you that in Belgium there are 141 jobs in need, 140,000 jobs to fill, more than 300,000 job seekers, not to mention half a million long-term patients. We'll be here to help you. But now we need decisions!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u13	Mr Minister, Mr Chers Collègues, everyone following the current situation has seen the figures. Corona numbers are rising and the BA.5 and BA.4 variants are on the rise. But we're not panicking. We may be at the beginning of a new wave, but the choices we make today will have an impact on that. In the meantime, I believe in honest and open communication, and I am sure that you will also be able to take away the uncertainty as much as possible for the people and offer their perspective. That is why I would like to talk to you about the monitoring of the figures. How is it that we are not able to get this monitoring going? People with symptoms will no longer be tested with an official pcr test or a quick test at the general practitioner or pharmacy. According to UAntwerp and Hasselt University, there would be eight times more contamination than the registered one. That is why I have the following questions for you. How will you put the monitoring on track, so that the public gets the communication that can provide their trust and security The Leuven Rega Institute also has an alternative to the expensive pcr-tests. Will you include that alternative in your test strategy? What measures will you take to ensure that after difficult Corona years people will have a good summer, without having to worry about a new outcry in the autumn? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u14	Thank you, Mrs Pisman. It was also your maiden speech, donc je propose de l'applaudir.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u15	Minister, obviously the daily contamination rates are on the rise. According to the latest figures, there are 3,800 contaminations per day. A recent study by the University of Liège shows that this rate is clearly underestimated since testing is less practiced today. In everyday life, we are all confronted with relatives who are contaminated. Minister, you mentioned a vaccination plan for the fall. What's your status? What are your recommendations to older people? Depending on the regions, policies are somewhat different, for example with regard to the vaccination of people over 80 years of age. As far as masking is concerned, it seems to me that recommendations would be necessary, particularly in public transport. We are obliged to take a number of measures today so that we do not have to take more complicated ones later, which could be restrictions of freedom, which we want to avoid at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u16	Minister, COVID-19 continues to surprise us. Unfortunately, the contagion rates and hospitalizations are increasing. We should not panic, because we effectively have defence lines. We can keep our distance, wash our hands and wear mouth masks, which is certainly important for our caregivers. We also have virus inhibitors and vaccines. Summer holidays are on the doorstep and we want our citizens and healthcare providers to be able to enjoy them as carefree as possible. We absolutely must not put pressure on care again. It is therefore important to give the most vulnerable patients, the sick and the 80+, a fourth shot. Minister, I note that 400,000 fourth shots were distributed in Flanders, 40,000 in Wallonia and 7,000 in Brussels. The policy makers in Wallonia and Brussels have therefore taken a great risk. I have been telling this Community story for months, with some concern. Flanders is ready to help the other entities to increase the vaccination rate. That's really urgent. What will you do to ensure that the healthcare sector will not be under pressure this summer, that our care providers can effectively travel and that our children can enjoy their great holidays? What about your strategic stock of personal protective materials? Is it true that there is non-conformity and destruction? Will you have sufficient personal protective equipment for our care providers? It is very good that you have called for testing for a festival, but what are your plans for autumn? Are you ready for next wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u17	Madam President, Minister, we have indeed not finished with the covid-19 pandemic. Indeed, we are currently witnessing a rapid circulation of variants BA.4, but above all BA.5. Other countries were affected before us, including Portugal, which, despite a very high rate of vaccination, unfortunately had to cope with a significant increase in mortality among people over 80 years of age. Today, in Belgium, the strategy must be, first and foremost, to protect as much as possible the most vulnerable and older patients. In our country, the second vaccination recall is only accessible to severe immunocompromised patients and patients over 80 years of age. It is now time to allow general practitioners to administer it to some of their patients who are fragile, who have chronic diseases, even if they have not reached that age. To protect the most fragile, it is also necessary to reduce the circulation of the virus. It is therefore necessary to recommend wearing the mask again for the older ones, in any case. I note that the signal has been sent to some rest homes, but this is not the case in many others. It would be important to generalize it, as is always the case in hospitals. There is preventive treatment, namely Evusheld, to protect immunocompromised patients for several months. This medicine is insufficiently used in Belgium. In addition, the recommended dose is not optimal. Minister, do you intend to adapt this recommended dose as a matter of urgency? Professor Goldman speaks of Belgian inertia in the protection of immunocompromised patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u18	Minister, the corona figures have been rising again for two weeks. There would be between 3,000 and 30,000 positive cases per day; there are no precise figures. Once again, the general practitioners are overwhelmed with patients and have to answer a lot of questions, questions such as how to test themselves; when to be tested or when to put on a mask and when not. There are strikingly few clear answers to this. This morning I had a colleague on the phone who complained that, although she saw the figures rise for two weeks, she had not received any new recommendations from Sciensano. What is the strategy regarding testing? This morning, De Standaard said that a lot of people aren't getting tested or they're just doing a self-test. Is that enough or not? Does everyone have to take a PCR test or not? Do we have enough test capacity for that? What about the tracing? What about quarantine rules and cluster detection? When should we recommend the fourth vaccine dose? Last week there was also a cry from the general practitioners. One in three GPs are thinking of stopping. They also complain that after seven waves it is still not possible to automatically generate a disease note in a positive covid test. In the meantime, we also have three apps on our mobile phone, which we are wondering what exactly we should use them for and when. It's all pretty unclear. Minister, what lessons have you learned from the covid crisis? What's your test strategy? How will you follow the evolution of the epidemic? Do we want to keep testing everyone? As far as tracing is concerned, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is a great deal of virus going on. This is expected to increase further. That is a reason for extreme caution but indeed not for panic. Mrs Pisman, it is indeed essential that people do what is stated in our testing strategy today. There is no doubt about that. If you have symptoms, you can go to the website mijngezondheid.be, masanté.be and you will find an auto-evaluation tool there. One can see whether the symptoms are such that one should be tested with a PCR test or rapid antigen test. If that is the case, then we must do so. That's in everyone's best interest. This way we can keep up with our statistics. The first call is for citizens to do what we ask, namely to be tested when they have symptoms, with a PCR test or rapid antigen test at a pharmacy. We help with an application to minehealth.be, masanté.be. That's essential. Mrs Pisman, your concern about our statistics is justified when people stop doing so. But our dashboard doesn't cheat on us. We see fewer tests, but we also see the positivity ratio rise enormously. This means that of the people who are being tested, many people are unfortunately infected. We also see an increase in the number of hospital admissions. We must ensure that we protect vulnerable people in particular. That is why we have made it very clear that if you come back from a party, an activity, a festival and meet someone who is vulnerable, who has immunity problems, weak health, you have to stay away. We know this is necessary. Meet that person outside if you can. Wear a mouth mask. We also say about vulnerable people to wear a mouth mask on bus, tram or train. I believe, Mr Bacquelaine, that what is important is to repeat what we said last week with the Ministers of Health. For people with a health problem, a problem of immunity, who have a fragile health, the wearing of the mask is necessary in a variety of contexts. People must not be embarrassed. This is a clear recommendation. When you have an immunity problem and enter a closed space, wear an FFP2 mask. When you meet a fragile person, if you have many contacts - a party, an activity, a festival - keep a distance with it. I think we have to say that again. As far as vaccination is concerned, some of the recommendations are essential and, in fact, mandatory requirements, if you ask me. People who have not been boosted but only had their basic vaccination should absolutely contact their vaccination centre and get boosters. The booster is still extremely effective against serious covid and against hospitalisation. The risk of getting into a hospital is drastically reduced if you are boosted, even if you received the booster shot a few months ago. People who haven't been boosted should get boosters. People belonging to the immunocompromised group, transplant patients, cancer patients, renal dialysis patients, should receive their fourth shot. We will therefore send a reminder to this group of people in the three regions. It's about 320,000 people. That number is indeed better in Flanders than in Wallonia and Brussels, but also in Flanders we don't get 100 %, so it's always a little bit mindful of complacency. In the three regions we will send a reminder letter. The people who belong to that group must absolutely take a fourth shot. In fact, that's the first booster for those people, after a three-stick primary vaccination. So what's launched, we have to finish. With regard to the future of vaccination, we have requested an updated opinion from the Higher Health Council on the groups to be vaccinated: when, who, how. We will normally receive this notice next week. I am not going to comment now on the upcoming vaccination scripts, on what to do with the health care staff. I look forward to the advice of the Supreme Council of Health for future vaccination scripts. We follow the recommendations of the Therapeutics Group. It's not because someone has an opinion that it's a correct opinion. I don't know. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I just wanted to say that everything is in evolution. The monitoring can be even better. Perhaps you should think about this as well as taking the new tests, which are considerably cheaper and more convenient for the population. I'm gonna finish with a metaphor. I hope that people will be able to enjoy the summer as the crickets of the summer and that you and your fellow ministers such as ants will continue the hard work so that we do not have to worry after the holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you, I think we need to protect the most vulnerable people first and foremost. Perhaps it would be necessary to repeat guidelines that are very useful to the health care community in particular and to all community operators in our country in order to protect vulnerable people, the elderly and people with co-morbidities. I think we need to prepare for a wider vaccination with a fourth vaccine, a second booster in the fall for older and vulnerable people, and also to ensure that, as you have said, it is very official to repeat that the wearing of the mask must remain topical in certain circumstances if we are to avoid the increase in numbers in the autumn, which is unfortunately a probability.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u22	Minister, it is a matter of God that you should send a letter to your friends who are in the government together. You must send a letter to encourage them to organise the fourth shot effectively. [[Objection]] You have stated that a letter is being sent to the Länder to encourage the administration of a fourth injection. I'll tell you why you should do that! You should do that because the 80-plussers were not even invited to that shot in Brussels and Wallonia. There is only 10% of the number of vaccinees in Flanders! And that might increase the pressure on our care system, wouldn't it?! Mr Minister, we agree; talk to your friends, your comrades, who conduct policy in Wallonia and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u23	Minister, it's all right! [[Laughter]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u24	If people don't listen to what they're saying and tell fantasies...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u25	I don't think there's that many fantasies. You will allow me, Minister, to insist on stronger protection for the most fragile patients, both for the second booster and for the masks. I'm watching the situation in the nursing homes. Let's not let things get out of hand! Preventive treatment exists, but our country is among the least used, while protecting patients for many months. We have not talked about it, but we must anticipate the months ahead that may prove more difficult. I'm thinking of autumn and winter. I'm not just talking about vaccination, because it's important to increase the number of caregivers in the hospital and at home. In addition, you need to develop a ventilation plan – and not just on paper, Minister! Schools, nursing homes and hospitals need it. In this way, we will have the maximum chance of spending the winter as comfortably as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u26	Minister, what a feeling you have already seen! It is the same speech as in previous waves: people must act in such a way, take responsibility, get tested, wear a mask, etc. But the question is, what are you doing yourself to stem the epidemic? I talked about the generalists. They told you that it didn't work on the ground, that it was overcrowded and that there were many problems. You simply reply that no support is provided. Do you think they can test anyone with symptoms? That's impossible! I reminded you of the lack of information. What about tracing and different applications? It's a mess! People don't know what it's about. I consider that you have not learned at all from the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u27	Minister, the question is how we deal with terrorists in captivity. You know that there is a certain foreign interest for some, not to mention Mr Assadi, who has been convicted of terrorism. There is some concern about the extent to which this government would be prepared to allow this man to emerge from the dance by transporting him to Iran, with the possibility that he might be reduced or even released there. I quote what you said on 3 February 2021: "In general, it is correct that the Iranian regime likes to steer a deal or a prisoner exchange. I might add immediately that the principles of our rule of law cannot be the subject of a cow trade, let alone a carpet market." You said at the time that this was about facts of alleged state terrorism, but in the meantime there has been a ruling and it has not been alleged state terrorism anymore but has been established and condemned by state terrorism. Against this background, I have to say that we have a certain concern that Iran could try to get into situations where it could blackmail our country or get into a situation where this state terrorist could be effectively extradited. My question is very simple, namely whether you stick to what you said on 3 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u28	Mr De Roover, since the start of the terrorist crisis, our country has condemned more than 500 people for terrorism. That number is quite high, because we have extended the legislation in this area and there is good work done by our security services. We also developed a policy on criminals of this kind in prisons. Examples include the Deradex wings in certain prisons and the disengagement programmes in cooperation with the Communities. Most of it concerns Islamist terrorism, which is why there were some controversial issues. The policy is very clear, terrorists must be prosecuted, condemned and punished. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. However, the rule of law must also act to the maximum against the dangers of terrorism, such as the narcoterrorism, which also requires an international approach. This is how we ensure that criminals cannot hide in other countries, because impunity is not an option. At the same time, however, we also want to protect our compatriots worldwide, hence these international agreements. That is the commitment, I admit, of the assent law on five international treaties which we will be submitting to the committee next week for ratification. In these treaties, we explicitly provide guarantees of respect for human rights and the rule of law. We have done so in the past, by the way, when we signed such a treaty with the Congo in 2014 and with China in 2018. Now we will re-enrol guarantees on the rule of law, the implementation of sanctions and human rights. Our country has a strong international reputation in this area, and we must uphold that reputation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u29	Minister, as far as domestic policy is concerned, we are, of course, settled in the contramine. That's how it's supposed to be in a democracy. In this respect, however, we are taking a step towards another dimension, in which I hope we are each other's allies. I am not just referring to the words I have quoted, but also to the words you have just said, namely that we ensure that terrorists are not only judged and condemned, but also that they can serve their legitimate punishment to the full. No detours should be sought which would allow them to de facto avoid that punishment. So I'll stick to your answer. I trust that your government will ensure that we are able to assess the developments in the next few weeks and months against that background. We will follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u30	Minister, last Friday's ruling by the American Supreme Court will force millions of women to have an abortion in hiding at the risk of their lives. This decision shows how fragile women's rights are and how much we need to protect them, especially against the obscurantist currents that also exist in Belgium, even within your own party. This decision therefore prompted the PS, Ecolo and the MR to call for the inclusion of this right in our Constitution, but without agreement on how, on the determination of the articles, on the terms, on the deadline. I therefore asked the Secretary of State in charge of Equal Opportunities. I asked for the government's position on this and it kicked in. What we know, on the other hand, is that this registration will take a great deal of time and that it will not provide any concrete response to Belgian women who are also forced to have an abortion in hiding from the moment they have the misfortune of having to have an abortion beyond 12 weeks of pregnancy. What would help them, on the other hand, in concrete terms, would be a law that would decriminalize abortion and also ease the conditions for abortion, which is precisely provided for in a bill that now has a parliamentary majority in this House. The problem is that your government agreement only authorizes its re-registration on the day when there may be a consensus between the seven parties of Vivaldi. That's why I'm asking you. Is the incorporation of the right to abortion in the Constitution now supported by your Government? Are you prepared to depart from your government agreement, even if you are angry with the CD&V, and finally let Parliament express its views on the abortion law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u31	Mrs Rohonyi, the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States did indeed create an emolument in Belgium and Europe. I can tell you that I also share this emolument. As you know, in Belgium, the right to abortion has been fully enshrined in our legal arsenal since 1990. Should this right be enshrined in the Constitution? As you know, amending the Belgian Constitution is an important process in essence that aims to incorporate a fundamental right over time. In Belgium, the debate is not that of the United States or other countries. The system of adoption of the law, the role of the Constitutional Court and the place of the Constitution are not comparable. I have seen that yesterday the Constitutional Committee began discussions within the framework of the order of business. These discussions focused on the question of including a right in the Constitution and the Commission concluded that there was in preparation a request for an information report that would soon be filed by a party. There will also soon be a proposal to revise Article 22 of the Constitution, if I believe what has been said. I confirm that Article 22 is open for revision. There may be other proposals, but in any case, I think we need a calm debate because we are asking important ethical questions. As for the government's position, I can tell you that we have not discussed it yet. We have therefore not adopted any position, but it is quite normal that the debate on these issues should take place in Parliament. Mrs Rohonyi, that's the answer the government wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u32	Minister, your answer has at least the merit of clarity, in that it shows that the announcements made in recent days by the PS, the MR or Ecolo are in fact nothing but wind! It is wind to make us forget the original sin of this government, that of having given in to the blackmail of the CD&V on the back of women's rights. Every day, in this country, women break the law to abort. Every day, doctors are outlawed to help them. And today, what do you tell them? You tell them, "Maybe we'll call experts again. Maybe we'll be filing new texts soon. Maybe we'll open articles for revision in two years' time." Who are you laughing at? You dare not even condemn the members of your party who question this fundamental right. A demonstration will be held in front of the Embassy of the United States. My colleagues from Vivaldi will be there. They are right, but they will also have to explain that in Belgium too, it is the ultra-conservatives who have won.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u33	Madam President, Minister, I was very surprised when I heard your President in the press say that a pension reform is no longer necessary for the PS. Comrades, I heard the president say: "For us, pension reform is no longer a must!" Excuse me? It has been decided by Mr Bacquelaine that everyone has to work in Belgium for up to 67 years. There would be a lot of exceptions. Now it is said that there will be no more reform. That's what we hear! People were forced to work until they were 67 years old. Mr. Bacquelaine had said at the time that there would be plenty of exceptions. And now that we're going to discuss these exceptions, what do I hear? The president of the PS says no, they no longer need reform! Hey! It won't happen like that! The hard jobs, the firemen, the nurses... they were promised! That makes you laugh, Mr Bacquelaine! You don't care! You've got plenty of money, quiet for the end of your career. At 67, it's good! But the firefighters, the nurses, the metal workers, all these people, they were promised exceptions and there are none. That's what's wrong! And you, Mrs. Lalieux, must correct everything the Liberals have done. What are you doing? You keep going. You're not gonna change anything! It's not okay! I come to my questions. What are you going to do about the hard jobs? Is the file in the fridge permanently or are you going to discuss it in the next few hours? Then the 1,500 euros! It's a little too easy: 1 500 euros from 2019 are not 1 500 euros from 2024! What about inflation? You don't have to take people for geese. Equivalency amounts to €1,750. I ask the question: do you intend to make real 1,500 or fake? Will you go up to 1,750 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u34	Madam Minister, it will not surprise you that we are once again standing here asking about the state of play in your announced and promised pension reform. You put yourself in a tight straitjacket to find an agreement by mid-July. The clock is ticking mercilessly. The Prime Minister is even returning from Spain early, and in the meantime your fellow Minister Vandenbroucke is also beginning to meddle. The same colleague claimed last week that it was his file instead of yours. According to the latest reports, a mini chord is being worked on in the first instance. This is not only put away by us, but also by economist Stijn Baert as completely incomplete. The drama starts with the pension bonus and the part-time pension. There would be an agreement on that. The pension bonus introduced by the Generation Pact was removed after evaluation by the Study Committee for Ageing and the High Council for Employment because of its unaffordability. The pension bonus didn't meet the expectations by far and now you will, regretfully, re-enter it. That's unbelievable. The part-time pension will also not ensure that people work longer. On the contrary, the figures show that people are getting out of the labour market just faster. About the conditions for obtaining the minimum pension, it is already quite bumblebees in the government. Now one gets it after a career of 30 years. Open Vld wants it to work effectively after at least 20 years, while you want 10 years part-time. The government's state of expansion is about to be very large. I would like to say a few words about your little problem today with your colleague, Mr De Bleeker, who warns that the absence of pension reform may lead to a significant reduction in the European Commission's re-launch money. Madam Secretary, I have one question for you. How will you land the pension reform, or should we prepare for a total crash?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u35	"The only pension plan is my retirement plan," you said last February, Madam Secretary, but is it? Your chairman, Mr Magnette, states that it is no longer necessary. Mr De Croo felt obliged to draw the pension file to himself in a desperate attempt to show that there might still be some decisiveness in the Vivaldi government in relation to the pension file. In addition, last week you were struck by Mrs De Bleeker and Mr Vandenbroucke. That's all not so good. For the next weekend, buttons will be cut. You are going to the Council of Ministers with only four niche themes and you will try to reach a mini-agreement. On the weekend or Monday, there will be great news: Mrs Lalieux will come up with a thorough pension reform. After all, all the important pension items that exist, including the limitation of ageing costs, have been passed on to Godot or, in fact, the social partners. That's basically a capitulation. In the meantime, pension bill increases to 50 billion in 2020, 60 billion in 2022. The pension measures you have taken so far have been aimed only at granting and increasing pension rights to those who have actually contributed little or nothing, while you have left the workers in the cold. Will people be rewarded if they work longer? In other words, do they have to work any longer? When will you finally come up with measures on the basis of which people who work and contribute will be convinced at the end of their careers that work also pays for retirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, a dignified old age for all who contribute, it must be that simple. That is also the only way to explain it, and that is also the only fair way. The current government has already done so with the Socialists. The minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net would never have been achieved without the socialists. We already know that we will reach that figure next summer. The question is, however, whether it will be over afterwards. Will the current government continue the line? Colleagues, pension choices are moral choices. They're forcing you to confess colour. Are you a party that is also there for part-time working women, for people who care or for people who work longer after retirement? After all, I have just heard the Flemish Interest declare that the party is against the pension bonus. I have often heard from the N-VA in committee that it wants to limit as much as possible the group entitled to a decent old age. Draw your own plan. That's the message. The previous Swedish government made you work more for less retirement. The current government with the socialists must reverse that logic. It is our view that more work is more pensionable. On the other hand, it is of the opinion that those who make a contribution are entitled to their share. For too long, however, the pension file has stood still. Now is the time to break that standstill. Madam Minister, an important step has already been taken at the beginning of the current government period. It is now time for the next step. It is good that all the cards are on the table for the debate in the government. How will you continue the pension before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u37	Madam Minister, if we were to call your job a year ago, we could call it a "postponement, chamierie en chamierie." It's been ten months since you announced that your pension reform was ready. It has been ten months since the press regularly announced a decisive kern for pensions. It's been ten months since your reform was overtaken. Lots of words and lots of ads! This morning, we all read carefully the interview with the Minister of Budget, who, under the Prime Minister's authority, publicly calls you to order. I quote: "It is time to take action rather than play poker with the future and credibility of the country". She also referred to the risk that the European Union would deprive Belgium of funds under the Recovery Plan if there was no ambitious pension reform. The Scuds were used to being fired from outside the government by party presidents. Now the Scuds are leaving from within the government! I conclude from this that your approach, which you have been presenting as ready for the last ten months, clearly does not make it possible to adopt an ambitious and indispensable reform for pensions. I am thinking of today's pensioners, tomorrow's pensioners, those who work, those who are at the end of their careers, those who are in a difficult job. We must ensure that neither our children nor our grandchildren are victims because they are in a hurry like lemons. Minister, are you still able and able to bring this reform to fruition?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u38	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the next few days there will be important discussions on the pension plan on the government's agenda before the recess. For us, several things are part of the implementation of this pension reform. I have just heard talk about 1,500 euro's pension as a socialist question, but I honestly think it is a question from many parties in the Half-Round. Each party naturally wants sound pensions for all Belgians, both in the south and in the north of the country. However, in the government negotiations and all kinds of related talks, there is a lot of discussion about how we finance this, how we keep it affordable and how we ensure that it is fair to those who contribute to the system every day. We need to find that balance in the coming period. If we want to guarantee funding and affordability, we must ensure that sufficient people are motivated to work every day and contribute to our social security. The signal we have to give is that working pays off effectively. We will have to do that with different elements in the pension deal. If people work longer, they have to have more left. Those who have spent their whole lives contributing to the system should not be left as much as those who have not contributed to the system all their lives. These are some of the parameters that are crucial for us in the story, and they are before us for discussion in the near future. Madam Minister, let me reassure you: the goal is the same, namely to provide a decent pension for every Belgian. That 1,500 euros we agreed on together. Our challenge is that in the near future we will make a good plan that also protects the other principles. I hope that you will be able to join us in this matter in the next few days, together with the Prime Minister. Madam Secretary, what is your timing for the coming time? Shall we come to an agreement? Mr Hedebouw said that there is doubt about that, but I am sure you want to move forward with that. Please confirm that to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u39	Madam Secretary, we're running out of time. However, he does not press for you, because you have your trophy, namely EUR 1500. So your chairman can easily say that you can sit back quietly. However, Europe demands more, dear friends. There is a grant of EUR 5.9 billion. The koterij must therefore be put on the verge of something. That's what's gonna happen. I hear here all the different vivaldi parties playing a different symphony. However, the test balloons are always the same, as much retirement as possible after as little work as possible. The great specialist in pensions is with Vooruit. Frank Vandenbroucke says that those working four-fifths of a career should receive the same pension as those working full-time. He's the specialist, the man who invented the Silver Fund. However, after Dexia, that was the biggest scam in our history. He also plundered the pension fund of Proximus, Belgacom, the Antwerp Harbour Company and Belgocontrol worth 5 billion euros. Therefore, until today, we pay 470 million euros per year for the pensioners of Proximus. Purple was there. Nod, Mr President, you did that to the purple government to throw the money in the budget. I have indeed left the party because of such scams, Mr Lachaert. You stayed, that's the big difference. You say that the minimum pension is already paid when you work 104 days for 10 years. The liberals are 20 years old. CD&V is still thinking. Madam Secretary, we are drowning at EUR 57 billion a year, but we are discussing the colour of the life jackets. Your measure will cost an additional EUR 3.2 billion per year. Tell me - and here I follow Mr Lachaert - how we are going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u40	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current and previous governments have rightly raised minimum pensions. However, ambitions are higher. That also states the coalition agreement. For CD&V, pension reforms must be sustainable and fair. Sustainable means budgetary sustainability. This means that the young people who start their careers today and will work for 40 to 45 years must be assured that they will have a good pension, of which they can live well. This requires solidarity between generations. This requires that any reform is budget-neutral in order to guarantee the future. Madam Minister, the government agreement says that pension reforms must be financially and socially sustainable. We support that. We agree with that. How will we do that? Colleagues, pension reforms must also be fair. Work must be waged, including in the area of pensions. That is why we need to encourage longer work so that pensions get higher. That is why we must discourage early retirement so that we can also guarantee better pensions for people. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again I am referring to the coalition agreement. Pension and employment policies are complementary and interdependent. Moreover, I am adding fiscal reforms to this. How can we guarantee better pensions for people? This is due to structural reforms in various areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u41	Minister, you must be happy. Indeed, everyone is waiting for your pension reform. You're at the center of attention. The Socialist Group is also waiting for a decision by the government for a just and social reform, but also respectful of women's careers, i.e. a feminist reform. You have already introduced the increase in minimum pensions to 1,500 euros. I understand that it may disturb some groups. In any event, this measure has been decided and voted on. This allows the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who receive this annual increase to live more in dignity. Here I would like to reassure Mr Hedebouw that, with indexation, this sum will be increased until 2024 to reach 1,700 euros. Automatic indexing is therefore also an important issue. Workers want an ambitious reform. It is this reform that you have put on the table of the government. I am thinking in particular of the measure relating to a single career condition of 42 years old, from the age of 60. This is an important step forward. This makes it possible to take account of the tenability of certain occupations. We therefore hope for a successful outcome in this matter. Today, I read and hear amazing things. Indeed, you are accused of your so-called slowness. Unlike Mr Dermagne, I will allow myself to comment on certain points, saying that we are attending the great ball of the hypocrites. Madam Minister, who is blocking who and what? Who's holding up the discussions? Do we have a chance to have a pension reform before this summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u42	Minister, I give you the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time is up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, discussions on pension reform will resume well this evening. So I will not go into the details, in order to preserve a serene climate around the table. As you know, this government wants a reform around a package of measures by July 21st. These first measures, you know them, but let me remind you: we are discussing the creation of a pension bonus and a part-time pension. These are positive, I say very positive, incentives to maintain employment after the early retirement age. We are thinking about measures to reduce inequalities between men and women: it's on the table! And as provided for in the government agreement, we are moving forward on an effective working measure or an equivalent measure and it is in this context that the Kern, in particular, evaluates the proposal put on the table by my colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke. They say we'll come with some measurements on the 21st of July. So I will ask you again today for a little patience. As far as the European Recovery Fund is concerned, pension is one of the milestones for the payment of the pension fund, but we must keep it right! Belgium has time to react, has time to act to meet European demands. Let us not add, as some of you do, confusion in such an important debate for our citizens. I would like to take this opportunity to put the points on the i. I will quote just one figure: 2.5 million! That's the number of pensioners today. And yes, the number of pensioners will increase in the years to come! It shouldn't normally be a surprise to anyone, as long as we've been waiting for it. Some here seem to forget that behind these 2.5 million pensioners are people who are afraid. They are constantly told that they cost society too much and that we need to reduce that cost. These men and women are sick of it. They're tired of being pointed at. When are we going to stop frightening citizens? When are we going to think differently than by easy solutions or by saving money on the backs of already vulnerable people? I am outraged and outraged that some, including the Secretary of State for the Budget, bring the cost of pensions on pensioners. [[Brouhahaha]] We'll deduce! Pensions are not a budgetary variable. They are not a budgetary adjustment variable. How many times will I repeat it? But how many times will the Prime Minister repeat it? He said it in an interview this summer. This is not a fiscal adjustment variable for this government. So, no, we will not reduce the right of our pensioners! Nor will we return, ladies and gentlemen, to the revalorisation of the minimum pension decided by this government. The minimum pension will be EUR 1,500 net and more per month. That's guaranteed! Final point! Mr. Hedebouw, you're petitioning. We're doing it! That is also the difference. At the same time, we will not freeze the indexation of pensions, while inflation is reaching peaks. In addition, the welfare envelope will be distributed at 100%, as provided for in the Government Agreement. So we will not save on pensions under this government, not with me, not with the socialists in this government. Colleagues, let's avoid caricatures! I am, as concerned as you are with budgetary imperatives and the importance of anticipating rising costs. The core cabinet has decided to ask the social partners for financial and social sustainability. Give them time to work. They have until the end of the year. I trust they will offer us concrete opportunities. I hope you have this confidence in the social partners (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u44	Colleagues, there's a lot of noise. [[Brouhahaha]] There were indeed about ten questions. I suggest that you give the minister two more minutes and allow each reply an additional 30 seconds, if any. Minister, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u45	You're telling me the discussions are long. That's right! It takes time. But a reform... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u46	Colleagues, get back together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u47	When you don't have much to say, you make a lot of noise! It is true that it takes time, but, ladies and gentlemen, the government wants to... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u48	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u49	This is a great vision for the citizens, Mr De Roover!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u50	We've done it many times, and that was good for you, Mr. De Roover. So now, that's enough. If you want to control the government's action, you must also let it speak. I conclude, Madam President, to say that I do not need to be threatened by the press or to be played by teachers with me. The work is being undertaken seriously. Reform is and will be discussed. I will go to Kern, you hear me, with the aim of reaching an ambitious agreement that strengthens social justice, reduces inequality and supports employment. I can only hope that all the parties around the table feel the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u51	Minister, I am pleased to note that the pension will be raised to 1,700 euros in 2024. That's positive. It had been a little blurry. You did not answer an important question, minister! You did not intend to answer the question about workers in heavy trades. You didn't intend to answer that, and it's serious, because it's the paradigm that the right-wing dictates in the debate to discuss small things. But the great absences in the debate are the exceptional measures for the hard jobs promised. You're supposed to know that. All workers in many sectors are talking about this! Do you think that in Parliament we can discuss everything and anything, not to mention this, this injustice experienced by people? How can you work up to 67 when you're fixing roofs, working in hospitals? We can't! And you're not planning anything for them? The string is fat like that! Everyone notices the maneuver that is under way, socialist comrades! Put the question of difficult jobs back on the table! Put it back! Because hundreds of thousands of workers are going to get sick today, and that's the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u52	Madam Secretary, you have not been able to convince me. Let's face it, this government has also completely failed in the pension file. Legislative koterij, which solves nothing fundamental, either in terms of long-term financing or in terms of much-needed short-term adjustments. What about the alignment of the three statutes? What about the heavy-duty professions? What about the long-term sick? We are way past the study phase, with or without social partners, evaluating and analysing it. You are right and the colleagues of Vooruit dare even say that the 1,500 euro pension has almost gone down because of the indexation, but that is purely a farmers' trick! The 1,500 euro from 2019 is barely worth 1,320 euros due to inflation. The Flemish interest wants this amount to be increased to EUR 1,650 in order to protect the purchasing power of our pensioners. Instead of messing around in the margins, for God's sake, do something! Do something so that our pensioners can enjoy a carefree old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u53	Madam Secretary, the question of warm people is: will there still be money for my retirement? You've been ignoring that question for the entire legislature. I was hoping you'd say something new with those two minutes, but nothing new under the sun. That is actually the way in which the big announced pension reform continues. Actually, it's more gossip than anything else. All sorts of things are announced and withdrawn. We, parliamentarians, must read everything in the press, then ask questions about it, but are being sent with a rag. You're asking for patience. When one sits on the Committee on Social Affairs, one learns it by itself. But the people's patience is up, Madam Secretary, they want to be action. To my regret, despite all the help lines you have invoked, you and Vivaldi fail in this file!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u54	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Of course, I wish you every success in the pension reform, because access to the minimum pension must indeed be more equitable, simpler and secure. Getting older isn't just a burden. I just said it's a moral choice. According to the Flemish interest, people should work longer for less pensions, while for us the pension bonus is very important. Mr van der Donkt, you say that there must be sufficient resources for pensions later, but we know your plans. The Swedish Government has saved only on pensions and less on pensions. That is the difference between the pension plan of the Socialists and yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u55	Madam President, I imagine we will also have two more minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u56	Ms Fonck, members have an additional 30 seconds for their reply. This has been announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u57	Madam Minister, you first announce that you are not going to answer us in order to continue the discussions, and then you announce that there is no need to add confusion. Then what are you doing? You speak a socialist speech, you speak as a socialist and in no way as a minister! You're a minister! [[(Brouhaha]] [[)]] I expected you to speak seriously as a minister. The EUR 1 500 was the easiest one to do, but there are also all the blind spots on which you never express yourself and which are likely to leave many people behind: mixed careers, replacement rates, women's situation and family dimension, valorisation of work, tenibility of trades. And there is, above all, the financing of pensions to be provided in the short, medium and long term, otherwise it will be our children and grandchildren who will pay the bill. These are all questions, Madam Minister, on which the citizens are waiting for you as a minister and not as a socialist!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u58	Madam Minister, there will be EUR 1,500 pensions for an employee who has worked a lifetime, for a self-employed person who has worked very hard and who does not have it at all today. Many people sitting at home are waiting for that. All those self-employed people who are receiving just over EUR 800 or EUR 900 today are looking forward to this reform. It is also supported by many parties. How massive is it if one falls into a spectacle like today's, now that this reform is being outlined, when one does not think about how to finance it sustainably? It doesn't seem to matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u59	With all due respect, this government is indeed expected to be reformed and we are about to implement it. But it is also expected to be serious in terms of funding. We must ensure that people who go to work every day are rewarded more for doing so and contributing to the system. We must ensure that social security is maintained and that pensions are not just a slogan but a sustainable right for people at home, something they deserve. I expect that from the government, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u60	Madam Secretary, you are a true socialist. You promise a gift of EUR 1,500 and then you say that we will ask the social partners to pay it. You're asking someone else to pay for it. Today, after Luxembourg, we have the most expensive pension system in Europe and we are receiving the lowest net pensions. You promise 1,500 euros. Fantastic, I'm 100 percent for that. An average pension for a self-employed person is 891 euros today and for a worker 1,336 euros. Who's gonna pay for that? In 1950, there was one retired per ten workers in this country. Today there is one retired per two workers. What are we gonna do now? I haven't heard any solution here. It has not been said how we will pay for it. I heard here a few months ago say that we will increase the rate of effectiveness to 80%. By when? Tomorrow you want to pay the 1,500 euros and by 2030 you want to ensure an activity rate of 80 %. In Flanders, where hard work is taking place, the figure is 75%, in Wallonia 65% and in Brussels 62%. In our multicultural community it is 44%. Madam Secretary, please stop fooling around with people's vesicles, stop squeamishing people. Just tell me exactly who's gonna pay for your party. That was my question, and that's what everyone wants to hear from you, instead of those empty promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u61	Madam Minister, pension measures are indeed not savings measures, they are measures that give security and protection. Instead of the scramble I have been reading over the last few days, and today we are hearing between liberals and socialists, we want solutions and progress. More work, higher pensions. Maintain acquired social rights. Get rid of discrimination. Take into account heavy-duty professions and people who take care of others, but also reform structuralally so that it remains affordable even tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u62	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, pension reform is a technically complex and politically sensitive issue. This afternoon's debates have shown this. If it were easy, it would be clear! In this debate, everyone should watch their nerves. The Prime Minister is absent today. However, as head of government and majority, he must also fulfill his role and fully assume his responsibilities, whistleing at the end of recreation and working for the government to succeed in this matter. Minister, you want to advance the rights of pensioners, you want more social justice, you don't want to put the burden of savings on pensioners. You're right! And the Socialist Group strongly and decisively supports you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u63	Madam President, we have had a very interesting moment, including words such as scandalux, hypocrisy, with the Socialists against the Liberals. I found that interesting and that is good for Parliament, but I have just been informed that Minister Dermagne would like to know how he will also have two minutes extra speaking time. After all, it was broken down in the middle of his discourse, which was incredibly interesting. You rightly told him to stick to his two-minute speaking time. I do not know whether there is an order in the PS of ministers who are allowed to talk more and ministers who have been denied the floor in the past. You do not know us as great defenders of Minister Vandenbroucke's policy, but of his parliamentary prerogatives. With him too, you were right to knock on the speaking time set out. Then came Minister Lalieux. Perhaps in the PS there is some kind of tent, which we do not know, but she was given two minutes extra speaking time outside the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing against that...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u64	Mr De Roover, I ask you...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u65	Mind if I finish up? It is interesting that we know where we stand. The Rules of Procedure offer certain possibilities, and if you announce at the beginning of the sitting that you want to make a certain adjustment to them, then everyone could comply with them. However, I believe that you are guilty of a particularly creative application of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to press charges again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u66	Mr De Roover, the difference is that there were nine questions. Minister Dermagne only had one question, one question!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u67	Colleague De Roover, remember this adage: "No one can invoke his own turpitude"! You want speaking times to be respected, so at least have the politeness and courtesy to hear the minister's answers rather than interrupt her constantly! You have not stopped interrupting it with various and unspeakable noises! You want to respect speaking times, so suffer that the minister can also develop her argumentation!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u68	This is a special way to welcome our new Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u69	Madam President, I also wanted to speak about speaking time. I think it is a shame for the dynamics of the debate to cut the floor to a speaker who has not finished his sentence or his reasoning. I think a little flexibility would be welcome in both directions to allow for a dynamic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u70	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we should think of new opportunities for a new Secretary of State. However, the head of the cabinet of the former Secretary of State is referred to as someone who is responsible for the mess currently in the Department of Asylum and Migration. Madam Secretary of State, instead of resolving it, you are responsible for failing to deliver on the great promises made by Mahdi when he declared that he would shorten the procedures and the waiting lists and ensure more return. He even stated literally that we could deal with him and thus with his head of the cabinet. If, after two years, we find that nothing has happened at all and we are nowhere with these promises, then I am very sad. What has happened is that the budget of Asylum and Migration has increased to as much as EUR 680 million and that the influx has also increased significantly. In 2022 alone, there were as many as 13,106 asylum applications in Belgium until the end of May, an increase of 19% compared to 2019. Mrs De Moor, the problem is not, as you mispresent it, that there is a lack of reception in this country. The problem is that the influx of asylum migrants is far too large. My last bit of hope for change has been taken away, now that your first announcement is that you want to increase the reception network, which is already very large and very expensive in this country with more than 30,000 asylum shelters, with additional emergency care. My questions therefore make sense. When will it be enough? How many shelters will the taxpayer still have to finance? Is that 35,000, 40,000, 50,000, 100,000? When will it finally be enough? The budget for Asylum and Migration amounts to EUR 680 million in the current difficult times. How much more does that have to do with it? When will it finally be enough? Should we go to EUR 1 billion for Asylum and Migration? My last fundamental and most important question is the following. What will you do, to finally reduce the inflow and increase the outflow?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, Madame de Moor welcome to Vivaldi and to this government. Welcome is also the wish that I would have wished to make to hundreds of exiled and asylum-seekers who have fled from wars, gender-based discrimination, their sexuality, their cultural group, who have fled from situations of extreme poverty or the effects of climate change. Hundreds of people who, for the most part, have travelled thousands of kilometres, sometimes in atrocious conditions, victims of push back in Croatia, rapes in Libyan prisons, people who have been refused for months in front of the Petit-Château for lack of places in the reception network and who sometimes sleep on the street. For months, Belgium has been condemned for the lack of reception of these exiles. It's been months since my Ecolo-Groen group put on the government table solutions to get out of this crisis, to relieve the staff of Fedasil who is at the end – as you know – and to guarantee every person a place in the host network. Among these solutions: to recover places not used for Ukrainian refugees and to put them in the traditional asylum network; to find places in the barracks within the Defence; to remove from the Fedasil centres people who have high rates of recognition with financial assistance for obtaining a dwelling; to rely on the solidarity network, on the field associations, the hosting and the solidarity people whom, sometimes, some have pointed at and which, today, are a solution for another migration. As you said, Madam Secretary of State, there are solutions that respect the framework of the government agreement, namely a just policy – which respects the right – and human – that renders dignity to exiled people. Madam Secretary of State, what are your solutions to put an end to this crisis of reception and to respect the rights and dignity of these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u72	Madam Secretary of State, you're going to work on Asylum and Migration. In your opinion, that's the most beautiful department. From there you can work from the Christian Democratic values. At the same time, you were introduced as a warm Thatcher. That surprised me a bit. Warm and Thatcher don't get along so well. Thatcher is the symbol of cold, antisocial policy against the working population. We can only hope that you do not have that policy in mind. Of course, no one runs away for fun. No one just leaves their country and their family behind. People run from war or misery. European migration policy fails in a violent way. The terrible images of last weekend in Melilla have made that painfully clear. We also see that Belgian asylum and migration policies are failing. The Belgian State was repeatedly condemned for refusing reception, which forced asylum seekers to sleep outside, on the streets, in the cold, in weather and wind. You have announced that you want to work on an emergency shelter. Can you make that concrete already? Will you also work on structural measures at last? The workers of Fedasil are also in despair. What will you do to meet them? We don't treat all people on the run equally. Are you making that your first item on the agenda? That was the question of 11.11.11, which launched a tough campaign when you took office. Why should the decisiveness shown for the reception of Ukrainian refugees not also be possible for all other refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u73	Colleagues, which way are we going with Asylum and Migration and what lessons do we draw from the past? Madam Secretary of State, congratulations on your appointment. At the same time, let me be clear, you have a vulnerable profession, including because you are dependent on others to achieve results. For Forward it is clear that there is a need for connection, for a connector to move things forward. After all, we know that there are waiting lists for reception and that a lasting, peaceful solution will not be in Ukraine until tomorrow. The development of shelters requires a connector. The municipalities do not make their seats available until their partner at the table sees, acknowledges and removes their legitimate concerns. Madam Secretary of State, what are you going to do to ensure the sustainability of these places? The crisis relief of Ukrainians in particular also calls for a linker, for cooperation with the Länder. In what way will you ensure that the security of Ukrainians is assured and that exploitation of Ukrainians and trafficking in human beings is avoided as much as possible? The return of persons without legal residence also requires a connector. Countries only take people back if they are taken seriously. The corona period made it difficult to expand and this is the right time for rapid acceleration. Will you sit around the table with specific countries? Madam Secretary of State, will you cooperate with municipalities, cities, other departments, fellow ministers, in particular with the Minister of Defence, and with other countries? That's what a connector does. How do you see your role in the coming period? On Twitter I read that you have solutions ready. Will you also refer it to the Chamber? You can, of course, count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u74	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. We wish you every success, and you will need it, because there is a reception crisis in this country. Asylum seekers sleep on the streets and the Belgian State is overloaded with periodic penalty payments. By the end of July, they could reach EUR 10 million. However, there are a lot of shelters. Today, 31,000 seats are occupied. That's a hell of a lot. That's as much as all the inhabitants of a city as Aarschot. In our view, this crisis of reception has three causes: the excessive influx, the excessively long asylum procedures and the much too low outflow. The figures on the influx of asylum seekers are clear: 1.04 per 1,000 inhabitants. This puts us in the sixth place of the European Union and gives us almost twice as much inflow as the average in Europe. However, we see that half of these applications come from people who have already applied for asylum in other countries, but have not yet received it there, the so-called 'Dubliners'. What needs to be done in a short time to get this crisis under control is emergency care. That is our duty, but in the medium term, the influx has to be drastically reduced and the outflow has to rise dramatically. In that context, I have a number of questions. What will you do in the short term to provide shelter for the people who are here today and on the streets? What will you do in the medium term to reduce inflow and increase outflow? Will you, for example, conduct distress campaigns, as Mrs De Block and her successor have done? Will you take the necessary steps to finally apply the Dublin Regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, allow me to congratulate you on your appointment. After these congratulations, it must be noted that you inherit a crisis that you are familiar with when you now manage what you were already managing in back office. This crisis is plural. First of all, it is humanitarian inasmuch as the organised shortage of reception places for which the Belgian State has been the subject of more than a thousand convictions since the beginning of this year 2022, leaves vulnerable people on the streets every day and every night. This crisis is institutional in so far as, for many years, this shortage, in particular because of the gradual abolition of individual reception places, places Fedasil and its staff in an impossible situation and, on the other hand, places responsibility for a dignified reception on the Regions, the municipalities, the voluntary sector and all our citizens hosting, like what happened with the platform and more recently in the management of displaced persons from Ukraine. Finally, this crisis is moral because organizing a dignified welcome is not an option, but an obligation. To allow every asylum-seeker to have a dwelling, it is not to make an air call, it is to consider his fellow in humanity with dignity. Madam Secretary of State, the reception in Belgium is in a situation of palliative care. It is no longer time for announcement, but for structural solutions to be put in place that are consistent with our international obligations and with the dignity that must be recognized by all asylum candidates. Madam Secretary of State, we know that the various actors mentioned are seeking consultation. The Minister-President of the Brussels Region and the mayors of this Region have written to you. So my questions are simple. What concrete solutions do you propose? Are you going to grab your hands out and look with all the actors for ways to get out of this crisis of reception?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I wish you every success with the many challenges. Every person who has to sleep on the street is one too many. Fedasil is in crisis. This is not a problem of recent months, but one that has been dragging on for more than four years. Meanwhile, our country has already been sentenced several times in court. We must at all costs avoid having to pay periodic penalty payments. After all, these payments could have a huge suction effect. We therefore urgently need ideas and pragmatic solutions. We must dare to think out of the box. Let me be very clear, for our group, for example, accommodation in hotels is not an option. As far as we're concerned, look at your colleagues. Defense has tents, domains and place. You may need to examine, together with your colleague from the Defence Department, Mrs Dedonder, how additional care can be provided, care in a humane manner. Those seeking solutions must, of course, also dare to identify problems. About half of the people applying for asylum here already have a procedure in another EU Member State. They have a right to care. We have to send them back there. There is a need for a better and faster approach at European level. The asylum procedures should be shorter. The department has already received additional staff. Your predecessor started with the Migration Code. Keep up the good work. I have two questions. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, you may have heard me say that Asylum and Migration is the department of excellence where we feel that we are not alone in this world. The war in Ukraine and the situation in Afghanistan also make us feel. Many people are seeking refuge in Europe today. This is seen both in our neighbouring countries and with us. Over the past two years, many measures have been taken to improve the situation, both in the short and in the long term. Investments were made in faster file handling through historical staff reinforcement and additional reception facilities were also created. This government has also taken the step towards a structural buffer policy rather than the jojo policy of the past. Today, the pressure on the reception network is so high that not all asylum seekers can be met on the day of their notification. As a result, we are faced with considerable periodic penalty payments. Let it be clear that people don't pay taxes to watch them go up on periodic penalty payments. We will do everything we can to resolve this situation. There are three main pillars for me to find solutions. First of all, we need to work on flows. The reception system in our country is under considerable pressure because of the large number of people who have already applied for asylum in another European country and who have sometimes even been recognised as refugees there. Someone who has already applied for asylum in France, Germany, the Netherlands must wait for his answer in one of these countries and cannot simply apply for asylum in Belgium. This undermines the legitimacy and sustainability of our asylum system. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept it. That is why we will strengthen existing prevention campaigns, with emphasis on transit countries and other European countries. For example, we can advise those who have already applied for asylum elsewhere to do so again in Belgium. In addition, measures will be taken to ensure an efficient way of working on the return of these persons. The covid crisis is almost over and we must do everything we can to ensure a more adequate transfer under the Dublin Regulation. The rules are here. They're clear and they need to be followed. Secondly, in addition to working on flows, additional capacity is needed in the short term. To this end, Fedasil will continue its efforts over the past few months, but will not be able to do so alone. I therefore call for an emergency reception structure for which we must join forces within the government in order to create short-term spaces. If this can be done in the Netherlands, Germany or even Poland, why don't we do it here? Thirdly, we must also work to increase the flow out of reception; the length of stay of asylum seekers in the centres must be shorter. The covid crisis is behind us and we have been able to recruit additional staff through a decision by the Council of Ministers. The number of decisions will then have to increase significantly in the coming period. At our request, CGRA has also taken steps to make its internal operations more effective. Finally, we must continue to work on structural solutions. They are largely at European level. It cannot continue to be the case that individual Member States wishing to apply the right to asylum correctly must continue to take the hits of a failing European migration policy. European solidarity means bringing together stronger borders, a fair distribution of those seeking protection in Europe, and joint efforts to speed up the return of those who do not need protection. We want to do our part, but we expect others to do the same. I will therefore continue to play a leading role at European level and fight for better and fairer migration management. Europe, that is us, and we must ensure that it works better than it does today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, what you're saying actually sounds very unbelievable. Instead of solving the problem properly, you want to make it even bigger. You must limit the influx and, preferably, simply stop instead of continuing to expand that shelter endlessly. What you want to do is just keep mopping with the tap open, while the whole of Flanders is begging you to finally turn off that crane. At the moment when Flemings are no longer able to fill their shopping car, when Flemings can no longer pay their energy bill at the end of the month, when Flemings can no longer refuel their car, you must put our people first instead of asylum seekers and illegal migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, welcome, welcome to Vivaldi, welcome to a just and humane migration policy. Some have compared you to Margaret Thatcher, a warm Margaret Thatcher. You know that's not my favorite political model. On the other hand, I would like to advise you to draw inspiration from a political woman closer to your political family: Angela Merkel. Angela Merkel, who had the courage, despite the fear, despite the fake news, to welcome a million Syrians during a refugee crisis. You're told that you're a technician and maybe that's what we need in the end: solutions and less communication. Also, I encourage you. I wish you a good job, I wish you every success for yourself, personally, but also for Vivaldi, for a just and humane migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u80	Madam Secretary of State, you obviously have a lot of work ahead of you. You will be able to count on my firm, left-wing opposition in committee. In any case, I wish you every success. I should like to take a look at the statements made by Mr Van Langenhove. Yesterday, on the social media, he claimed that it was the PVDA's fault, and especially the refugees, that the wages of the hard-working Flemings were being pushed down. That is a typical example of distribution and control policy of Flemish Interest. The low wages are not the fault of the refugees, but of parties such as Flemish Interest. Flemish Interest has here, in Parliament, supported the law that blocks wages. And that, ladies and gentlemen, may also be said. [[Objections to the banks]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u81	Madam Secretary of State, you made it clear: it is now time to act. The world is insecure. No one knows how the war in Ukraine, in Europe, will develop. No one knows how corona will affect our return policy. This is what we do know: together we are stronger and we can shape the asylum and migration policies of the future. In recent weeks, your department has also had a lot of talk about politics. That phase must be completed now and is now over. You've got a lot of work to do, it's time for action. You can count on our group for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u82	Madam Secretary of State, emergency care is indeed needed in the short term, for which you have our support. However, this emergency care can only be temporary and not structural. Even more reception places will only increase the influx. The approach must therefore be changed. We therefore propose that we really organise the disarray campaigns abroad, make Belgium less attractive and therefore advise the people there not to come here because there is no room anymore. The procedures must also be speeded up, because that too, ladies and gentlemen, is a human and humane policy. We need to make it clear to asylum seekers quickly what they are up to. For us there is only a durable solution, the influx has to go down drastically and the outflux goes up drastically.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u83	Madam Secretary of State, in the late 1990s, in the 2000s, in 2013 and 2014 following the war in Syria, each time we dealt with people fleeing the war and coming to seek asylum. The number of people in our territory today is no greater than the number we have known before. This number, the pressure on the network and this asylum crisis cannot be used as an excuse. You have indicated that you want a structural strengthening of the reception capacity and for that you will always have the support of my group. Asylum policy and reception policy deserve one word: human dignity. Today, seeing dozens of people sleeping in the street around the Petit-Château does not meet our definition of human dignity. This dignity must be regained and everything that will be done to recover it will be encouraged and supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u84	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Your so-called image of warm Thatcher has proved to be true again today. You're strict, but you're just. You are strict in that you state that the Dublin regulations must be complied with. Europe will have to take responsibility and we will continue to work on discouragement campaigns. You are just in saying that asylum seekers arriving must quickly know where they stand and that they must be offered bed, bath and bread in a humane manner. We call on you to work on shelters together with your colleague in the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u85	Madame de Moor, we thank you for your first experience with oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u86	Mrs. Pas, would you like to intervene? Why should we come back to this question again? The oral questions have been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u87	Madam President, Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure refers to a personal statement. If you think that it is not a personal fact when a Member of Parliament mentions the name of another Member of Parliament and puts in his mouth gratuitous claims, then I would like to know from you what is a personal fact, because that is not clear to me at all. If that is not a personal fact and you do not apply the Rules of Procedure, you have already been very creative with all the speaking time and appointments, then I wonder why we still have a Rules of Procedure at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u88	From the moment Mr. Van Langenhove spoke just before and that is the same theme... Oral questions are not an opportunity for debate! I won't go any further. That's it! That's enough! I'll move on to the agenda. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u89	I ask you for a little respect. You won't have the personal fact. There is no debate in the oral questions. Point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u90	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1590: Steven Matheï - 2218: Hugues Bayet, Malik Ben Achor, Ahmed Laaouej, Laurence Zanchetta, Hervé Rigot, Patrick Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr. Van Hees, referring to his written report. I call Mr Van der Donkt, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u92	I shall speak in place of Mr Van der Donkt. Where is the Minister, anyway? He's not small, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u93	We've seen him. He's probably gonna show up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u94	Mr Van Peteghem is entering the Chamber, so Mr De Roover can start his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u95	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem knows how much I appreciate when he attends the debates. There are various provisions here. As usual with such legislation, it is a very wide package. This was also discussed extensively in committee, including by our colleague, Mr Joy Donné, who is no longer with us today. Fortunately, that sounds more dramatic than it really is. Nevertheless, on the one hand, we deplore his departure and his joy, on the other hand, his replacement. Minister, we will not repeat the discussion in committee. The comments made by Mr Donné in committee will of course remain valid. I do have a few more points. After all, we are sitting here in plenary, so perhaps we should limit ourselves to a few points. For example, on the tax-shelter idea, we have a few more questions and comments that we need to address in plenary. In principle, we are not opposed to the idea, but of course we are opposed to the idea of extra koterij. You intend to carry out a major fiscal reform. We are anxiously waiting for this, because we are in principle in favour of it in the interests of clarity. Pending this major fiscal reform, however we turn it or turn it around, it will be added koterij, which in turn makes it more difficult to break them down afterwards. We look forward to the implementation of the proposed provisions for the audiovisual sector, which will undoubtedly be adopted today, and our abstention will not prevent the adoption of the draft law - a few shortcomings which could lead to discussion. For example, the draft provides that the production company may rely on a flat-rate calculation method for indirect costs. The use of the maximum margin depends on the evidence showing that the producer carries out all the activities. Of course, the question arises as to when these conditions will be met. It is our conviction that the legislative text is somewhat unclear. Tax measures that create uncertainty will, of course, lead to unpleasant discussions afterwards. The taxpayer does not know whether he is within or outside the provisions. Conversely, control must be exercised. In fact, there was no demand from the sector for a change in the modalities in force. You made that change here after all. However, it is our belief that this is not necessarily an improvement. In a second point, I'm going to cut into the game sector. Flanders has built up quite a few credentials in that sector in the past. In particular, West Flanders is an important region in its development. In 2020, this sector even accounted for an impressive turnover of EUR 80 million, with an undeniable growth margin. The idea of a tax shelter is therefore, in principle, absolutely justifiable in order to provide additional growth opportunities for that sector. In your draft law, you have included some of the texts of former colleague Steven Matheï. I am no longer in a position to thank him personally for this, so I would like to thank him indirectly and ask Mr Verherstraeten to look at the report from this sitting. As regards your draft law, we would like to make a few comments here. Article 19 (2) states that there must be agreement with the cultural test as approved by the European Commission. Culture is, of course, a competence of the Länder. That is why I ask you to what extent you intend to follow up on this. A cooperation agreement seems appropriate to me, to the extent that you do not wish to impose powers. At the committee meeting we also referred to the consequences of Rule 19 (3). The European Commission requires that there should be no restriction or obligation on expenditure in the European Economic Area. We are faced with the question of how far the wording, as you have modulated the draft law, avoids or helps to prevent its use while at the same time carrying out its activities elsewhere. I do not think that the latter is the intention of a tax shelter. That is why we want to warn against that risk. Then, of course, we come to the problem that we now have three tax shelters. To what extent can you ensure that the principle of equality is guaranteed? Perhaps people think that in one tax shelter they get less room for manoeuvre than in the other, and possibly they take offense. In the absence of a number of points, allow me to mention the tax increase due to the late filing of an income tax return, if I am allowed to do so. That's right, because I didn't name any names and I got the floor. The Court of Cassation held on 21 April 2022 that a tax increase and an administrative fine should not be imposed for the same purpose. The tax authorities had imposed a fine and a tax increase on the file on which the judgment was based for the late submission of a declaration. If both sanctions do not have a complementary purpose, this is a violation of the principle of non bis in idem. I believe that we must take into account that judgment of the Court of Cassation, even though it is only recently. It seems to us that late submission should not, by definition, be seen as a deliberate act. Where contact is made with the person concerned, it should nevertheless be possible to rectify the situation. I do not think we should necessarily assume that the taxpayer is in bad faith. The last point I would like to raise in plenary is the extension of the possibility for customs officers and police officers to seize vehicles for unpaid tax and non-fiscal debts. I don't think that's an uninteresting thing to say. Some people attach great importance to their cars. Probably that touches them at the heart of their personality when one can grasp them in it. Anyway, that's more like a personal feeling. I myself drive a very tiny vehicle. The Council of State, however, is less emotional in this and looks at the case law and the doctrine of justice. He wondered whether the measure could exist with the right of ownership. The Council of State states that the current measure may still be justified by the nature of the amounts due, but that this is not the case for all other tax and non-fiscal claims. Minister, I think it would be extremely interesting if you could express your opinion on this in plenary, also with a view to a later discussion of the matter. Parliamentary debates and such debates - that is the least we have as a Parliament - play a role in a later interpretation of the reading of legislation. So your answer will undoubtedly interest lawyers in a later stage and me in a somewhat earlier stage, namely right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u96	Madam President, Minister, to address this pot-pourri - although it is not so "pourished" that it has a lot of good measures, so it may not be the right expression! - in short, to mention this package of various tax provisions, I would like to go back to two aspects: 6% VAT on bras and tax shelter. The first measure, which targets bras and jerseys specially designed for women who have undergone mastectomy, was of paramount importance to us. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I tabled a bill last September. In October it was included as a priority bill by my group on the agenda of the Finance Committee. This measure is not expensive. The Court of Auditors had estimated it at EUR 200 000. Moreover, this tax provision is essential for the thousands of Belgian women who unfortunately suffer from breast cancer and who, thanks to this text, can be helped in their fight. You join us, since my proposal has been taken up as it is – and even as copy-paste – in your project. I thank you, Minister, for your confidence in my writings. My group welcomes the fact that we are voting on such a provision today. Indeed, as I said in committee, the Foundation for the Fight against Cancer estimates that about 11,000 women are affected annually by breast cancer. I will not repeat all my comments, since they are included in the developments of the project, but I will simply remind you that if we wanted these bras and swimsuits adapted to the prostheses, as well as the prostheses for swimming, to be able to benefit from a VAT reduction of 21 % to 6 %, it is because we consider that, when the disease strikes, financial considerations cannot constitute a brake either on the course of care or on the well-being – to the extent possible. With this in mind, I would like to point out that my colleague Laurence Zanchetta and I have tabled in the Committee on Health a motion for a resolution which asks the government for two things. The first is to assess the conditions for reimbursement, as well as the possibility of increasing the amount of health care insurance intervention in the payment of capillary prostheses for alopecia caused by chemotherapy or irradiation. The second objective is to determine the conditions under which health care insurance may be used in the cost of bras and swimsuits adapted to external breast prostheses and swim aids when sold by a licensed bander. As the Think-Pink association says on its website, a bra is indispensable. It must of course be adapted to the woman's stature but also to the prosthetics chosen. The price of this type of support can rise to 70 euros, a cost that is obviously not insignificant for many women. Furthermore, as the association also indicates, scientific research clearly shows that moving has a positive effect on fatigue and loss of fitness due to treatment. Women who regularly play sports during chemotherapy suffer significantly less from side effects. Through the tabling of our texts, the bill and the motion for a resolution, what we want is to enable all women who are affected by breast cancer to feel better because it can clearly contribute to healing. We are fully pleased to have been able to move this debate forward and welcome the vote on this future provision. There is still a very important question, Minister, since many women are listening to us today. Can you give us a more precise date on the entry into force of these provisions, especially since we arrive during the holiday period and, for the purchase of swimsuits, it could please many women? The second point concerns the Tax Shelter cinema and the opening to the gaming. This chapter poses a little more difficulty for my group. We have already had the opportunity to discuss it at length in committee. I shall therefore make a summary report of the points which we find problematic. The first is first of all the 18 per cent expenditure package. As far as the latter is concerned, we are not convinced at all. I believe that we are making a mistake not to include indirect expenditure. I'll explain. Currently in law, the 18 per cent flat rate is calculated on the basis of direct and indirect costs. This 18% includes the remuneration and costs of production, and this works. But what is proposed in your project is to add in the 18% the fees and commissions paid in connection with the recruitment of undertakings which conclude a framework agreement, so if I sum up, the commissions of intermediaries. Of course, this makes it possible to lock up the amounts that are often requested by intermediaries who are those who might want to abuse the Tax Shelter the most. This is a step forward that we can salute. On the other hand, at the same time, you remove indirect costs from the 18 % calculation base, which doesn't really make sense because if I take the case of Wallimage in Wallonia or even of the VAF (the Flanders Audiovisual Fund), like all the other European systems, they use direct and indirect costs as the basis for calculation. We are therefore going to be the small Belgian island in the middle of Europe that does not follow the same rules. That's a first problem. The second problem: as one adds to a category of costs related to intermediaries, it is surprising to remove at the same time part of the basis of calculation. We have asked a whole series of questions in committee, but we are really not convinced of the validity of the measure. On this point, we will really have to re-analyse the situation in the coming weeks, otherwise I believe there is a real risk for the film industry in our country, and I think that is not the will of this text at all. I would like to draw your attention to this point and to the need to re-analyse the situation quickly. As far as gaming is concerned, we obviously understand the idea of supporting gaming, because it is a sector of future oriented towards modernity and in full expansion. However, questions remain unanswered and I do not think I am the only one asking you these questions, Minister, since you have probably read the white card of Pieter-Jan Van De Weghe, who is not a socialist but is a member of the Flemish Liberal League. It makes the same observation as the one we put forward in committee, namely that the extension of the mechanism to the European Economic Area leaves us puzzled, particularly in terms of control by the administration. I know that we have a lot of talent in our administration, but I still need to know how the Tax Shelter cell will be able to analyse invoices from all the countries of the European Economic Area, whether in Romanian or Portuguese. You probably have a list of our officials' multiple skills, but I think it's still a problem and I don't see how we're going to avoid fraud mechanisms. This is the first grievance. This extension also leaves me puzzled in relation to the economic and employment benefits that are possible also in Belgium because, for the Tax Shelter cinema, it is known that a large part of the expenditure has to be made in Belgium. But for the kidg, since there is no cultural exception, this is not the case. So you're sending us back to the cultural test. Indeed, the question of cultural testing and the coming into force of the law seems to us crucial. In the project, you refer to the cultural test that is, for example, used by Wallimage. However, it only makes sense when it is an organization that chooses the projects it subsidizes. Wallimage is obviously not going to subsidise a project that will not produce any return effects in Belgium. It is contrary to its primary object. For the Tax Shelter, things are totally different because here there is no choice of project. It's automatic. That means there are no spillovers. There is no control of the fallout. We really think that the cultural test will have to put a whole series of tags, much more important than what is currently the case at Wallimage - I think it is the same for the VAF. Otherwise, I fear that we will open the door to tax optimisation. You have nevertheless been very clear in committee: this is not your wish at all, nor ours. It's a problem that's going to have to be solved. I would like to remind you that we are still very far from the discussions we had in this committee when we asked for at least 50% employment benefits. At least 50% employment. I read the comments of the time: "The cultural test guarantees that 50% of the wage costs incurred must have been incurred in the national territory" – in Belgium, therefore. "Earnings represent a very large part of the cost of developing a video game, almost half of the total expenditure will have to be made in Belgium." This, of course, seemed acceptable to us. But here, there is a clear risk of financing projects that will have nothing to do with Belgium. I do not understand the value of financing projects that may be very well, but in the case of an Italian project, a Polish project or a Hungarian project, I do not see what is of interest to our gaming sector and the economic benefits that we might expect. Minister, could you give us some additional assurances about the expected economic benefits? I'd be happy to. In addition to the risk, in our view, of slipping because of the lack of a framework for economic or employment benefits in Belgium, we also do not understand the fact that the entry into force is no longer conditional on the approval of a cooperation agreement. This clearly means that there may not be a cultural test. As currently worded, the new law proposes that each of the Communities prepare its own cultural test, without any cooperation or agreement. If we want to create a war between the Communities, and still a fierce liberal economy, this is perhaps the best way, because if a Community is not ready, it is worse! The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2023. There will probably be unfair competition. There will be legal remedies. There'll be a lot of trouble. It still seems a little complicated to me. In conclusion, I confirm to you that we obviously support the gaming sector and that solutions must be found. But there are still some questions. We really believe that the article on entry into force needs to be amended in order to link this entry into force with the approval of a cooperation agreement. We must also, of course, be able to put much more stringent benchmarks in terms of economic benefits and employment, so that the Tax Shelter does not finance foreign projects without any return effects for our country, which would still be a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u97	Minister, you seem to be delivering another potpourri to Parliament. It's not the words of the opposition, it's the words of your coalition partner. Minister, I said last week during the budget debate that you started your term as a minister with great ambition. You'd be like some kind of bulldozer to tear down the tax houses in this country at last. You would also be preparing a comprehensive tax reform to modernise, simplify and make the tax system fairer and more neutral. However, with the announcement of a study day next week, we have not yet seen anything of this tax reform. You will get no further than what we are seeing again today, another bill containing various tax provisions. Mr Bayet has just referred to it as a potpourri, and that is not entirely unjustified. So you will get no further than here and there some plumbing work on our existing tax system. Instead of abolishing tax barnyards, your government is just building on it. Anyone who has recently completed his tax letter could only see that it has become a lot more complicated in recent years. This year, a declaration form again contains 10 codes more than last year. Meanwhile, there's a record number of 839 codes on our tax bill. This government is clearly not in a position to simplify the tax situation and finally tackle the huge tax burden in this country. On the contrary, we have seen nothing but more taxes under this government. However, there are also good things in what is going on here, but there are also things in which we have comments. So allow me to deal with a certain part of these various tax provisions, namely the tax shelter scheme. You know that my party supports the tax shelter's fiscal favor regime, as well as its extension to the electronic games sector, the so-called gaming sector. My home port Kortrijk is also the city with college Howest and the world-famous digital arts and entertainment course, internationally known as digital arts and entertainment. In five years, this programme has been selected three times as the world's best gaming programme. Mr De Roover, Kortrijk, our Golden Trail city, is almost the digital capital of Flanders and the centre of the Flemish digital games industry. Students from all over the world are coming down to our Golden Trajectory city to follow that training. Unlike many others who come down to our Golden Trail city, all these foreign students usually return to their country of origin after their education, but that is a debate that would lead us too far now. However important for the debate is the problematic fact that many of our Flemish graduates also go abroad after their training. That's a brain drain we need to avoid. It is not only important that we anchor the training in Flanders, but also that we anchor the gaming industry and employment in Flanders. Of course, the tax shelter scheme in question costs the state treasury some money, as a kind of fiscal favor regime, but can of course also raise money for the state treasury, because job creation ultimately also benefits the state treasury. However, that is where the positive story ends, which we support for the sake of clarity. What is before us today, however, goes much further and is, as far as we are concerned, a bridge too far. The extension of the tax shelter is not limited to the Belgian territory. The European Commission considered that the Belgian plans would give an unfair competitive advantage to other players in the European market, quod non. As a result, non-Belgian companies can also actively use the tax shelter in Europe and the Flemish Interest does not agree with that at all. This means, in practice, that Flemish taxpayers' money will be used to finance the tax shelter of foreign companies. The fact that foreign companies may also use the tax shelter will increase their cost. This goes beyond Mr Matheï's proposal, which we originally supported. For the Flemish interest, it is very clear that, in these difficult times, every penny of taxpayers' money must be used primarily for our people and our companies, not for foreign companies. Moreover, this tax shelter scheme offers no guarantee that the costs of production are incurred in Flanders or by extension in Belgium. Indeed, this tax shelter scheme does not impose any obligation on the gaming sector to allow production to take place physically on the Flemish territory or by extension Belgian territory. We are not alone in this criticism, by the way. It is particularly regrettable that no report was produced on the discussion in committee. I have noted that Mr Leysen is not registered as a speaker today. In committee, however, he was extremely critical of what you have presented. I would just like to quote a passage from that committee's report. It can be read that Mr Leysen said: 'that Parliament must keep the whole scheme under review in the near future in order to determine whether the instrument, as it is used today, is still in line with what was originally intended'. Flemish Interest shares that view. We will therefore abstain from voting on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u98	Madam President, Minister, we must first look forward to seeing that the tax shelter system is producing results. Indeed, our cinema, both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking, is inscribed on the map of the world from all points of view. We saw him again recently in Cannes. This system has developed our sector economically and has produced very good results, with, as colleagues have pointed out, the installation of most of the expenditure in Belgium, particularly in the field of employment, in a range of areas. Foreign firms and foreign producers come to Belgium to do things; this generates economic development in our country. Building on this success, we have extended this system to the performing arts, which is a very good thing because it also works well. Large operators in our home, whether operas or orchestras, use it and manage to have culture co-financed by the private sector, which we believe is fundamental. I know this is a problem for my colleague Van Hees. Today, the will exists to extend it to the gaming. Even if we think this is a good option, we have to put barriers in place. In the discussions on the first draft, we saw that it had a whole series of difficulties. We have discussed this with colleagues and with your firm, which has been very receptive. There have been many improvements to the text. We are very pleased with the way it happened. Unfortunately, there are still some still problematic or unclear elements that would merit an evaluation. My colleague Bayet spoke about the current percentage that will be applied as early as 18%, with the 10% that concerns the producer. The fact that there is a percentage for the producer is a good thing. It is a pity that it is indicated that this is a maximum percentage and not a pure and simple percentage. The main problem in these 18% is the restriction of the scope of Belgian direct expenditure and not direct and indirect expenditure. It is well known that the VAF in Flanders and Wallimage in Wallonia, but also the whole sector at world level, use as a basis of calculation the elements of direct and indirect expenditure. This may be a problem. We'll see about it. This plan must be evaluated. On the intermediation commission, even the administration generally agrees on a percentage. But this percentage does not exist in the texts. It would have been preferable to indicate a percentage of intermediation. So there is a risk – and it was one of my fears when we decided to expand – that there will always be a broad dispute where the state is condemned by a misapplication of the law. This is a problem because convictions are not enforced. I have already reported it to you and I will continue to do so, and the cell that is sentenced to the court will have to enforce the law and not continue to operate in the same way. With regard to entry into force, the concept of eligible work and procedures, there is still vagueness and impreciseness. We will see how this is going, but we will have to evaluate it. As far as gaming is concerned, there is a risk in relation to the escape of capital abroad. As much as we have recognized schools in Belgium, we feel that our brains are going elsewhere. But there are studios at home and we must work with the Communities to develop the sector. If there are any studios in our house, the brains will stay with us. There is a risk and it will have to be evaluated in a year. You have proposed an evaluation and that is good news because, when you adopt an ambitious text, you have to give yourself an opportunity to check that it is working well. So we'll be on the rendezvous in a year. For the rest, we will support your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a draft law containing various provisions is always a wide range of proposals. This includes the adjustment of the tax shelter and, more specifically, its extension to the gaming sector. I would like to pay tribute to our former colleague Roel Deseyn, who put forward proposals on this subject at the time, and to our good colleague Steven Matheï. Colleagues, the success of the tax shelter in the film sector demonstrates the usefulness and added value of these provisions, as they have further developed the Belgian film internationally, thanks to these external sources of funding. It is a good thing that we have done the same for the performing arts. In any event, this enlargement can give an additional boost to the sector which is active in the three regions. This is a good thing. We have schools in Kortrijk, Limburg, Namur. Those schools deliver talent. This also ensures corporate clusters, manpower and women's strength in those corporate clusters, allowing them to work successfully internationally. It is good that we have opened this up. I would also point out that this is in line with Flemish policy. I refer to the Flemish gaming fund of Minister Dalle. Several governments, in different areas of competence, which reinforce each other, are a good thing. I therefore hope that the success of the tax shelter for the film sector and the boost it has given to the film sector can be repeated for the gaming sector. We will indeed evaluate this, and then I will review Mr Piedboeuf's statement. Eleven fractie zal says steunen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u100	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a bill with various tax provisions. There are many of these provisions. I won't comment on them all. I shall confine myself to commenting on two of them, namely the tax shelter and the taxation of unemployment benefits. As far as the tax shelter is concerned, in this case the tax shelter video games, as Mr Pieboeuf pointed out, in substance, I have a somewhat critical analysis of the very philosophy of the tax shelter, which is of liberal inspiration. In fact, his breeder, Didier Reynders, is a pure and hard liberal. It is, in a way, a privatization of cultural policy, since tax deductions are offered to investors who have nothing to do with the cultural world – they are mainly banks – to put money in cultural productions. Finally, it is the banks of our country that become ministers of culture and decide which cultural projects will or will not be supported. That is our position on the substance. That said, it is true that the world of cinema is strongly attached to the tax shelter given the weakness of the public resources received for this sector. The same applies to the performing arts. However, this project undermines this tax shelter. I therefore find it difficult to understand the members of the majority who are defending this system and who are going to vote for this text. A carte blanche was written by the Union des producteurs francophones de films (UPFF), which sounds the alarm for two reasons. First, this bill aims to make changes to the tax shelter system, with a downward review of eligible expenditures. Secondly, since the tax shelter is part of a liberal logic of competition, there is now unfair competition from the new small video game industry with the tax shelter video games. UPFF believes that there will be unfair competition because the tax shelter video games are more straightforward and will attract investors to it than others. As a result, cinema, audiovisual and performing arts will suffer. Even the liberal Pieter-Jan Van De Weghe of the Liberaal Vlaams Verbond believes that "a tax shelter for the video game industry is a bad idea". He makes four criticisms, which I shall sum up: - The extension of the tax shelter to video games is not limited to Belgium since the European Commission has imposed that non-Belgian companies active in Europe can benefit from the system. The federal government is therefore organizing a plundering of the Belgian treasury for the benefit of foreign companies. The minister will surely declare that he has put beacons. No, the beacons are completely inadequate. Belgium therefore offers the world its tax shelter. Let the whole world take advantage of Belgian public finances! - The budgetary cost of the measure. - Unlike the audiovisual sector, there is no obligation for the video game industry to ensure that its production takes place physically on Belgian territory. As a result, gaming workers are extremely flexible and their work can be done outside Belgium. - The video game industry is in perfect economic and financial health. It has impressive growth figures year after year. Therefore, why give this tax gift to a sector that does not need it? The second point I want to address is the taxation of unemployment benefits. I'm going to draw up a quick history. I raised a hare in the Finance Committee a few months ago. Minister, your measure to reduce the tax on unemployment benefits had led to a collateral damage to making unemployment benefits taxable, which so far had not been taxed. To sum up, all the beneficiaries – you claim that this concerns only a few people – who only have unemployment benefits throughout the year and who are in the gross annual income bracket between €16,000 and €19,000 today pay no tax. With the new bill, these recipients will pay tax. They're going to pay a lot, going from zero to sometimes a thousand euros. As a first step, Mr. Minister had walled in a rather confusing mutism. Then, at second reading in plenary, he finally committed himself to correcting the bill he had put to our vote last March. Today, in a way, he's coming to fix his mistake. That is positive – and it must be stressed, when it is. For fiscal year 2023, it will be the same as before. In other words, those who receive unemployment income between €16,000 and €19,000 will not pay tax. That's the good news. Unfortunately, there is also the bad thing: that, as of fiscal year 2024, this tax reduction will reach - 20%; the following year, - 40%; then, - 60%, - 80% and - 100%. This means that after five years, the correction introduced by the Minister will be cancelled. It's obviously incomprehensible. Why impose a measure to unblock it immediately? The Minister argues that maintaining this tax-free reduction would run counter to the government's activation policy. Secondly, and I quote, "it cannot be justified that unemployed people who return to work for a limited period of time during the taxable year have a net income after tax lower than if they had remained unemployed". In other words, maintaining the non-taxation of these unemployed would result in discrimination between them and those who accumulate taxable wages and unemployment benefits. I hear the minister's arguments, but they don't seem valid to me. First of all, the activation policy is, let's say, of a corporate nature. Rather, it should be called "hunting the unemployed" or "hunting the sick". In the 19th century, Karl Marx – Madam President of the House, reassure me, the Rules of the House allow us to quote him in the Chamber? – referred to it as the "reservation industrial army". Unemployed people who are in a hurry to find a job to survive are forced to accept low wages and working conditions. This principle existed in the 19th century and was called the "reservation industrial army"; today it is called the policy of activation of the government. The minister's other argument is discrimination. You are raising the risk of discrimination, minister, but what are you doing to address this discrimination? You're levelling from the bottom. You say some people have a tax bill and some don't, so we're gonna put a tax bill on everyone. This is how you deal with the problem of discrimination when you could also have done the opposite, that is to say, withdraw the tax bill from each other in order to avoid this discrimination. Finally, what is not normal is that someone who receives income that is at the level of unemployment benefits – and we know that they are not high in our country – can be taxed. It's just a question. An annual income of more than 16,090 euros, with your project, will now be gradually taxed. Let us remember that 16,000 euros a year is 1,340 euros gross per month! Who here, whatever their income, can say that it is normal for someone who receives from 1 340 euros gross per month to pay tax? No one, I think. And yet, that is what you are going to vote for, and that is what the minister is putting before us as a bill. You find it normal, minister, that from 1 340 euros per month, we are subject to tax! It's obviously incomprehensible. Maybe for someone like you who gets that amount in two days, it's easier to accept than for others, but in any case, for the most part people in this country, it's totally incomprehensible. We cannot support such provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u101	I have explained in detail my analysis of this bill and in particular the extension of the tax shelter in the Finance Committee. I really have nothing to add to that. The only comment I would like to make is that I submitted the questions to which the Minister could not answer in writing. I look forward to the answer in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr De Roover, we will indeed miss Mr Donné in committee. I would like to thank him and pay tribute to the way in which he intervened in committee and asked the right questions. I hope that your group will choose the right replacement to sit around the table with the same attitude and conviction. I have already answered many questions in committee, especially those relating to the tax shelter. I would like to come back to the percentages of 10% and 18% that have been fixed. It was noted that there was no support for this change. I would like to point out that these adjustments have been made in consultation with the sector. At that 10% we have just clarified with the listing of activities the case that not all activities have been carried out or carried out by the producer. Mr Bayet, the impact of 18% on direct costs was also discussed with the sector, which also sought to balance the desiderata of all stakeholders. Of course, we also agreed that an evaluation would be carried out quickly in the government's lap. As far as cultural tests are concerned, reference was made to the powers, but we have now explicitly incorporated that cultural test into the law. An avenant will also be developed and added to the existing cooperation agreement so that cooperation between the communities and the federal government can be further strengthened and improved. Of course, the main question, which is a concern, is this: is there no concern that the activities will take place abroad? We've just taken away that concern with the cultural test. The Flemish Audiovisual Fund and Wallimage are good examples of this. That is precisely where a payback effect is foreseen for our country. This way of working was accepted by the European Commission. Territorial requirements are difficult in the shelter itself, but this is included in the cultural test, which can remove the fear that these activities would occur mostly abroad today. For the rest, I have also been particularly supportive of this proposal and of the draft submitted on the tax shelter. I would particularly like to thank Mr Matheï, who is no longer in Parliament, but who has put a great deal of work into it, for his work, just like Mr Deseyn. I have two more questions from Mr De Roover, which I would like to mention briefly. You have just said that in the case of the tax increase and the non-taxation or late declaration, we must not assume that one is too bad faith. It would still be wrong. Of course, we do not assume that the taxpayer acts in bad faith. As far as seizures are concerned, I can confirm that that measure does not constitute a breach of property rights. This is not a withdrawal of ownership, but a temporary posting as long as customs activities are needed at a specific location. Customs administration never becomes the owner of premises and places. I can add that customs offices and premises are already being made available to them today. The main purpose of these provisions is to ensure that a clear, modern legal basis is provided for in the legislation. I think I have answered most of your questions. I had already answered most of the questions very extensively in committee. Thank you all for your support and look forward to further developing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u103	Minister, despite the fact that Mr Donné is irreplaceable, I will try to do so. You say that the cultural test must provide a guarantee that there is no abuse of the possibility of using the tax shelter and still organise the activities out of port. I don't know if that's robust, but the future will tell. Mr Piedboeuf spoke of a possible defect in the wording, and Mr Leysen's statement also points to this. So that question is legitimate. As far as robustness is concerned, you rely on faith rather than knowing. That is why we will abstain. An evaluation was promised. Today it is 30 June 2022, so that evaluation should actually take place on 30 June 2023. I hope, therefore, that we really have the data to carry out this evaluation with knowledge. I also hope, in particular, that you will also be open to the resulting findings and adjustments, changes and changes. Finally, the technique of the law is suboptimal to me. That is not a reproach to you, I simply note that it is a politically established use. We have made use of this in the past. They were talking about a potpourri. A lot of things were thrown into a pile that were discussed at the end of the work on a rotten voyage. The risk of using the tax relief measure abroad has now been discussed fairly extensively. This implies that other questions asked or not being asked come to fruition, but that is a general remark. Mr Minister, the N-VA Group will therefore abstain in the vote on this and we look forward to your evaluation on 30 June 2023. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. So from tomorrow one can start eating.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u104	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. There's still one question you haven't answered. Regarding the reduction of VAT on bras, you will have to take a royal decree. Could you tell me when? What will be the date of application of the Royal Decree for the reduction of VAT on bras? Do you think this will already apply this summer, in a week or in fifteen days?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u105	That'll be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u106	Minister, thank you for this very specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u107	Mr. Secretary, I apologize, but I had a double booking. It's gonna be on Thursdays. I would like to comment on the reduction of VAT on custom bras and bathing suits for women who have undergone an amputation of the breast. I will not do that in detail, but I would like to point out how important this decision is. Every day in our country seven women die of breast cancer. Those who survive don't have it easy either. Breast amputation means not only a great physical discomfort, but also, above all, a very psychic trajectory that is anything but obvious to most women. If their sorrow can be lightened a little by wearing good, customized clothes, women feel much better. In addition, there is already a refund for breast reconstructions. Women who do not opt for a breast reconstruction - which can be for all kinds of reasons - and who have to wear adapted clothes have a lot of costs. I would simply like to express my appreciation from the Group of the European People's Party for the government's efforts to reduce VAT on customized bras and bathing suits for women who have had breast cancer. That's what I wanted to say. Again, I'm sorry I didn't follow the right order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u109	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2722/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2722/4) The bill has 93 articles. The draft law has 93 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Piedboeuf, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u112	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2732/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2732/3) The bill has 61 articles. The draft law contains 61 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Zanchetta, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u115	With this bill for restitution of artifacts to the former colonies in general and to Congo in particular, there are many problems. I shall begin with the main objection, namely that the draft is unconstitutional. The opinion of the Council of State leaves no doubt. The draft law runs counter to Article 167 of the Constitution. Regardless of the fact that it wishes to regulate other aspects of scientific research, to centralise procedures and guidelines for examining applications for restitution, it imposes a strict straitjacket on the government in order to achieve the result of the negotiations on the necessary bilateral treaties. It is curious to read that the outcome of negotiations with third countries is already locked in advance in the draft law. That way of working is very strange. Without these treaties, the present design is basically without object. If the government wanted to define certain aspects or define a template or set chalk lines for the negotiations, there were other options. Then the government could have chosen to have a draft treaty validated by the government in order to draw it to the negotiating table. Such a text could have had similar content and would have left more margin for further negotiations. That wouldn't have been unconstitutional. That option was not chosen. As there are no more than three agreements to be concluded, namely with Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, the government could have opted for a model text on the one hand, if they feared that different procedures would be negotiated, or if they had chosen to conclude a common treaty with each of the three partners, which provided for a uniform arrangement for each of the three partners. That too would have had the same effect, nor would it have been unconstitutional. There are plenty of possibilities in the legal framework. On the other hand, an illegal slope is being chosen, which is regrettable. The draft is not just unconstitutional. There's more. The draft also violates the government agreement and the spirit of the Congo Commission. The government agreement of the purple-green coalition clearly stated that the government would support and support the work of the Congo Commission. In the Congo Commission, we have only just held hearings on the subject. The substantive debate on restitution of artifacts must even start there. The government does not want to make a general assessment of the colonial period, but only contribute to scientific research. Of course, that's a ridiculous excuse. Nor is the purpose of the Congo Commission to make a general assessment. The commission specifically mentions restitution and its impact as one of the problems to be investigated. This subject is therefore a significant part of the expert report published last year, which is still the subject of debate today. Of course, one cannot say that one respects the commission's mandate and functioning and at the same time already determines what the conclusion of the discussion should be. For me, that is all right, make those conclusions in advance, but be consistent, admit honestly that you don't care about the functioning of the Congo Commission and that it doesn't stop you from adopting laws that list the final conclusions six months before the conclusions are drawn. So what are the recommendations of the Congo Commission still for? Then pull a line right through, at least that's clear. Moreover, it was just the majority, which was very much in favour of setting up the Congo Commission. I find it surprising, then, how the same majority single-handedly undermines the relevance of this operation, simply because the competent minister at all times wants his place in the spotlight. Colleagues, the work of the Congo Commission has also shown that the text is not well structured. Both in the expert's report and during hearings with external experts and academics, issues came up that called this draft into question. Waiting for the recommendations and identification of the pitfalls by the committee, would have been valuable work and could lead to a better design. The comments that emerge from this are, among other things, that the experts see restitution as an element of a much larger initiative of reconciliation and of restoring relations with partner countries, rather than what is happening today, the processing of illegally obtained objects as an initiative in itself, which is completely separate from further initiatives and wider projects of reconciliation. The experts also make it clear that providing an answer to the question of who is the recipient of art objects to be returned is very difficult and complex. That transcends the classic state-to-state transaction. Goods can also belong to individuals, to regional entities, to groups of people. State ownership runs counter to the common ownership systems of local communities, which were just wiped out by colonialism. The design leaves the individual in the cold and only aims at a centralised transfer between the national states, between Brussels and Kinshasa. The draft law ignores other possibilities of restitution, which are not merely physical, or title titles, but also other slopes suggested by the experts. Rent allowances, for example, are a priori excluded today. The draft also forgets that restitution rests heavily on provenance research, in which the colonial archives are important to some colleagues, among others Mr Briers has drawn up a proposal on this subject, which is often a decisive source. To this end, there is currently very unequal access for researchers from both sides. There are restrictions for Congolese researchers, among others, who are excluded from the proper security clearances, in order to gain full access to the colonial archives. The design also looks only at real estate and not at the large quantities of audiovisual material. There are also human remains in our collections. Some archives are excluded from the scope of the present draft law. However, according to the experts we have heard in the Congo Committee, this distinction belongs to the same problem of refunds. They are of enormous importance to the countries and communities of origin. In this way the design also ignores the completeness of the collections. The distinction between legally and unlawfully acquired goods is often not meaningful, especially when it gives rise to disintegration or the disassembly of collections. That leads to an impoverishment of the patrimony. This voluntaristic initiative is at the expense of future opportunities for historical and art historical research. The draft hypothesizes the possibility, in consultation with the Länder, which also have significant historical collections, of going to management in the same framework and seeking a general solution that provides a framework for art in common ownership. People don't do that around here. The Secretary of State is determined to take the flight unilaterally, without consulting the Länder. An additional problem is that the design is counterproductive. According to State Secretary Dermine, the intention of the draft law is to ensure close cooperation with the State of origin of the goods and to involve them in the restitution and restitution. For example, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, but I quote the Council of State 'international treaties based on free will agreement between equal states whose provisions cannot legally be dictated unilaterally by one of the contracting parties'. The present draft imposes not only our conditions unilaterally, but also all the procedures that are deemed to be followed. In fact, it leaves no margin for partner countries to negotiate further on this issue. The text decides in advance on refunds in favour of Belgium, which is better equipped in this area and which has more resources at its disposal to judge the nature of goods. So there is no equal bargaining at all. Some parties would have mentioned this in the past in Parliament as neo-colonial. Here, too, emphasis is placed on the scientific nature of restitution, while it is clear that there is a political agreement whereby science is forced into a subordinate role. This possibility is also restricted by no more than an advisory role for the political level and an arbitrary role for the King to decide in other cases whether disfection. Parliament is asked today to agree to this, regardless of whether our partners in Rwanda, Congo and Burundi agree to this. The agreement of these countries seems to be secondary. That is not taken into account. However, without the agreement of these countries, it is very likely that we will have to do the work again in a few months' time, at least on the assumption that the Minister can actually reach agreement with the governments of the three partner countries concerned. Today, that is not the case at all. The conclusion is that the minister imposes his will on the ex-colonies. That should then fit in with a reconciliation over the colonial past. Don't make me laugh. That's not all. The design is also cumbersome. What way of working is proposed here? The refund is each piece, art object per art object, from a certain value with bilateral expert panels. As the design relates to thousands of objects in federal collections, it becomes a very time-consuming and expensive business. Then we are only talking about the processing of the collections themselves. We do not yet agree on the further expenditure resulting from this for the preservation of those documents and for any logistics of those documents to the owner countries. It is also the Scientific Committee, which will have to decide which documents are refundable and which objects have been illegally acquired or labelled as such. This means that a great deal of authority is being centralized in that committee. The explanatory statement states that there is scientific research on this, but there is no consensus on this in the scientific world. I found in the Congo Committee that opinions differ, including among academics. That is still the subject of fierce debate and there is a dispute about it. In other words, it is a subjective matter. In the absence of objective criteria, the committee will have to act subjectively and will be bound by the present spirit of time. That is certainly true when one can assume the use of force or force in the acquisition or production of the documents. The joint composition of the committees, consisting of experts from the two States concerned, implies that people are selected in advance with an inclination for restitution. There is a priori an imbalance, because there are few academics who specialize in a field, when they are already opposed to the concept in advance. It also leads to an imbalance, as because of the fact that the collections are located in Western countries, there are more experts here than in the countries of origin. As I mentioned earlier, therefore, there is also a knowledge imbalance due to unequal access to information on the documents. The independence of experts will be guaranteed by us rather than by our treaty partners of a rather authoritarian inclination. This could lead to further politicisation of the process. Moreover, due to the joint composition, this may lead to the blocking of the processing of documents. With the separation between the legal property of an object and its physical return, the text also deviates from the Belgian concept of ownership, as laid down in the Civil Code. Through bilateral agreements, we should provide for the conditions to be met prior to the handing over of a document. This may again lead to blocking and restitution in name alone or to many processes on the final release. The choice to allow only restitution to the country of origin of the good and to oblige specific persons or communities to follow an ordinary, classic, legal procedure to recover the property or to protest against the mother country that receives the documents, denies the rights of individual citizens or communities in question. It does not provide guarantees for restitution to the most entitled person. I will conclude, Madam President, with the summary. The draft is unconstitutional and gives rise to a lengthy and long-term process. It is also scientifically far from meaningful. It also involves a patronization of our three partner countries. As we have heard from academics in the Congo Commission, a well-founded refund looks completely different. Today, Secretary of State Dermine has his 50 minutes of fame, but the initiative does not contribute at all to a meaningful reconstruction of positive partnerships with Congo, Rwanda or Burundi. That is why we shall be voting against today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u116	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, today the Democratic Republic of the Congo is celebrating the sixty-second year of its independence. I imagine it is no coincidence that this text is coming to plenary today. The symbol is important because by voting on this text, we will open a door, that of the restitution of works of art acquired illegitimately during the colonial period. I would remind you that if we are here today, it is thanks to the diaspora associations which, for ten or fifteen years, have been raising awareness, informing and campaigning for the public place to be exposed what was really Belgian colonization in the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. Contrary to colonial propaganda and his discourse on civilizing action, so-called benefits of colonization or other intoxication of minds, they highlighted what the academic world had long known, namely, abuses, apartheid policy, State racism, institutional violence, economic exploitation and forced labour. The Special Commission on the Colonial Past is working hard to deepen this work and to propose a series of conclusions and recommendations by the end of the year. I hope that they will be ambitious and commensurate with the expectations of many of us, including a component on reparations, including, of course, the return of objects plundered by acquisition or by force as a spoil of war, deceit, corruption or blackmail. This is only a first step to allow certain legal locks to be blown up before we can conclude treaties with the countries of origin of the works concerned. This is where most of the work will be done. It is in these texts that we can find common ground with the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi on the practical modalities because, let us recall, we cannot impose our own conditions, say that it is to be taken or left without it being a repetition of colonial practice that was to dictate our will from the metropolis. For today we are in a position of strength, since we possess these goods. But that is a shameful advantage, and we must not, we cannot, abuse it. It is therefore important that we allow genuine negotiation at the conclusion of these treaties. In fact, we discussed it in committee. Whether it is in the composition of the committees which will have to give an opinion, on the potential right of initiative of these committees, on the binding nature of the opinions issued which would require restitution in the event of spoliation, all this must remain open. I can't even imagine the opposite. As far as the binding nature is concerned, let us imagine that the committee proves that an object has been acquired illegally, illegitimately, but that it is decided, despite everything, to keep it in our collections. I do not know how we could assume this without assuming that the state would then officially be a receiver of stolen objects. That would not be acceptable. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us here is obviously restricted to federal jurisdiction. But today, in Belgium, there are works of art which, according to the chahutized history of our country, have found themselves in the possession of federated entities, communes, and even in the private sector. These works of art are not covered by this text today, but it is clear that progress will also be needed on these objects. I hope that the federated entities will be able to draw inspiration from what we are going to vote today. This should in any case, I believe, be reflected in the recommendations of the Colonial Passover Committee to be passed on to the other levels of power in order to unify policy in this area. With respect to property held by legal or private persons, such as the Church or businesses, we will also have to deliver ourselves. Finally, we will also have to go further in the future by extending the question of restitutions to archives, as Mr Roggeman pointed out, and to the human remains that remain here outside the scope of the text. And with regard to human remains, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the commune of Ixelles, which today had General Storms' bust removed from one of its parks, while his violent and barbaric action in the settlements is widely documented. He was the one who beheaded the chief tabwa Lusinga before bringing his skull back to Belgium. This is an example of human remains that it is more than time to return to his country of origin! Mr Secretary of State, today we need a policy of appeasement between countries, and between communities within our country, on the basis of a sincere awareness and a genuine willingness to assume the responsibility of the Belgian State for the atrocities of colonization. Unfortunately, I have a certain fear, I do not hide it from you, when I hear some voices in the public debate which, when Belgium returns to the Congo a rarer kakungu mask, rather than stressing the historical character of this gesture, rush to remember that it is only a long-term loan and nothing else. This marks the existence and influence of these nostalgic movements of the colonial past of Belgium, which today do not hesitate to show yet a certain contempt for the Congolese, Rwandan and Burundians, and the Afrodescendants in Belgium. Others play on fears and fantasies by making it appear that one wants to empty the museums, by calling for a so-called universalism that actually hides only a Western-Century perspective, explaining that only the West wants to protect and is able to manage these collections. How many Western works of art, today, in African museums? Probably none or almost all. It's time to rebalance that balance. We must forcefully fight the reactionary temptation of some. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we will support this text, but also with impatience, so that it can quickly be translated into concrete actions, beyond the symbol and beyond political communication. We are expected and we have already been very late. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to works of art, I would like to take this opportunity to warmly invite you to visit the exhibition "Authenticity" of the Belgian-Congolese artist David Katshiunga, which was inaugurated this noon by the President and Mr. De Vriendt in the peristyle of Parliament. I really invite you to go. It's an incredible exhibition. Let's do art and culture to get all of us together around a common project!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u117	Mr. Secretary of State, I am confident that the bill we are considering, which we are debating now, and that I hope we will vote at the end of the sitting is an important piece of legislation for you to implement your policy note. I think it is important for our Parliament and for our country. With our three former colonies, we are living a historic moment through this bill to restore African cultural property. I look at the date of 30 June, the day of Congo's independence. It is also a symbolic date for making this strong gesture, directing general scientific policy towards the restitution of stolen or stolen cultural property. I could do the longer version or the shorter version. I have a little trouble with the long version and I also feel that this is not the general wish. But I believe that we must put this debate back in a broader sequence and in a historical context that has led our Parliament, our country, to revisit the colonial history of Belgium. This sequence started in Minneapolis on 25 May 2020, with the death of George Floyd and the anti-racist movements and demonstrations around the world, including in Belgium, which led our Parliament, at the initiative of our colleague Patrick Dewael, to set up this special colonial past committee, which my colleague Defosse, among others, spoke about, a few moments ago. This memory work is obviously essential. I'm not going to do the past again. I look a little over the news, which also shows us all about the assassination of former Congolese Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba, the resolutions that have been adopted in this Parliament, including with regard to translocation works. It is also important to say that all this led to a letter addressed to the Congolese President, Mr. Félix Tshisekedi, on the occasion of the sixty years of the independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo by King Philip, who expressed his deepest regret at the time and who also recognized acts of cruelty committed during the reign of King Leopold II. This is an important historical fact which deserves to be mentioned in the foreword of this debate. He also spoke of the wounds of the past, exploitation, domination, discrimination and racism. He was the first Belgian king to condemn the colonial regime. Belgium is not the only country to reflect on its past. We can, moreover, salute the gesture of Willy Brandt, in 1970, at the Warsaw ghetto, the speech of Jacques Chirac, in 1995, on the raid of the Vel' d'Hiv. This is part of the same concern about historical truth and collective responsibility for our past. Let us be frank, in the Colonial Past Commission, not everyone has the same point of view! The first two speeches we have heard already show that. There is no single thought in this committee. There are political groups and Members who hardly appreciate this desire to seek the truth and to say it, according to Jean Jaurès's formula. There are groups and colleagues who do not see with a good mind the very principle of restitution of cultural objects or the questioning of the colonial period. As far as I am concerned, I should like to quote Frantz Fanon, who said that "in the concept of decolonization there is a requirement that the colonial question be fully challenged". Mr Secretary of State, your project allows us to move from speech to action since you are creating a legal framework that will overcome the main obstacle with a view to restitution or return of works, in a well-organised context, in the future. I will conclude my statement by saying that we have before us a work to do in order to conclude cooperation agreements with the Congo, as well as with Rwanda and Burundi. All this will take a little time. Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will have been much longer than I would have wished. But know that it is with great conviction that we will support this project that goes in the direction of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u118	Mr. Secretary of State, do you know the Congo Commission? This is a special committee set up a few months before the start of the Vivaldi Government in October 2020. It is a pity that the chairman of that committee is not present. Apparently, this bill doesn't carry away its interest. However, that committee is responsible for investigating the Congo Free State, the Belgian colonial past in Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, and its impact, as well as the consequences to be given to it. Mr Secretary of State, fear not, the aspect of the restitution of illegally obtained works of art, the aspect of the restitution, is explicitly part of the part of the restoration of the mission and mission of that special committee. However, you did not wait for any input, recommendations or anything from that special committee. The special committee operates in the shadow of the political decisions taken by that government. In order to complete the absurdity, a few weeks ago, a meeting of that special committee was fully devoted to the subject we are discussing. We were even given legal and technical explanations as to how your bill had been drawn up. Your draft law was passed in committee a few weeks ago, even after two readings. Understand who can understand, I find it very strange. Afterwards, we do not know exactly on what date your draft law will be explained in the special committee. However, in accordance with its mission, the special committee had to give up input, know-how, recommendations and so on to government policy in this area. Fantastic, isn't it? In defence of this approach and method of working, some members of the majority use arguments that can be called, to say the least, immortal. Amechtig is an old Dutch word, I learned it from Joris Van Hauthem who used it all the time. Honor, Mr Gilson, is an exception to these arguments. She is in opposition in the special committee, but she still pushes the green button, just like her chairman. It's a different approach. It's a different approach. I've got to get something off my chest. I repeat that I regret that Mr De Vriendt is not here, as chairman of the municipal council of that architectural centre, by the hands of the emasculated city of Leopold II. What did Mr Dermine say in committee, not embarrassed, which pleads for him? He said: "The Secretary of State has had informal contacts with the chairman and members of the special committee to ensure that the work is organised in the same way." Yes, informal contacts, with the members of the majority. I kind of suspect that this was a conversation between PS, Green, Ecolo and Vooruit, and that for the gallery Mr Briers and someone from Open Vld, who were not even allowed to speak on this draft today, were also allowed to join. I don't know if Mrs Gilson was there. Why this bill is before us today, Mr Roggeman, is actually quite clear. I had the impression you were wondering. You know it too, but you didn't dare say it. I'm gonna do that. Mr Defossé has already told us the secret. The special committee naturally arose from a social fact, which had to have a political and thus electoral tail. The party of the Secretary of State wanted to bet on Ben-Hur on the theme "How do I tie the Congolese diaspora as much as possible to me" as soon as possible. Especially when the President of France, the man who, over the last few weeks, had some electoral difficulties, gave the green light to a number of initiatives in France, French-speaking Belgium could of course not be left behind. Your explanation in committee and Mr Defossé's statement were, by the way, written with references to la douce France. Ladies and gentlemen, our attitude to the substance of the draft law is clear. Naturally, as nationalists, we recognise that, in 2022, after the decolonisation wave in the second part of the last century, there is still little desire worldwide to grant other peoples on other continents no right of self-determination or to exploit them in an economic way, from some sense of superiority or economic interest. I can't say anywhere anymore, because there are the Chinese in Katanga for cobalt production. However, that is another debate. Mr Secretary of State, it is equally true that colonization was, as it were, internalised, especially in the first decades. In fact, I can imagine that it involved a certain mental expropriation process. Until the 1940s and 1950s, civilisation and conversion were an integral part of the Belgian presence. Mr Secretary of State, we may indeed wonder whether it is still ethical and morally desirable that a substantial part of the Congolese cultural heritage should be located in the West, while the country of origin is the moral owner. In recent years, the Royal Museum for Central Africa acknowledged that its collections were partly acquired during the colonial period in the context of a political system of legal inequality. People could be forced or pressured to donate objects or were weak to negotiate the price if they wanted to sell objects. It is as you have indicated in the committee, Africans have not chosen that situation and even less for the fact that they were cut off from the spirituality of their ancestors. We went there first, they didn't come here first. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, today it is slightly different. However, let me get to the point. It was therefore a good thing that the museum decided in recent years to make the inventory of its collections available. They gave the green light for making the inventory of all ethnographic collections and archives available online in all transparency. Today there is a legal framework for managing this return in legal terms. The draft law is necessary to initiate a form of diplomatic dialogue, without, of course, laying down the detailed rules for a bilateral agreement, which must be concluded on an equal footing. In the long term, therefore, we will also have a law of consent here. Mr Roggeman has already given his legal analysis. So I will not repeat it. I leave the discussion on the legal weakness or strength of this bill to my colleagues' lawyers. However, I will make a number of political comments. In 2021, the Secretary of State publicly issued the following not insignificant comments. If Congo became the owner of the illegally obtained documents, this does not mean that they will immediately disappear from the AfricaMuseum. There is a difference between legal property and physical restitution. I share your view that we need to be sure that these objects can return in good conditions and that they will also be managed in good conditions. Is it correct that it is your intention to conclude a refund deposit agreement? This graduality must ensure the proper preservation of the documents in Congo, something that you and even the director of the museum doubt. We share that doubt, Mr Dermine. With regard to the Scientific Committee, as mentioned by my N-VA colleague, we demand maximum transparency. We demand this because you yourself indicated last year that only 1% of the total collection can currently be labelled with the necessary certainty as obtained in an unlawful manner. It's about 885 pieces. Of 58 %, 50,000 pieces, it is certain that they were lawfully obtained. The examination of origin will therefore cover the 35,000 pieces whose origin is difficult to determine. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you watched the Seventh Day three weeks ago? It was very interesting. It was staggering to hear how the three invited speakers, all Belgians of Congolese origin, rejected some of the principles of the special committee. Something was said there, among other things, which we also heard from journalists who, like you, accompanied the King on his tour of Congo, namely that the Congolese are not really working on what you are doing. They are reassured, as is said in West Flanders - in the semantic debate on apologies versus formal apologies, but they are mainly concerned with the unstable situation in the east of Congo. They ask that the Belgians should assist them there. They asked the King, and therefore the government, not yet to intervene militaryly. What does Mr De Vriendt and the elected representatives of the participating groups want to hear in Congo? I therefore disagree with Mrs Arnould, who represented on Monday in the Congo Committee on Lawyers Without Borders. She said that we should not assume a priori that there would be no recovery payments in Congo. I don't believe any of that. Here we are dealing with recovery payments! Mr Defossé is making recovery payments. Mr Defossé and a few other people are flagellants, people who whip themselves to get into heaven. They do self-punishment, self-punishment, to do penance and morally come to justice with themselves. I think they really want to talk to the Congolese. Self-hatred shaves high peaks at this time of year. To stick to the bill, Mr Secretary of State, there is also the point of departure within the diaspora that all art transported to Belgium at the time of the colony, including the art purchased, should be returned. According to a number of people, even experts, there would be no legitimate art appropriated by the colonialist, just because the colonialist was in an unequal power relationship. How are we going to do that in Spain? How are we going to do that in Portugal? What will Joe Biden do with the native population of North America? What is the superprogressive Prime Minister of Canada going to do for his native population? Mr Secretary of State, this lives with some on the special committee. We cannot therefore expect your scientific committee to be under political pressure. We have already heard calls for the restitution of legally obtained documents of high symbolic value. Madam President, this is a file with a lot of symbolism. Several speakers referred to this date. Other speakers have referred to the exhibition you inaugurated today. The trip to Congo with Mr. Dermine and the King was highly pregnant with symbolism. On Monday there was also the now almost legendary tooth, remnant of the remains of the indeed under the supervision, perhaps even facilitating and undoubtedly approving eye of the Belgian government and the Bwana Kitoko, the beautiful gentleman from Laeken, slaughtered Patrice Lumumba. This is very strong in this expo Authenticité. We can see Patrice in an abacost, an African suit introduced by the late Mobutu instead of the Western suit. Apparently, the exhibiting artist applauds the Mobutu's recours à l'authenticité, taking back to an African identity. Now, however, you will have to help me, because I do not understand something. The people of PVDA will certainly explain that to me, because they are the Lumum beacons par excellence, led by the notorious Ludo De Witte. When it came to economic exploitation in committee, Mrs Ponthier, I was told that this opinion was shared by various experts, the nationalisation of Mobutu has made an economic mess of the country. That was said at the time and there was more or less a broad consensus. Isn't nationalization just what Patrice Lumumba intended, which indeed killed him in full Cold War? It is a good thing that the Communist Ludo De Witte has exposed the Belgian involvement in this in his books, but making Lumumba a genius and a kind of black Jesus, after all, we are also experiencing this in the Chamber of Representatives, given the range of action of the late Patrice Lumumba when it comes to certain ethnic groups in the then Congolese context. I will not repeat myself any further, because then we will come to a little less pleasurable language. Madam President, Secretary of State, I hope that both of you will not have earned your heavens with these almost sacramental acts today, because we know since the resistance of the Brussels PS against the ban on unsaturated slaughter that the laity of the PS has become a thing of the past, unless there are two PS's, a PS of unbelievers and a PS of believers. Mr Laaouej, who is not here either. They never come to listen to me. I do not have much faith in it, but I hope for you, Mr Secretary of State, that the African diaspora, which mainly but not exclusively resides in the so pleasant and super diverse capital, where the children of native Flemings, who are gradually in the demographic evening twilight, will always feel very at home, will find themselves in your approach. For some, it'll never be enough. They're after that. It'll never be enough. They are a prominent member of the special committee. From July it really comes to speed and we will be able to take note of the broad requirements of the diaspora. We will then be able to find out whether we are doing the right thing for these ladies and gentlemen. Often they are children or even grandchildren of opponents who fled at the time. At least they're electoral blowers. I see no discrimination and no social disadvantage. I see real power with the balled fist up and the knee on the ground. For this reason too, Mr Dermine could not wait for the report of the experts with the status quaestionis, nor for the final report containing the recommendations of the special committee. The monkey hasn't come out of the sleeve until now. The hatch recovery will show what it is really about this particular committee, regardless of recovery payments. There is much more that is ready, such as facilitating and reviewing the conditions for obtaining Belgian nationality for persons with Congolese, Rwandan or Burundian nationality, an adapted visa policy, even stronger quotas for the presence of people of African origin in the audiovisual media, an inter-federal action plan against racism, collective regularisation, rent guarantee funds for black people who are victims of housing discrimination, the imposition of sanctions on schools where forms of discrimination occur, etc. We cannot separate your bill from this context. The Flemish Interest will therefore vote against because of the context in which your design thrives. A particularly large part of the Flemings will be much less accommodating for two other forms of recovery that are already fully announced by the enlightened spirits. Mr Defossé proudly announced a form today. The image storm was formally deployed today in Ixelles. We are going to oppose the improper removal of statues and monuments that are part of the historical heritage and the history of this, although artificial and long-standing state dominated by French-speaking people, of which the Flemish people have been historically part and are unfortunately still part. Secondly, with recovery payments. That's not negotiable. If a majority in this House, I look to the right where most Flemings are in this Half-Round, logically with the support of at least some of the Flemish parties, decide to do so, then we will ensure that every Fleming from De Moeren to Kinrooi knows that he or she is being summoned in a bath of moral bidding for injustice committed by members of the Belgian monarchy and their mostly French-speaking industrial allies on the ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u119	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have met today to discuss the bill recognizing the alienability of property linked to the Belgian colonial past and determining a legal framework for its return and return. Today is a symbolic date: the 62nd anniversary of Congo's independence. We are all looking forward, with my group, to this important anniversary for our friends in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The dress I wear in the blink of an eye is made by a Congolese stylist based in Matonge in Ixelles where I am elected local. It is a sign of deep friendship that unites Belgium and the Congo which I address to all the nationals of this beautiful country. This celebration and our work on the colonial past and its consequences must not, of course, obscure the ongoing tragedies: the plundering of resources and the risk of Balkanization already denounced by the Prime Minister of the Congo, Patrice Lumumba. Mr Secretary of State, today you are proposing a comprehensive legal framework for which I want to focus on certain parameters. First, the vast number of private collections are not covered by this bill. Secondly, a cooperation agreement will have to lay down the strict conditions for the examination of what is called the legitimacy of the acquisition of works of art. This bilateral cooperation agreement will be the subject of an important negotiation and will then be presented for approval to our Assembly. It will set up what is already provided for in the law at the level of the framework: a joint committee which will be, as you have confirmed in committee, made up of scientists. It will have to look, within the framework of the cooperation agreement, at the concept of legitimacy or illegitimacy, since the law does not define it. There is therefore a blur whose contours will be specified by this joint committee. In addition, a series of provenance studies on the objects in the collections of the Royal Museum of Central Africa will be carried out. As you said again this morning, in the press, we will have to resolve not to have an answer about certain objects. We'll have to take care of it. Finally, the decision will ultimately come back to the government. It was the Council of State that had noted that the first text was problematic in that regard. A joint commission composed of experts from two countries could not be entrusted with a competence assigned by our Constitution to the King. Mr Secretary of State, I have expressed to you in committee concerns about a general framework that includes beacons, but which could, in theory, lead to the Museum being emptied of the most important pieces of its collections, or even of all its collections. It could therefore perhaps be included as unnecessary work, although it had been restored at great cost and the issue of restoration had been discussed at length. You have reassured us and assured us that obviously this would not be the case, that you are also the Secretary of State for Scientific Establishments and that your objective is not to reduce it to an empty box. Indeed, the Museum is also undoubtedly an embassy for these countries with certain collections. It's true that we can wonder how far we're going to go. Italy, for example, has restored an important monument to Ethiopia. Germany returned bronzes to Benin. France has returned twenty-six important pieces to Benin as well. The British, who have a very important collection at the British Museum, do not seem to take any steps in this direction. As far as we are concerned, yes, through the text under consideration, we are starting an approach with a framework and structure that allows us to know where we are going and where we are going to land. Of course, we must talk about our colonial past, but our group is convinced that we cannot judge the past with today's gaze. We Liberals are opposed to a vision that wants today's citizens to apologize or repent forever for the past. Moreover, the Liberals were not the political heirs of colonialism. On the other hand, we must recognize, as the King did, that the colonial regime was a system based on exploitation, domination and which gave rise to abuses and humiliation. However, participating in collective repentance would, in our view, lead to divisions in our society. When I see that this morning a statue was removed from its base and an association declares that a battle is won, but that "the decolonial war will continue", I sound the alarm. We don't want to go to war! We Europeans and Africans are close by our history, geography and interdependence in the present globalized world. We must join forces and build a true partnership of equals to meet together the many challenges we face today. And this is even more essential than what we are doing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u120	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we can congratulate the government on this intelligent and legally correct draft of law, which is the only way, the only possible way, after a decision by the federal government and on the basis of a scientific analysis of origin by a scientific committee, to return objects to the Federal State. We hope that the cooperation agreement with Congo on the return of looted goods will not only deal with the physical circumstance of the preservation of the returned goods, but will also include the possibility of reducing certain symbolically important items with Belgian support to the tribes, to the chief coutumier, from whom they came. We believe that the main purpose of this exercise should be to enable the Congolese people, as well as their artists, to reconnect through these cultural carriers with their own cultural past and identity. Within our special committee dealing with our colonial past, the restitution of cultural goods and objects was discussed in a much wider context. Some speakers considered that all the acquired art within the colonial period was by definition unlawfully acquired, it has already been said here, and must be returned. Our party does not agree with that view. However, this does not prevent us from pleading for greater access in Congo to legally obtained objects, both from Belgian state and private property, by means of special loans or even gifts. For example, we regret that the Kakongo mask that brought our prince back to Congo could only be a loan because of the lack of a legal framework for a gift from our federal collections. We will advocate this for the three countries in our committee recommendations. It should also be recognised that many pieces with the best intentions in Belgium were preserved for posterity, including Congolese offspring. It is not always predatory, but we must ensure that these artifacts are not stolen or stolen after they have been transferred to Congo. It will also remain our responsibility that those objects, which are currently accessible to Belgians and Congolese in federal museums, should not enter the global art market and remain accessible to both peoples. No matter who exercises the right of ownership of the property, the cooperation agreement will have to contain some provisions on it and the documents will have to be made known internationally in such a way as to make their merchantability impossible. Some of my respectable colleagues from the special committee have, in my view, already held some of the debates before September 2022 during the discussion. I would like to confine myself to this draft law. In my view, the draft does not undermine the possible conclusions of our committee. It is, however, ahead of schedule, as I have already indicated in committee, by transposing a system into legislation before the existence of such a system was approved in committee and in Parliament. This will not even go far enough for some Members of Parliament, but the legal possibilities of the federal government are already exhausted. We shall approve the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u121	Colleagues, just sixty-two years ago, on 30 June 1960, it was the independence of the Congo. Mr Dermine said today to the newspaper Le Soir, I quote: "It is a bit by chance that the text was voted on this 30 June". Mr.Dermine, I will not tell anyone that on June 8, you sent an e-mail to postpone the two-week review of this bill for today. I think that's a good idea. I find it very good to have placed this point today, Mr Secretary of State. On 30 June 1960, two resounding speeches were delivered. The first was by the colonizer, represented by King Baudouin. He said, I quote: "The independence of the Congo is the culmination of the work conceived by the genius of King Leopold II, undertaken by him with tenacious courage and continued with perseverance by Belgium". The second was delivered by anti-colonialist Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba. He declared: "This independence, no Congolese worthy of this name can ever forget that it is through the struggle that it has been conquered, a struggle in which we have spared neither our forces nor our deprivation nor our suffering nor our blood, an indispensable struggle to put an end to the humiliating slavery that has been imposed upon us by force". Belgium had the Congolese Prime Minister killed, who had the audacity to envisage a Congo run by the Congolese themselves without being remotely controlled by the former colonial power. The question is whether the bill you are introducing today is more the legacy of the first or second speech. However, I note a positive aspect: the question of restitution is now on the table. Definitely, that's a good thing. The Vivaldi government has been under pressure from the decolonial movements, which have strongly denounced for years the possession by Belgium of goods and human remains taken over during the colonization of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. Just a few months before the formation of the De Croo government, the murder of George Floyd in the United States - on May 20, 2020 - contributed greatly to the global rise of the Black Lives Matter movement - Black life counts. It is known that this movement crystallized in Belgium on the question of Belgian colonization. How is it that a few hundred meters from here, on the other side of the park, still stands the statue of Leopold II proudly riding his horse? It was the man who seized the Congo in 1885, the man of a colonization that was going to cause the death of more than a million Africans, according to the lowest estimates that were provided to us in the Special Commission Past Colonial. This statue tells us: "The lives of blacks do not count against the profits of colonial exploitation." It was in this wake that the House established the Special Colonial Past Commission. The question is this, Mr Secretary of State: why didn't you wait for the work of the committee to be completed? We are now six decades after independence. Waiting another six months would have been in the order of the possible. In any case, it was not unreasonable. All right! That's not the point. What is particularly problematic is the nature, the content of this project, suggesting that King Baudouin's speech may not be entirely dead. There are two major problems with your text, Secretary of State. This is first of all the legislative process. Black Lives Matter - Black life matters - but does Black people's opinion matter? We can doubt this when we read this text. Moreover, in its opinion - this is the case - the Council of State notes that the government is responsible for negotiating the treaties. We adopt them here, so we know the procedure: the government negotiates a treaty with a foreign government. Then, once it has been concluded, it is submitted to us here, and we vote on it. While here, you do the opposite. You are submitting a text to the Belgian Parliament; then only by virtue of this text are you going to negotiate the Treaty. So we are imposing a text on our Congolese, Rwandan and Burundian partners, who are going to be voted on here by the good whites. On RTBF, you clearly summarized the conditionality of these refunds. You said - this is a good summary - "there must be a request and there must be an illegitimate acquisition". Excuse me, but so we're in a neo-colonial logic. The Congolese, Rwandan, Burundians were not involved in the development of this bill. Belgium defines the legal framework. Belgium determines the conditions, which determines the premises, the circumstances and the manner in which the refund is to be made. In committee, you said, Mr Dermine, that this text does not set out the future conditions of the Treaty. But two things one. Either this text does not fix anything - but then, what is it for? Is it just communication? Either this text is still putting forward conditions. And so, I think the process is neo-colonial. If we look at this text in its explanatory memorandum and in its legal framework - but even more so in the explanatory memorandum than in the legal framework - we do find conditions. For example, in the legal system, we see the exclusion of human remains and archives. The explanatory memorandum goes even further under the conditions which are laid down. This brings me to my second criticism, which is even more fundamental, Secretary of State. It is that this bill imposes an artificial distinction between legitimately obtained objects and illegitimately obtained objects. Although there is a vocabulary discrepancy between the statement of reasons and the legal framework in this regard. But in any case, this distinction is there. In all your interviews, you do it. But do we ask the question, ladies and gentlemen: what is an object illegitimately acquired in the context of colonization? Is it not the colonial framework in itself that is totally illegitimate, that is illegitimate at all, that creates conditions of power relations where any consent, any agreement of the colonized is automatically compromised? In an interview with L'Écho, Secretary of State, you said about the collection of the museum in Tervuren: "For a majority of rooms, 56%, the circumstances of acquisition are perfectly documented and legitimate. By legitimacy, I mean that they are the result of either a real gift or a balanced commercial transaction." I note that in response to one of my written questions, you had been a little less assertive and I quote you: "The percentage (56%) of collected objects of the Tervuren museum that are documented and legitimate is a provisional estimate based on the available information." I think it is useful to quote the preliminary report of the experts of the Special Commission on the Past - this committee which you do not want to wait for the conclusions. In the initial report, it is already stated: "If there is little doubt about the violence that accompanied the looting of these objects during the period of conquest, opinions differ on the qualification, for example, of the purchase or donation of objects, such as forced abduction during the colonial period." The experts themselves doubt. Indeed, these occupations involved relations of domination. So how can we be sure that the words "don" or "commercial transaction" really are and have been carried out with the consent of the Congolese? Let us take for example this immensely long canoe in the underground that leads to the museum. The museum site indicates that the acquisition was requested in 1955 by the director of the museum, Mr. Olbrechts, for the visit of Congo by King Leopold III. But the text of the museum quotes that "the canoe was offered by the indigenous communities of the region to the museum, at the request of the assistant commissioner of the Carpial district. (...) The pirogue was therefore offered at the request of Carpiaux since Carpiaux himself responded to the urgent request of the director of the museum; it is likely that the negotiating margin of the Congolese of Ponthierville was weak in the face of this request from their administrative supervisory authority." This is a rather eloquent example! One can consider this legitimate, but if you scratch a little the varnish of this legitimacy, one finds that it is not so legitimate, the global context being illegitimate itself. "As often happens, the agenda of Congolese proposals is lacking in this narrative," the museum's website continues. More fundamentally, speaking of objects acquired legitimately or illegitimately, it is as if colonization had the least legitimate character, as if it had not been imposed by force, by violence. If an evildoer had entered your house, taken you hostage, made you work for him, looted the inside of your house, will it be considered that the objects he took were acquired legitimately? In the Congo, the property had owners. These property belonged to people. The same applies to colonized territories. They weren't discovered. They existed. People lived there. They've been taken over. The violence that took place to dominate and exploit is intrinsic to any settlement process. That is what the experts we hear in the Special Commission on the Colonial Past repeat, almost every week. In this context, how can you say, Secretary of State, that there are legitimately acquired assets? I asked you through parliamentary questions and during the committee discussion on this bill. You have never responded to this criticism, which is my main criticism: to assert that objects have been acquired legitimately is to deny the very basis of colonization. So you come with a project that presents itself as being decolonial, but which, in reality, remains imbued with colonial ideology.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u122	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will strongly support this draft law. It meets a fundamental need for justice, because it creates a framework for the return of goods stolen or illegally stolen during the period of colonial rule by Belgium over the states of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. If someone steals or steals other people's property, it feels like a gross injustice. If a theft has occurred, an investigation will take place in a democratic rule of law. When the stolen objects are recovered, they are returned to their rightful owner. That is exactly what the draft law is about, but on a larger scale. We were a little surprised at the arguments in the public and political debate regarding the return of goods. Some arguments are used in my view to avoid discussing the principle of refund, some arguments are used to question the principle of refund itself or not to give back goods in the facts. As an example, take the argument that the Royal Museum for Central Africa will probably have to close because of no more objects in possession or because of a disintegration of the collections. That is a strange argument, since the museum has more than 120,000 objects and 3 kilometres of archives in its possession today, as well as a huge amount of footage. Visitors can visit only 1% of the collection in the museum and more than half of the pieces were acquired correctly. I would also like to mention the argument during the committee's discussion that it would be better for the objects to remain here, because they will then have more visibility. This shows a very neo-colonial view of our relations with Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. Apparently, some parties also fear that, because colonialism is considered unlawful, all the commitments that have been made in that context would also be considered unlawful. I have heard this argument from the previous speaker. However, the draft law is not based on a presumption of illegality at all, but on a presumption of legality. A scientific study will be carried out to determine the origin and whether the object has been obtained unlawfully. So we continue on scientific research and knowledge of facts. We support that principle and that approach. What the public debate, as the political debate in the Chamber clearly teaches us, is that there is still some work on the table when it comes to recognising the pain and the social and cultural damage caused by the colonial removal of some objects for the country of origin. Let recognition just be a crucial part of the refund. The refund is not just the return of goods. It is also the recognition of pain, a crucial part of recovery, which is also the task of the special committee in connection with the colonial past. In that respect, we still have work to do. The accusation that the government restricts the refund by excluding archives and human remains is incomplete and therefore incomplete should encourage the members of the special committee to do so. Indeed, these aspects are not included in the draft law. There is a task for the committee. By the way, I would like to give it to you for the debate: the issue of the return of goods does indeed live in the Congo, in order to prove the international colloquium on the return of goods held on 1 December last year, on which it also has a text. For us, therefore, it is certainly important that we recognise the injustice of the illegal take-away of goods. We are pleased that the draft law provides an impetus for this and will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u123	Madam Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, this bill, we believe, provides an interesting legal framework in that it recognizes, as its title indicates, the alienability of property related to the colonial past and creates the conditions for its restitution and return. We shall therefore vote on it. It is part of a desire for cooperation, dialogue and the return of illegitimately acquired works. It is part of the desire for much greater accessibility – for us, it is very important – of the population of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi to its historical and cultural heritage. I would like to take this opportunity, this 30 June, to wish, like other colleagues, an excellent national holiday, an excellent celebration of independence on the occasion of the 62nd anniversary of the independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. But we know that, and you have introduced it to us, Secretary of State, this bill is only a first step, the very first step in a process that will still be long and complex before the goods of colonization can actually be returned, if any, and whose provenance is illegitimate. Indeed, the legal framework provided for here involves the adoption of bilateral treaties, the establishment of a commission of experts, the regulation of the transfer and the organization of the deposit in Belgium of goods awaiting repatriation. While the bill allows for symbolic progress in the short term, concrete results will only be visible in the very long term. If we support such a process in the direction of constructive cooperation with regard to the colonial past, we want to insist on points that we believe are important. First, as others have said, the bill is vague, particularly on the notion of the illegitimate nature of the acquisition of the property. I quote the bill where illegitimateness is defined by "notably – this adverb is a bit curious in a bill – when it is acquired under duress or due to circumstances of violence." These terms are not defined in the bill for purpose. It will be up to the treaty to define it, but it will not be obvious. The debate has just shown that. Between the vision of the PTB or the vision of other political groups, liberals, socialists, environmentalists, there is more than a margin. There are extremely important differences. As we can see, these discussions will lead to frustrations and delays. So it's a trail that it's not obvious to borrow. You have to know that. There will probably be deep differences on both sides, perhaps frustrations, perhaps angers. On the other hand, it is not forbidden to think – and I say it with nuance but firmly – that some of these works have reached our time because they had been preserved at the Royal Museum of Central Africa. We must pay tribute, in a way, to this museum's ability to preserve these works rather than to make them disappear in private collections or simply by the wear and tear of time or political hazards in Central Africa. It will therefore be necessary to ensure that the preservation of these works in the long term and their availability to the public remain a major concern. It is in this spirit that we hope this bill is on the table. That is why I would like to stress the need, in the meantime, to explore other avenues which are not contradictory but complementary and which are interesting, and not to focus solely on definitive restitution. Among these avenues, I am thinking in particular of the one put forward by Professor Kiangu Sindani of the University of Kinshasa, who proposed the establishment of an office of the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Kinshasa based on co-management and time-limited loans. This common management of a heritage which has been preserved in Belgium but which actually comes from Central Africa seems to me to be a very interesting and modern track. This seems to me to be a path on which we must work and which would ensure that some of these assets return to the Congo or Central Africa and that they are managed jointly in cooperation between those countries and Belgium. Let us be clear that the adoption of a framework for restitution is important and must be implemented, but it can be combined with exploring other avenues that would pave the way for better cooperation, listening to the expectations of the States and populations concerned. It should also be said that many issues are not dealt with in this bill. In particular, we need to address the issue of human remains, even though an important step has been taken recently. There is also the issue of archives, which will be the subject of recommendations of the Special Commission on Colonial Past. Let us hope that on these points the Special Commission will reach a broad consensus and that its recommendations will not be ignored. It is in this hope that we will participate in the work of the special commission and vote in favour of the bill before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u124	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking about a lot of debts in this debate and as many groups are pleased that this year, on 30 June, on a Thursday, I would like to start on another date to be mentioned. On 7 June 2020, two years ago, some ten thousand of our fellow citizens gathered in Place Poelart, in front of the Courthouse in Brussels, to protest against racism. They were chanting these words: "Black Lives Matter," "Black Life Matters." It is so in politics and it is often unusual, it is sometimes an event on the other side of the world that is the trigger of political actions hoped for here sometimes for a long time, especially by a part of civil society. George Floyd's murder in the United States has reopened, all over the world, wounds of the past that had not yet been able to heal. And in our home, the malaise was and remains today, of course, turned to our colonial past. In the wake of this movement, which quickly won our continent, the question of the collapse of the statue of Leopold II arose in Belgium with obvious force. How can we ignore it? The tragedies of the past have offered their soil to the sufferings of the present. That too must be recognized! And it's even more important than statues, because it's about men and women. I am, of course, thinking of African citizens of sub-Saharan origin, who are so poorly represented at parliamentary level. For far too long, these are those who, among our citizens of foreign origin, are hardest hit by certain discriminations. And if, in the fight against racism and discrimination, we have taken the legislative work in hand with all its imperfections, as far as the recognition of the history of colonization is concerned, we still have a thorough work to do. This past, it's time to finally look him straight in the eye to face him and give our wounds a chance to heal. As Jean Omasombo, a Congolese political scientist at the Africa Museum commented: "Among the paths taken by the Belgian state to confront these issues more head on, it is first and foremost a question of knowledge of history. We mustn't erase colonization. Our job is to approach the experience of colonization to better understand it, to understand what has happened so that it can no longer be repeated. Because today, the Congo continues to remain a space that does not have enough memory. There are almost no records." And it must be noted that this bill, which is being put to the vote at this stage, is in fact the only concrete result that, for the time being, can claim to fulfil satisfactory criteria of a strong, rational and meaningful act. It is clear that we will support this project despite certain shortcomings, particularly in terms of fields of application, restitution for the benefit of individuals, the question of archives, the restitution of human remains, since the problem of the restitution and return of the goods destroyed during the colonial period is central in the recognition of the responsibility of the Belgian State for the abuses of colonization. However, we can only regret, two years after the tragedy of George Floyd, that this government does not have a more detailed record in this regard. The special commission on the colonial past skates, despite its indispensable character. The consensus between the experts we expected did not finally take place and the differences in methodology within the majority, oscillating sometimes between guilt and symbolic measures, does not help to make peace with our past. The long-awaited official visit of King Philippe to the Congo a few weeks ago will certainly have allowed to heal some wounds, but the expression of his deepest regret in the absence of genuine and sincere apologies left a certain bitterness in the leader of the Congolese people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u125	Dear colleague, you say that the commission on the colonial past is a patina. When do you come to the colonial past commission? To be able to say that she skates, you must at least be present at the works! I find this unpleasant and quite incorrect, I wanted to stress it!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u126	Dear colleague, I come when I can in this committee, not every time, it's true. I have other agendas. We are only two Members and we can follow only a limited number of committees. There are several ways to follow a commission: by compiling the reports, by looking at the testimonies. I maintain that this committee could do better in carrying out its work. Even if I'd been there more, I'd tell you the same thing. The composition of the committee is not the problem here. The return of Patrice Lumumba's tooth is certainly the most important moment during this official journey. I quote Jean Omasombo: "The question of Lumumba's tooth is fundamental. Lumumba made the identity of the Congo through his speeches, his action, his commitment. It is the construction of the identity of the Congo as a nation belonging to the Congolese, so that the Congo becomes the property of the Congolese. Symbolically, it's an important element." DéFI will support this bill, which is a step in the right direction. However, a large construction site is still in waste because restitution, although imperfect, will help the Congolese people to enrich their own memory. To the Congolese people, I extend my most fraternal wishes for their national holiday, which falls on a Thursday this year. Good for them and good for us!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is 30 June, which is indeed a historic day. While we have some latitude, we do not yet choose the date of Thursdays. It was a strong symbol of having this text voted today, June 30, the day of Congo's independence. On this day, as has been pointed out, we were able to measure, in the difference between King Baudouin's speech and Patrice Emery umumba's speech, the gap between the Congolese and Belgian perspectives on the colonial period. So we can be proud. Let us not be afraid of the words: let us be proud to bring today, sixty-two years after independence, day to day, a text on the restitution of the spoiled goods, which is one of the most progressive texts in Europe on the subject. We can be proud of this, but I have still heard an intervention in this important place of our democracy, which shows that the fight against institutionalized racism has not yet been won. Every day's vigilance must remain in place. Flemish colleagues from the right side of the Chamber, we own the largest collection of African heritage in Europe in Belgium. Let me give you the example of the Suku Mask that the King returned to Kinshasa two weeks ago. That mask is very important in the Congolese cultural tradition. There are only 24 copies of the world. Of these, 18 are located in cellars in Tervuren and the 6 others are located in museums in other western countries. So today there are millions of young people who have no connection or connection to the work of their ancestors and cannot enjoy this work. That doesn't make any sense. It is therefore high time we all recognized that the documents on which we know with absolute certainty that they were being robbed are not ours. It is illogical and unethical that in our public domain, in our collection, there are pieces of which we know with historical certainty that they were robbed. Mr Communist MEP of the PTB, today, beyond the great moral principles in which you are draping, your speech shows above all your ignorance of our approach, your lack of knowledge of the hand-in-hand work that has been carried out with our Congolese colleagues at the level of government, administrations and museums. We have been working together for over a year and a half on the subject. Today, in Brussels, there are teams from the Institut des Musées Nationaux du Congo (IMNC) to work closely together on an approach that has been co-built with the Congolese. So I cannot accept you saying that our approach is part of a neo-colonial framework. I believe that our legal framework is the most advanced in Europe. In the same vein as the words spoken by King Philip, we recognize that 100 per cent of the objects that were acquired during the period of the independent state of the Congo and during the colonial period between 1885 and 1960 are questionable. We introduce doubt about all objects, which, in accordance with the philosophy of the words spoken by King Philip, shows that the colonial regime was, in essence, an unbalanced, unequal regime based on racism and paternalism. Our approach reflects exactly these words and is part of a desire to look at our past in the face to rebuild a peaceful relationship, in the future, with our Congolese colleagues. So I cannot accept you saying that our approach is neocolonial and reproduces patterns of thought from the past. It is once again a way of showing that you have great moral principles, but that once you enter into practice, collaboration, exchange, and the construction of concrete devices, you are out of the question and out of responsibility. I come to a few specific questions which have been raised and which deserve an answer. As regards, first, the question of the link with the colonial past committee, which is entirely justified, we do not preempt the conclusions of this committee. As has been pointed out by Mr Briers, we provide a framework, a legal possibility that makes it possible, where appropriate, to make goods which are currently in the Belgian public domain alienable and which are therefore, by definition, inalienable. Secondly, with regard to collaboration with our Congolese counterparts and the priority of a legislative text in relation to the bilateral treaty to be signed, throughout the process, we have worked hand in hand with Congolese actors within the government and the cultural community. In the legislation, we have maintained flexibility for the necessary elements, so that the modalities are defined in the bilateral treaty to be signed by each of the partner States. As for the risk of emptying the museums, I was pleased to see that Mrs Gilson's fears could be eased. It should be noted that the Museum of Tervuren has nearly 100,000 objects, of which 1% is exposed. Indeed, some of them come from scientific collaborations, for which we have little doubt. Therefore, there is no risk of emptying the museums. We talked about the perimeter problem. Whether human remains or government archives, they will be the subject of a particular approach, as the nature of the issues that arise with respect to such heritage exhibits varies. The question of legitimacy, raised by Mr Dallemagne, was essential. Indeed, we have chosen not to define this concept in a restrictive and exhaustive manner, as is found in other texts of our legislative body – whether it is self-defence or the notion of "unbearable suffering" for euthanasia law. We leave a margin of appreciation to the panel of experts, just as we can leave one to judges and doctors in other circumstances. This commission is indeed crucial in the implementation of the approach. Its composition will be an important issue on which we do not express our views, since it will be part of the bilateral treaty that will be signed with our Congolese counterparts. In the explanatory memorandum, we wanted to state that, throughout our system, science plays a central role. Scientific examination on the basis of historical evidence plays a central role. Beyond the objects and specific questions on certain collections, this text is important because it creates a joint forum between Congolese and Belgian historians to talk about a common history that has its shadows, but that we must be able to face and rebuild together. Whether you like it or not, the colonial past has existed. It must be possible to discuss it on objective historical bases and it is the role of this commission to use objects as a pretext for conducting an in-depth historical dialogue with Congolese and Belgian experts around the table. In conclusion, I will use Dr. Mukwege's words that we met with His Majesty King Philip a few weeks ago on a recent trip to the Congo. He said that today the Congo suffers from two ills. As a doctor himself, he makes an analogy between a patient and the Congo. I know there are doctors in the room. He says the Congo has an open hemorrhage. This is the conflict in eastern Congo. These are the ills of bad governance, of the poor business climate that the Congo is suffering today. But the Congo also has an ill-healed wound that could infect itself: that of the colonial past. To calm the relationship with the Congo and build a Belgian-Congolese relationship of the future requires to work both on the hemorrhage by strengthening our partnerships, playing a very clear role in the international community, and on the colonial past that we must accept, because it existed. We have to look him in the face. This work on the restitution of stoned objects is part of this broader work, which is that of the Commission on the Colonial Past. We are working on this and I am pleased that we can now pass on this text, which recognizes that 100 per cent of the objects from the colonial period can be subject to examination of doubt and to historical and scientific examination, so that the source can be analysed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u128	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I have noticed that you are arguing from the casuism of a piece on loan. However, your draft text is unconstitutional. You mention your legal framework le plus avancé de l'Europe. Well, I call your legal framework window dressing. The Council of State is devastating about the legal basis of what you are presenting here today. That doesn't change the fact that you're ignoring your own agreements in your own coalition. You have committed yourself to this in the coalition agreement. You're gonna kick your ass today. Mr De Vriendt, the chairman of the Congo Commission, is not here today. I would have liked to have heard his views on the way in which you are wiping your feet at the agreements that have been made there today. Moreover, your bill is being shattered by experts from civil society and the scientific community. You take offense at the fact that I call your text colonial, but I will stick with that. You don't want to accept that criticism. I understand you don't like hearing that, but you do what you do. It is a sober fact that your approach is one-sided. You make a decision and you unilaterally impose it on another person. As a member of the Belgian Government, you wish to determine unilaterally the conditions and frameworks for that refund. There is no participation in that. What agreements do you have with the Congolese Government? Show them to me. What agreements do you have with the governments of Rwanda and Burundi? When did you discuss this? You didn't do anything to discuss this. You don't have anything on paper. Then you come here with a draft law to validate treaties that do not even exist yet. You decide for someone else here, and that's what you call equality. I call your approach neocolonial. Whether you like it or not, that doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u129	Madam President, as usual, there is no mention of what I have just said here for quite a long time. Mr Secretary of State, I continue to find it very strange that we in the special committee are divided into A and B Members of Parliament. I also find it completely incomprehensible, unless you give me a very good reason, that the chairman of the special committee is not even here. I find that completely incomprehensible and not done. The reality is, of course, that you held a majority consultation on this draft. This has led to the absurd situation that, a few weeks ago, we received a whole series of legal and technical explanations on how your draft law was drawn up, but that you did not even take place on your agenda to visit that special committee. I do not know what we will have to say to you in July or September. I don't know when you'll find a free moment in your schedule. All in Belgium's style, you say that we are the most progressive country in this area. I know there are similar initiatives in France. I also know that there are modest initiatives in Italy concerning Ethiopia. They're listed here. I also know that a debate on slavery is taking place in the Netherlands. I wonder whether there will also be debates in Spain or Portugal? Have you ever heard of Hernán Cortés? Have you ever heard of Francisco Pizarro? Perhaps the big difference is that those good boys at the time made sure that there can no longer be any descendants who can claim things, because the people whose works of art were taken away there were all destroyed. I am glad that Mr De Smet has also highlighted it very strongly, your draft law is a purely political exercise in the light of the quantitatively very large presence of Belgian fellow citizens of African origin. That is the political reason why we have been debating it for two or three hours. Is that a disgrace? No, but at least come out for it. Mr Defossé is in favour and Mr De Smet is in favour. That's the real reason why you're politically leading the band.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u130	Mr Secretary of State, I have taken note of your answers. They are rather incomplete on the bottom. I finally mentioned two criticisms and no real answer to them! The first criticism is that you put the plow before the ox. You made a bill before you made a treaty. You tell me: "Yes, but we worked hand in hand, with Congolese partners, with the IMNC. Obviously, there is a collaboration with the Museum of Tervuren and the IMNC, the Institut des Musées Nationaux du Congo, even if you are surely aware of the few failures that this collaboration presents. Moreover, it could be noted that this INMC could be drawn from the educational work carried out in relation to Congolese children visiting the Museum of Tervuren. I think Tervuren has lessons to learn from our Congolese partners in this area. But these are partnerships. which are not part of the essential question. The question is why, when a treaty is drawn up before it is passed into a bill, you have followed the reverse process, which poses a problem at the legal level, noted by the Council of State, but above all a political problem through blatant contempt for the Congolese, Rwandan and Burundian governments? As for my second criticism, no answer either! It dealt with the distinction between legitimate and illegitimate property. What I'm telling you is that all the property of colonization is illegitimate. And you're saying that 100% is questionable. But you also say in the interviews that 56% are legitimate. And then, suddenly, in your answer, you don't say anything! You tell Congolese, Rwandan and Burundian partners that everything is open but 56 per cent are legitimate. So there is no substantive answer and therefore my conclusion remains the same: the process of decolonisation of minds is not yet at the end of the road, including at the level of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u131	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u132	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2646/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2646/4) L'intitulé en néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and "draft law recognising the alienability of the goods relating to the colonial past of the Belgian State and establishing a legal framework for their restitution and restitution'. The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft law recognising the alienability of the goods relating to the colonial past of the Belgian State and establishing a legal framework for their restitution and restitution." The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u134	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 April 2022, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 12 May 2022 for the renewal of the term of office of a member of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Voluntary Discontinuation of Pregnancy. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 21 April 2022, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal for the renewal of the mandates of member of the Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy. The number of applications submitted is insufficient. The number of applications submitted is insufficient. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the terms of office of a member of the Commission for the evaluation of the voluntary termination of pregnancy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you publish a new appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of member of the Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u135	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 31 March 2022, a new call for candidates for the terms of office of alternate president and French- and Dutch-speaking clerks of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG was published in the Moniteur belge of 13 May 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 31 March 2022, a new call for candidates for the mandates of Deputy Chairman and of Dutch and French-speaking Registrar of the Disciplinary Board of the CREG appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 May 2022. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit for the term of office of French-speaking clerk: - Mr. Philippe Aoust, Honorary President of Justices of the Peace and Judges of the Police Court of the Judicial District of Namur. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit for the mandate of French-speaking Registrar: - Mr Philippe Aoust, Honorary Chairman of the Peace Judges and Police Judges of the Namur District Court. No candidature has been submitted for the terms of office of Dutch-speaking clerk and deputy president. No applications were submitted for the mandates of Dutch-speaking Registrar and Deputy Chairman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you send Mr Philippe Aoust's curriculum vitae to the political groups and make the appointment of the French-speaking clerk during next week's plenary session, and that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of office of alternate president and Dutch-speaking clerk. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose to transfer Mr Philippe Aoust's curriculum to the political groups, to the appointment of the French-speaking Registrar at next week's plenary session and to publish a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Deputy President and of Dutch-speaking Registrar. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u136	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 May 2022, an appeal for candidates for the post of French-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 18 May 2022. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 5 May 2022, a call for candidates for the post of French-speaking judge was published at the Constitutional Court in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 May 2022. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Kattrin Jadin, member of the Chamber; - Mrs. Nathalie Gilson, member of the Chamber. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Kattrin Jadin, MP; Mrs. Nathalie Gilson, MP. Pursuant to article 32, first paragraph, of the above-mentioned special law, the Chamber must submit a double list. In accordance with Article 32 (1) of the abovementioned Special Law, the Chamber is required to propose a list of two candidates. This list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. This list shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitæ of the candidates to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u137	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 March 2022, the candidates' CVs for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Implementation of the Euthanasia Act of 28 May 2002 were forwarded to the political groups with a view to presenting a double list of candidates for the mandates for which the applications were submitted in sufficient number. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 March 2022, the CVs of the candidates for the mandates of the member of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia were transmitted to the political groups with a view to proposing a double list of candidates for mandates for which sufficient applications were submitted. Various groups are asking to publish a new call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Several political groups are still asking for a new call for candidates to be published in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that you issue a new call for candidates for all terms of office as a member of the Euthanasia Monitoring Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 29 June 2022, I propose that a further appeal be made to candidates for all mandates of the Supervisory Committee euthanasia. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u138	The government called for urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill was introduced to assent to the following international acts: (1) the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of India on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, done at Brussels on 16 September 2021, and (2) the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, done at Abu Dhabi on 9 December 2021, and (3) the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United Arab Emirates on Extradition, done at Abu Dhabi on 9 December 2021, and (4) the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, done at Brussels on 11 March 2022, and (5) Protocol of 22 November 2017 amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, signed on 7 April 2022 in Strasbourg, No. 2784/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the following international instruments: 1. the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of India on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, done at Brussels on 16 September 2021; and (2) the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, done at Abu Dhabi on 9 December 2021, and (3) the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United Arab Emirates on Extradition, done at Abu Dhabi on 9 December 2021, and (4) the Convention between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the transfer of sentenced persons, done at Brussels on 11 March 2022, and 5) the Protocol of 22 November 2017 amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, signed in Strasbourg on 7 April 2022, 2784/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u139	Madam President, the urgency is caused by the fact that the Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance and the Treaty on Extradition between Belgium and the United Arab Emirates should enter into force as soon as possible for operational reasons. There are currently several Belgian criminal investigations which are closely linked to the United Arab Emirates and for which the early entry into force of these treaties is of great importance. These criminal investigations relate to large-scale drug trafficking and money-laundering offences involving large amounts of money. In the absence of a rapid entry into force, there is a danger that property benefits derived from infringements will be concealed and laundered and thus escape Belgian justice. It is also known that the alleged perpetrators of these offences are staying in the United Arab Emirates. Among these authors are important leaders of organized crime. An early entry into force is necessary to prevent the authors from escaping to other places in order to avoid Belgian prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u140	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your statement, in which you put forward sound arguments for the urgency of the agreement with the United Arab Emirates. However, we are faced with the very bizarre situation of linking this agreement with a series of others, including Iran. You don't tell me about that. I do not understand why the treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the transfer of sentenced persons would have any urgency. Can the government give an explanation for that? That would interest me very much in view of our voting behaviour in a moment's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u141	The general argument that was provided to me by the cabinet of Minister Van Quickenborne makes a whole and mutualizes the reasons for the various treaties that are mentioned, be they the United Arab Emirates or Iran.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u142	So, Mr Secretary of State, we are not really getting an answer. It would have been so nice if Minister Van Quickenborne had done it himself. I would like to say that it is extremely exceptional that such matters are linked together. I'll say even more, this is unpublished. I repeat that I understand your logic and that we can live with it. However, I have the impression that there is a catch here under the Iranian sand. Anyway, we'll have a chance to question the minister next week. However, I have not discovered here any reason to approve the urgency of this item on Iran. By the way, I think this applies to everyone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u143	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u144	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill amending the Law of 22 April 2019 on the Quality of Practice of Health Care, No. 2786/1. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in health care, No. 2786/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u145	Madam President, since the draft makes changes which are important for the operationalisation of the Federal Commission for the Monitoring of Practice in Health care, it is ordered to enforce the Law on Health and since the Commission takes over the powers currently exercised by the Provincial Medical Commissions (PGCs) and which will be lifted from 1 July 2022 as a result of the entry into force of the said Act, we ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u146	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u147	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending Article 69 of the Acts on the Council of State was tabled, coordinated on 12 January 1973, No. 2790/1. The Government requested the urgency declaration pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending Article 69 of the Laws of the Council of State was submitted, coordinated on 12 January 1973, No. 2790/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u148	Madam President, a third time for the road. The requests from Ms. Verlinden's office are better written than those from Mr. Vandenbroucke's office! (Laughter) Please consider this bill in accordance with rule 51 of the Rules of the House of Representatives. The urgency of this request is justified in the following. The bill aims to implement a substantial extension of the staff framework of the Council of State. This is absolutely necessary and urgent, as it will, inter alia, shorten the processing time for proceedings before the Administrative Dispute Section of the Council of State, which will benefit the security and legal protection of individuals and authorities. They will be able to have a final judgment in a case more quickly. This is all the more true since a number of urgent issues in the context of the public interest, such as files submitted in the context of the recovery and the energy transition, two important challenges, will be submitted to the Council of State for its assessment. It is therefore essential that these cases can be dealt with as quickly as possible in order to reach a final judgement. Finally, the extension of the staff framework will take some time (drafting of vacant functions, review, analysis, appointment orders), so that this process must be possible as soon as possible, with the introduction of the bill in Parliament being a necessary but urgent first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u149	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u150	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2793/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2793/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u151	The urgency is called for and motivated by the situation in which the Data Protection Authority (DPA) is located. Indeed, the Court of Auditors' audit of 31 May 2021 on the functioning of ODA showed that ODA was hampered by severe dysfunctional problems. One of the concerns raised by the Court of Auditors concerns the Organic Act on ODA of 3 December 2017. In this regard, the audit notes in its conclusions and recommendations that the legal framework for the organizational structure of ODA creates operational difficulties. The legal framework is detailed so that ODA has little room for manoeuvre to increase the effectiveness of its organization. In addition, it creates problems as not all the tasks that ODA is supposed to perform under European regulations have been assigned to one direction and there are overlaps in the law. The search for a solution to these problems is also hampered by the fact that the Management Committee has no residual competence. These aspects of the legal framework currently hamper internal organization and effective processing of cases. Recommendation 15 of the Privacy Act Evaluation Report of November 2021 focuses on the adaptation of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority in order to strengthen its independence and functioning. The purpose of this bill is to respond to the recommendations of the audit of the Court of Auditors and to the Privacy Act Evaluation Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u152	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u153	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (Art. 75, No. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u154	There is an urgent request for a motion for a resolution requesting the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the so-called DBFM projects under way by the Régie des Bâtiments (Document No 2788).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution seeks, as you say, to make an analysis by the Court of Auditors of DBFM projects at the Régie des Bâtiments. In the Court of Auditors Committee, the Court of Auditors pointed out that it was fine to entrust him with tasks, but that they needed to be circumscribed and to take account of the staff of the Court of Auditors. This is indeed an important study to be carried out and it has therefore asked us to designate it as soon as possible, if possible before the summer holidays, so that it can organize itself with a view to fulfilling its mission. We therefore call for urgency at the request of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u156	I am not surprised that the MR considers this urgent. The government agreement states that all DBFM projects will be audited during this period of government. So between 2020 and 2024 we need an audit. Mr Piedboeuf, may I conclude from the urgent question that you are counting on the early fall of the government, otherwise you will have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u157	Madam President, this is just a request from the Court of Auditors! We are not in a hurry!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u158	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u159	There is an urgent request for a motion for a resolution calling on the federal government to review the current draft reform of the status of arts workers in consultation with trade unions and professional federations (Document No. 2791).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u160	Madam President, before calling for urgency, I still wanted to thank all colleagues for the many messages we received following the death of the Princess of our Gaby Colebunders. And I would really like to thank Marie-Coline Leroy for moving next week's meeting so that we can be at her side. We call for urgent action on the motion for a resolution No 2791/1 calling on the federal government to review the current draft reform of the status of arts workers in consultation with trade unions and professional federations. It is clear that the government's current project on the table does not respond at all to the needs of artists on the ground. For some, there is even a risk of aggravation of their status and a risk of precarisation, and this is a cause for serious concern. We note that Vivaldi and the minister in particular remain deaf to these demands. We have also asked for hearings, which has been refused. Hence the tabling of this motion for a resolution in which we call on Vivaldi to review its copy as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u161	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u162	Mrs Merckx, you are also asking for the urgency of the bill amending various legislative provisions in order to ease the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 2794/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u163	Madam President, many of us have been shocked by the Supreme Court ruling in the United States, which is a famous step backwards for women's rights and, of course, the right to abortion. I went to the demonstration in front of the American embassy today. Many women were there and I can tell you that if the right-wing wants to attack women's rights, she will find a lot of women on her way. In view of what is happening in the United States, we are wondering in Belgium and it reminds us of a painful memory of what we have experienced here in Parliament when the right-wing came up in strength when we wanted to table a text to extend the right to abortion and to decriminalise it completely. We then witnessed a blockage and we also saw a rather rare front between conservatives and right-wing and far-right people to block women's rights. After that, we witnessed a blackmail to which parties that had tabled this bill with us - there were eight of us - gave in to enter the government. In the end, women's rights have weighed little in the negotiations of the Vivaldi government. We therefore believe that the best answer to the right when it goes up the niche to tackle women's rights is to be offensive and to extend the rights of women in Belgium. The right to abortion is far from complete. A woman who has an IVG beyond 12 weeks of pregnancy is liable to imprisonment. A woman still has to wait six days before she can do an IVG.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u164	Could you motivate the emergency, Mrs. Merckx?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u165	Given the refusal to put this proposal on the table, we decided to put it on the table ourselves. We therefore call for urgent action to change the law on abortion in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u166	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u167	There is still an urgent request for a proposal for a law on various provisions on temporary unemployment (document No. 2798).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extension of certain Corona measures on temporary unemployment, with three strands. The first is to address the issue of workers who have been unduly placed in temporary unemployment and who have been deprived of their wages; the second is to ensure the transition between economic unemployment and ordinary unemployment; the third is to deal with cases of force majeure, which must also lead to the granting of economic unemployment to certain workers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u169	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u170	Madam President, we have been informed that Mr Chanson and Mr Flahaut are not present for good reasons. Colleagues Anseuw and Buysrogge will change their voting behaviour accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u171	Mrs Matz and I will ensure the quorum of presences for colleagues Nahima Lanjri and Nathalie Muylle, who are absent tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u173	Yes 76 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u175	Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Tout le monde a-t-il voté et vérifié son vote? End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u177	Yes 82 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip191x.u178	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 7, 2022 at 12 noon. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 July 2022 at 12 noon.
