ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u2	Madam President, no one will deny that times are cloudy in the government. If we can believe the statements in the media and on the Twitter accounts, there is some tension between the coalition partners about the core exit. The work deal has also raised a lot of concerns. I am therefore surprised that we cannot welcome the Prime Minister here today, here in the house where the government is controlled. I sent you an e-mail this morning asking you to invite the Prime Minister, since his place is here at the moment. I received an answer on the reasons for his absence. The first reason was a meeting of the European Heads of Government at noon on the crisis in Ukraine. Everything has a ranking, and we must respect that the Prime Minister is there. That e-mail also states that the Prime Minister is expected to meet at a summit between the EU and the African countries at 2.15 p.m., which is 8 minutes ago. There, too, I understand that he has a role to play. The programme of that two-day summit shows that the official welcome is now beginning. At 3.45 p.m. there will be the opening ceremony and the thematic round tables will start at 4 p.m. Apart from the duties such as the official welcome and the opening ceremony, I almost read: opening reception............................................................................................................................................................. There are three questions addressed to him, which have now been assigned to other ministers. Of course, his absence has nothing to do with that summit between the EU and the African countries, nor does it have anything to do with the fact that he absolutely wants to see the opening ceremony. I do not know whether he should wave the Belgian flag there, or light a bonfire, or perhaps a gas burner that will ignite a European-African flame. I think he could be missed there. I believe, in the Prime Minister's priorities, that he should be present at the substantive discussions from 4 p.m., with great sadness, that an opening ceremony is higher than the controlling function of the House of Democracy and the House of Representatives. For these reasons, I would be particularly grateful if the Prime Minister would be at the disposal of this house until 16:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u3	Madam President, I am astonished by what I hear. We are still not monitoring the agenda of a Prime Minister who is attending an international meeting! We know that next to the meetings, there are also the corridors. When participating in an international meeting, work can be done outside the scheduled hours. So I'm completely stunned when I hear that kind of remark!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u4	Madam President, I would like to refresh the memory of our colleagues at the N-VA. During the previous legislature, on several occasions, we also wanted, and not demanded, the presence of the Prime Minister for reasons that seemed valid or legitimate to us because of certain topical issues, but the Prime Minister's international agenda was opposed to us as a valid excuse for not being present with us. At the time, I did not see the N-VA group supporting our efforts. Today, as Mr Piedboeuf has said, I see you scrutinizing the Prime Minister's international agenda and considering that his presence is not indispensable in certain fora, even though we are experiencing unrest that is particularly serious at the international level and that the issue of relations with other continents is important. And you would like the Prime Minister to be at your disposal. Your request is not illegitimate in itself, but at the same time, I would like to point out here that on some matters, when the Prime Minister was asked to come back because there was something about him coming back, he came back. He has always been available to Parliament. Today, it has obstacles justified by an international agenda and I believe that its justifications seem to correspond perfectly to the needs of its function. I don't see why, once again, you decide to make a procedural incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u5	Madam President, of course no one is buying into these arguments. The cameras are aimed at our meeting. In the light of today's topicality with a government that no longer knows what direction it is to go and wave a work deal that is not worthy of the word work deal and on which no expert had a good word, you would nevertheless call it a serious excuse for the fact that the Prime Minister is absent here in the House of Democracy, that he should be present at an official welcome at 14.15 p.m. and an opening ceremony from 14.45 p.m. to 16.00 p.m. I have indicated that I understand that the issue of Ukraine-Russia prevents him from being here. I'm really not being unreasonable. Although I do not know whether it will be world shocking, when the Prime Minister will lead you on a thematic round table at 4 p.m., I have even stated that I understand that. However, that is from 4 p.m. It is now 14.29 p.m. and the round table is in Brussels and not in Athens, Vienna or Latvia or any other country. The round table will take place a few kilometres from here. He avoids the house and ignores the questions that are being asked here, that's what it comes down to - because he wants to go to an opening ceremony! I won't even ask for a vote. After all, I know that the majority parties will press the green button again, because the Prime Minister does not want to show up here. The fact is that the Prime Minister refuses to speak to Parliament in the current circumstances. Colleagues, that is a democratic disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u6	Mr De Roover, in our country we have no problem in good tradition that our leader of government is present at international meetings where our country is represented by the Prime Minister. You do not have to fear that the green button will be pressed or not, because yesterday at the Conference of Presidents it was announced that the Prime Minister was apologized and your group did not say a word about it. There was no fundamental problem with the organisation of the meeting. I think that is contradictory with the show you are now trying to perform in plenary. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u7	Mr Verherstraeten, the facts have their rights, including in plenary. I would like to inform colleagues in full. I myself took part in the Conference of Presidents and asked whether the Prime Minister could not be present at the plenary session, given that the summit is taking place in Brussels. It was replied to the Conference of Presidents that the full agenda did not allow the Prime Minister to be present at all. Of course, we checked that agenda after the sitting. We have also contacted the President. This shows that the information provided at the Conference of Presidents is not at odds with, or only partly reflects, reality by my group. I assume that colleagues are also interested in full reality. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u8	Are there any comments? [[No, no, ……]] We'll go to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u9	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, We heard that Jozef Belmans, honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives, died on 5 February last. He served for the first time as a Member of Parliament on these banks between 1968 and 1978 and a second time from November 1981 to December 1987. In view of Jozef Belmans's journey – or Jo as he was more commonly called – one cannot help but think that he was predestined to pursue a career in politics. A young man from Campina, he went to study at the Catholic University of Leuven after the Second World War. He earned a doctorate in law and was also able to boast of the title of diploma in political and social sciences. It is in this context that his social commitment has awakened. He was also appointed president of the Flemish Association of Catholic Students. The Flemish aspect was close to his heart. He is one of the first founders of the Flemish People's Movement in the Kempen and sees bread in the People's Union in the 1950s, a very young party at that time. He joins and will represent his party in the city council of his city of Geel from the middle of the 1960s until the end of his active political career in 1988. In the seventies, he was also one of the leading figures of the party at the national level. For example, he served on the party council until 1987 and in the early years held the presidency of the Volksunia section in the Turnhout district. In the turbulent 1968, at the time of the student demonstrations and the "Leuven Flemish Republic," Jo Belmans was elected for the first time as a representative for the district of Turnhout. He was elected as a Member of Parliament for four consecutive elections until the People's Union lost six seats in the early elections of 1978 because of the attitude of the party in the famous Egmont Pact. As a Member of Parliament, he was also a member of the Cultural Council for the Dutch Cultural Community in the 1970s, which can be seen as the precursor of the current Flemish Parliament. As a member of the Commission on Language Law and Language Protection, he is also a pioneer of Flemish identity and language. After a short legislature as a senator, Jo Belmans again won enough votes in the 1981 election to be able to claim a seat in the House. He will remain a valued member of this House until the 1987 elections. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Although his last passage in this House as a representative of the people has been more than 35 years ago, we will remember Jo as an ardent advocate of the Dutch language and the Flemish character. As a highly critical specialist on the subject, he has fought several times in the debates on sensitive issues and issues such as the Egmont Pact and Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. The involvement in collective goals lies in the DNA of everyone who feels involved in the task of strengthening democratic vitality; I wanted to pay tribute to him. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u11	Madam President, Minister, our country has 500,000 long-term patients. A lot of people have a lot of stress at work. Many people are in burn out or get sick. And what did you decide this Monday? You decided to introduce the ten-hour day, allow and standardize night work until midnight. How many more patients will this happen? Minister, let the right-wing parties want us to work more and more and ask us to be more and more flexible, combining several jobs for wages of misery, we know that! But you, Minister, as a socialist? The workers' movement fought for the eight-hour day a hundred years ago. And today we are going to have the ten-hour day by Mr Dermagne, a socialist minister! How dare you? There is, moreover, the famous pilot project for evening work until midnight without any extra pay. You're going to get people to work without upsetting until midnight. Where are the major statements made by Mr. Magnette two weeks ago? "I don't want a return to 19th-century working conditions." And you, are you going to allow that? Then you'll tell me that it's on a voluntary basis and that people can choose. Do you know this in the world of work? This is the voluntary C4! People don't live in a bisounour world! Minister, the questions I am asking you are clear. How dare you allow the ten-hour day? How did you allow to work until midnight without a sursalary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u12	Minister, "We want to milk the Belgian milk cow for another ten years and you can keep the carcass," your fellow party member Laurette Onkelinx called the Flemings in 2010. She was wrong about the timing but the attitude of the PS today is still the same as then, Wallonia decides and Flanders pays. That will be the conclusion if we continue to roll out this work deal. The great announced labour deal, which would bring about the much-needed reform of the labour market, is a total failure, an empty box. This is not the reform that Flanders, let alone French-speaking Belgium needs. The target of increasing the rate of effectiveness to 80% will not be achieved in this way. The hammock culture is de facto confirmed. The bottleneck professions are not filled in. That slows down the growth of our economy. For the overheated labour market in Flanders, with a large shortage of skilled workers and servants, a different policy is needed than for Wallonia, with enormous unemployment. In Flanders there is a need for workers, in Wallonia for jobs. With this work deal, both parts of the country will remain orphaned. With the better working conditions for platform workers, the light relaxation for evening work in the e-commerce sector and the witch hunt for possible discrimination in the workplace, every political group in this colourful coalition has won a trophy, even if it is a very small one. How do we achieve an activity rate of 80% in each region with the measures announced? Why do you not give the regions the opportunity to pursue specific policies, with the benefits and burdens of their own political choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u13	This agreement is an agreement that helps people move forward, an agreement that protects people better and gives them control over their working week. Much is being said about this agreement, especially by people who clearly have no idea what can happen in the workplace. A first example is the bike messenger who drives around as a dummy self-employed person and has to draw his plan in the event of an accident. That is finally being dealt with. There will be no more stress over health and employment status. There will be clear guidelines that show what is right. All these people are getting better. The second example is a person in co-parenting. Today that person doesn't know what his or her schedule looks like next week or he or she can't choose to work less in the week in which the son is with him or her. That is finally being dealt with. There will be more certainty about working hours or an opportunity to plan your own agenda. All these people are making immediate progress. The third example is a person in full development. Today it is difficult to take a training course during working hours or one is obliged to wait while one wants to start a new job. This, too, is finally addressed with guaranteed training hours. It is also up to you to decide when to start the new job. We are pleased that this agreement protects people better and that work and private life are better organised. That is why this agreement is a step forward. Now it's time for the elaboration. How will you discuss this proposal with the social partners in the coming period?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the employment deal was concluded within the government at the beginning of this week. I believe the main message is: working is not punishment and giving work is certainly not punishment. We want to give people the will to work, because in this way we can create more jobs and also strengthen social security. Of course, dear friends of the PVDA, we will not be able to do more social spending if we do not have more people at work. The creed to give meaning to people must be that we must also give them freedom, freedom to organise their own work. If people want to agree with their employer to do their work on four days, they must be able to do so. If a family is in such a way that one wants to work a little more than the other, it must be possible. So far, we have had legislation that has actually regulated this very strictly and made it almost impossible to do so. We must also give employers the courage to give them greater freedom. We must dare to throw away the yoke of mistrust and allow employers to make agreements, for example in e-commerce, so that we can finally keep the thousands of jobs that we leave and go abroad with us, so that we can finally allow evening work. Of course, this is not the end of the job. I only have the impression that the opposition and some experts are expecting too much of what is to be done here. Of course, we have other issues besides this deal, such as Mr Vandenbroucke's route with the disability package. A very large group is in Flanders on that route. We need to activate them, too. That has now been agreed within the government for the budget. What is also very crucial is that we are now working together with the Regions to help people get to work faster, to get to know the vacancies that are available in Wallonia in Flanders, to be able to play faster on the ball so that everyone who is in an inactivity status today, together with the employment services, can find where they can get to work faster. Minister, we know what it is (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u15	Madam President, Minister, in order to achieve an employment rate of 80% by 2030, 660,000 more people need to be employed. I see in your program mainly warmed up. This is not about getting new people working, but about the distribution of existing work, a system for bike couriers, training facilities, a four-day working week, but not about more people working. In Flanders there is an employment rate of 75%. In Wallonia this is 10% less and in Brussels it is 5% less. We are above the European average in Flanders. Minister, 52% of non-EU migrants do not work either. In Wallonia, one in three between 20 and 64 years of age is not at work, Minister. In Brussels, one in five lives in a family where no one has ever done paid work. You're not doing anything about it. According to the RVA, at the end of 2021 there were no fewer than 160,000 people who stamped for more than two years. You are not doing anything about that, Minister. In Flanders, I don't know any industry that doesn't look for people. If one asks a labour expert the reason for this, then that is the unemployment trap, Minister. After a year of unemployment, there is only 15% less benefit than pay if you go to work. This can be compensated by all kinds of social rates. A second reason is the limitation of unemployment over time. We are the last country in Europe where unemployment can be made a career. Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u16	Minister, the government agreement actually provides for 80% employment rates by 2030. We're not going to do that, it's clear; we're going to need more flexibility. Our labour market is still too rigid and obviously lacks flexibility. The employment agreement we are talking about could be summed up in one sentence: more flexibility but also better protection of work, with measures that we liberals support, namely the four-day week, the strengthening of e-commerce - which has already been much debated, but which is also a tool for our local businesses - the fight against jobs in short supply, a real training account or the right to disconnect, for which we plead loud and clear. All these measures, let us repeat, will be taken on a voluntary basis and will allow - this is something I have been fighting for a long time - a better reconciliation between family and working life. My questions will focus on platform workers. E-commerce is not just Amazon or Ali Baba; collaborative platforms are not just Deliveroo or Uber Eats. I would therefore like to know, because this is an important pool of jobs and economic performance, whether you can confirm that the 2006 Act will not be amended, but, on the contrary, ensure better protection for workers. Do you also confirm to me that the reform is in line with a European vision of a presumption of wage-earning, but a presumption that would be reversible? Can you tell me what the criteria are? Do you have an estimate of how many jobs this will create? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u17	Madam President, Minister, as the burn-out figures increase, at a time when workers want meaning in their work, at a time when citizens want to reconcile their family and working lives, this week's agreement offers good promises but also has several points of attention. In this agreement, several elements improve the quality of life at work: receiving one's schedule earlier, the right to disconnect, the possibility of organising one's schedule according to shared custody – I say "possibility". This agreement also marks a major turning point in the right to training. Of course, the right to training already exists, but if one digs, what does reality say? She says that more men are trained and that those who are already the most qualified have more access to training. If you are a woman and you are unqualified, real access to the right to training is less guaranteed! It was essential for environmentalists to give an individual right to training because we know the value of career training. This week's Government Agreement and Job Deal implement this individual right to training, which is an excellent thing. As far as platform workers are concerned, they will a priori be employees, unless there is evidence to the contrary, and they will be better protected against accidents at work. That goes in the right direction. However, night work remains a focus for environmentalists. Night work is a difficult work that must be recognized as such. It affects people's lives. For us, it is clear that in exchange for flexibility, wages must adapt. There is a need to pay more for evening work. Minister, what do you expect for those who are going to work at night? Are their premiums and bonuses guaranteed? What is your vision of quality employment? What is your vision of worker protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u18	Minister, last week I asked you to make a decision. In the meantime, it has been decided, and that is a good thing. When I hear the opposition and the media in the last week, people have the impression that it is an immobile asset, as if nothing had happened. Colleagues, I would like to point out that 88 000 jobs were created last year. I'm not saying that. It's the National Bank's figures. Not only 30,000 unemployed but also 55,000 inactive people have returned to work. Unfortunately, the same report also states that it is very difficult for young people, for 55-plussers and for low-skilled people to make the connection to the labour market, even though there are many vacancies today. Minister, that requires tailor-made work, including with the Länder, because there are three labour markets today. We need to establish concrete forms of cooperation there with each other. It's about activating the unemployed, getting a picture of long-term sick much faster and seeing if they can get back to their job or being reoriented to a new job. It is also about the combination of benefits and getting back to work and matters such as flexibility and part-time pensions. I do not agree if the Prime Minister says that activation is just a story of the states. It's a story of both. When does the interfederal platform deliver results? For CD&V this is a first step, but next steps are now needed. What's your plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u19	Madam President, Minister, like many others, I was eagerly looking forward to the work deal you proposed with the government earlier this week. The problems are well known: 90% of our companies are no longer filling their vacancies and at the same time a workforce of more than two million people in this country is not being exploited. Those two million people can earn a higher or better income if we can help them get a job, for example, with which they can pay their towering energy bills. I found the introduction to the press conference on the labour deal particularly strong. Only it turned out when the introduction had ended, that the whole press conference had ended. So I stayed behind, along with many others, experts, employers, but also a lot of employees, with that one question: is this it? In fact, the so-called employment deal you have proposed does not contain one concrete activating measure that can help more people to get to work. It's basically just a pickup of some loose things with little news under the sun. Many people now have the mouths of the four-day working week, but it has actually existed in this country for more than twenty years. The regulation on night work in the e-commerce sector also changes very little, because the trade unions retain the right of veto in the facts and the night apparently still starts, strangely enough, at 8 p.m. in this country. This agreement is really a missed opportunity. A missed opportunity to give more people in this country a good income and a missed opportunity to create even more prosperity for companies in our country. Mr. Secretary, is this it? Is our labour market going to have to deal with the blanks from your labour market deal, or is there going to be a real labour market reform after this, with real measures that really give people the chance to get a good income and give them the chance to create more prosperity in this country? I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u20	Minister, today I want to talk about progress, the right to disconnect, the individual right to training, and more predictability in working hours for part-time workers. I would, of course, also like to highlight a major step forward on which I have already asked you a lot, because you know that I have been defending this issue for a long time: I am talking about social protection for platform delivery operators. Since Tuesday, I have received a lot of messages from Deliveroo and others, who are relieved, because they will now be able to claim the status of employee more easily, with all the rights it implies. Thus, they will be able to benefit from insurance against accidents at work, which are 15 times more numerous in their sector than elsewhere. They rejoice – and you have to be able to say it. Minister, as soon as the law is passed, how will these delivery agents get this status as an employee? What steps will they have to take? What rights will they get? Will all workers be covered against accidents at work, regardless of their status?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u21	Minister, I think the Prime Minister has something against me. Last week he assigned my colleague Van der Straeten, today it is you. I don't know if it's really a loss, but apparently it's starting to be a system. In any case, he is absent and avoiding the debate, so I have to ask you the questions. He said something very interesting, namely that the regions are responsible for the activation. The real experts have immediately said that this is not true, that there are many federal powers that make the effective exercise of Flemish, Walloon and Brussels autonomy impossible. That's where he was taught. That does not alter the fact that we are fully following the intention. We also believe that these powers should go to the Länder, because there are problems. In the name of CD&V, I will take up the defence of Mrs Crevits, who said this week that this work deal absolutely does not address at all the concerns she has shared in this regard. She also mentioned your name. She even said that cooperation with Minister Dermagne was not the way it should be. She expects more from you. She expects you to finally give her the opportunity, as stated in the coalition agreement, to pursue that asymmetric policy. However, she says there is nothing coming from Dermagne. Since you can't handle it, as this employment deal shows, what will you do to live up to the great dream of Prime Minister De Croo, namely that the Länder will have full competence for activation in the labour market? I would very much like to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u22	Madam President, the agreement on Monday night's labour reform raises many questions. I understand that. It is, after all, an important reform for our economy and our labour market. The agreement is not only about figures, percentages, data or budgets, it is also about people's daily lives, about their work and the link with their private lives. The government really takes into account the aspirations of the workers. The world has changed. The importance of qualitative and meaningful work is increasing for workers. They want work that suits their lives and not the other way around. We must listen to this desire for change. We must also take this into account. As you know, the current government is aiming at an employment rate of 80% by 2030. We all endorse that. To achieve this level, we have already taken important measures. For the first time in 15 years, the minimum wage has been increased. The mini-tax shift will increase the purchasing power of people on low and average wages. We're moving on. We will continue with the regions, with which I have worked out a plan against labour shortages. An inter-federal platform has been set up with all public administrations responsible for Work. Its aim is to develop measures to address bottlenecks and to strengthen the mobility of workers. The platform is also the forum for discussions on asymmetric policy. In this way, I want to meet the needs of the various regions as well and as quickly as possible. There are also the employment conferences. These annual conferences are devoted to various professions which are currently underrepresented in the labour market. They have a different focus each year and will lead to policies tailored to those professions. Contrary to what some pessimists claim, the figures improve. Since the government took office, the employment rate has risen by 1.5 % and there are almost 60 000 unemployed in our country. There are also more people working than before the crisis. The employment rate has increased by 1% since March 2020 and women have even doubled, 2% more women are working today. Today's employment rate is the highest in 20 years. In other words, governments have good results, results that can be seen. The labour market reform, which was decided this week, will further contribute to an increase in employment rates and thus to a reduction in unemployment. But unlike you, Mr. De Roover, Mr. Dedecker, Mr. Anseew, I don't want low cost jobs. I don't just want jobs. Yes, we want to reach this rate of 80%, but no, it is not by limiting unemployment benefits over time that we will achieve this objective. It is not by exchanging workers as objects that we will achieve this objective. No, it is not by generalizing flexi-jobs that this objective is achieved. It is not by getting people to work all night without being overworked that we will achieve this goal. No, it is not by forcing workers to work ten hours a day without compensatory leave that this objective is achieved. No, it is not by keeping platform workers in precarious status that this goal will be achieved. It is not by turning workers into laborers or slaves that this goal is achieved. In short, it is not by returning to the 19th century that we will achieve this target of 80%. What I want, what we want in this government, is quality jobs. Jobs that adapt to the aspirations of workers. Jobs that offer fulfilling working conditions and fair remuneration. Nor will I accept that this 80% target is achieved by binding, punishing or impoverishing workers. On the contrary, this target of 80%, we will achieve it by training all the workers in this country, I insist, through an individual right of five days a year for training. It is by forcing employers to reflect annually on a training plan for all workers that we will achieve this objective. It is by allowing workers to adapt their working hours to their private and family life that we will achieve this objective. It is by giving workers a right to disconnect so that they can really breathe, be fully with their family and friends by taking advantage of their leisure time that we will achieve this goal. It is by guiding work in e-commerce that we will achieve this goal. It is by increasing wages and, in particular, the minimum wage that we will achieve this objective. Yes! We want to achieve this target of 80%, but we do want to achieve it by improving the conditions and remuneration of every worker in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u23	Minister, it seems to me that I have not really received an answer to my question. Why do you allow ten-hour day today, when we fought for eight-hour day a hundred years ago? You did not answer that question. That's what you decided on Monday. Why do you authorize, through the pilot projects, that we would work until midnight? I hear some here talking not about volunteering, but about freedom. Is that freedom? Work ten hours a day? Work until we die? Besides, what you've done, and what you do systematically with this government, is put the unions aside. Not only in their role in companies to defend workers, but also in social consultation. Just look at their reactions. I quote Thierry Bodson: "The week of four days is a murderous knife!" The CSC said she was appalled. In any case, you must know that the PTB will be on the workers' side; we will fight for better working and living conditions for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u24	More compromises were made for the work deal than jobs were created. You must, of course, try to make something small out of it and defend the indefenable. However, an analysis of your work deal shows that there is very little food and drink in it for those who want to save our economy and who want to keep pensions and social security affordable. In this way, nothing will come into the house of 80% of the promised efficiency rate by 2030. After all, there is no activating measure in the deal. Moreover, long-term unemployment, often from generation to generation, cannot be tackled in some Brussels and Walloon regions. Despite the promise in the coalition agreement and despite the compelling demand of the Flemish government, no asymmetric policy is allowed. Work isn't gonna be more attractive. Reduce the burden on labour. Give each region its own specific policy and activate the 1.7 million inactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u25	Together with higher wages and minimum wages, the agreement mainly protects platform workers. The deal also ensures that work can be better tailored to the personal questions and needs of the family. The world doesn't stand still. I myself have been active as a trade union representative for many years and have been asked repeatedly how working hours could be adapted to co-parenting or how working hours could be adapted to the day of training. I had to keep telling that employee the answer. Hopefully, no Member now has to say that nothing can be done about it. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u26	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the duty of the opposition is to pose. According to one, the government will have done too much, and according to the other too little. For us it is a fair deal, whereby we give back freedom and autonomy to employers and employees to organise the work together. Many here pretend that's nothing. But I've read about our labor deal in international media. He got the press in Spain and Italy. The way in which we will classify our work week, and the freedom we give to employees and employers to organise the work, was international news. In Flanders, people pretend that doesn't mean anything. Let us look at the reality, we are making considerable progress here to modernise the labour market. Are we there now? No, of course not. Colleagues of the N-VA, you are right, we still have things to do, including in the area of incapacity for work. We must do this together with the Regions. Following on from the statement of the colleague of CD&V, I also expect the regional minister (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u27	Minister, I have a solution for you. I like proletariat, I have something against profitarians. We have made all these years of work so expensive that it is time for us to offer them. Dear communist friends, I have nothing against living wage and minimum wage, at the bottom of the ladder. I have something against the fact that everything is being skimmed from who works, to pay for everything at the bottom of the ladder. This discourages work. Minister, the solution is very simple. I've been telling our blue friends for 20 years. Make a minimum income of 15,000 euros. For this 15,000 euro you make a tax-free sum of 15,000 euros. Then everyone's happy. The people will work out and so the purchasing power will increase at the bottom of the ladder. That is a fantastic socialist, communist and even liberal solution. Do something, instead of...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u28	Minister, thank you. Working is emancipating. To work is to be free, to be free to work more at certain times of your life, more than ten hours a day if you want to. To work is to be able to build without anyone imposing their life plan on you. If we reach 80% of the employment rate, that's 26 billion for the state. It is 26 billion to carry out ambitious policies, to reduce taxation, to increase the purchasing power of citizens. If, in addition, we are able to find measures to better reconcile work and family, we have won everything. Minister, I can only invite you to stand by to defend these measures because it is through such measures that we will change our economy but above all our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. Your text will now be forwarded to the social partners. We will obviously have a debate on the basis of their opinions, but for us two issues are essential. First, control. Training must be implemented. Labour law must be respected. Platform workers must be heard. Yesterday, we were talking about businesses in my province, where people learn their end-of-day time when they arrive. It's illegal, but it exists. Social inspection must be able to control. It needs to be strengthened. It is useful for companies to be on an equal footing and it is necessary for workers. Then there's the evaluation in e-commerce. As you said, the measure is temporary and will be evaluated. Evaluation is a good thing. It is too rare an opportunity for us in labour law to be able to monitor the actual implementation of a measure. We, environmentalists, want to highlight opportunities while ensuring that we are very vigilant (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that you have shown once again what the government has achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear some laughter here, but I would like to point out that we were here a year and a half ago, with more than 1 million temporary unemployed. Then the discussion here was about keeping jobs. Today we are having a different discussion, and we are having a proper discussion. We have to feed them, too. What Flanders is asking of you, Minister, are federal tools to do things, to activate the unemployed, to activate the inactive. That is what Mrs Crevits is asking, ladies and gentlemen. Let us work on this in the coming weeks, together, because it is more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u31	Minister, this work deal will not solve labour shortages. All this has to do with the high homeopathic content of the activating measures. The lavage is so thin that we cannot expect anything from it. You always give the impression that there is a contradiction between good working conditions, which is also our concern, and activating measures. But that's a false contradiction, of course. While colleagues are knocking on their chests that this is an agreement that is full of freedom, it is mainly distrustful. The right to deconnect, ladies and gentlemen of Open Vld, will force a lot of workers who today have the freedom to adapt their work to their private lives into a straitjacket where they do not really belong, which they do not want to be in. Spain and Italy, Mr Lachaert, are nice holiday destinations, but they really cannot be an example of a labour market policy that is similar. This work deal, Minister, really doesn't make anyone any better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u32	Minister, it is true that the agreement is not perfect. It's a compromise. It's a negotiation. Some measures may please or displease. I, too, am disturbed by some things: the week in four days. This will go for some and it must remain a choice. But a real collective breakthrough for all workers is the collective reduction of working time. This is the position of my party; it is the one that I defend and that I will continue to defend. When you criticize, you have to do it honestly and I can't let lies, Mrs. Merckx. No, e-commerce workers won't have to work until midnight without a break! What you're saying is not true! Dare you say, in the eyes of the workers, that their upsalary is over! You'll have criticized the platform workers by telling them it's peanuts. We got some progress. And, you, as usual, didn't get anything. You do not negotiate and, when the moment arrives, you criticize everything without doing anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your warning not to return to the 19th century. I can assure you that we do not want that, but if I hear some of your chairman's proposals, the 19th century would be a step forward, because I have the impression that he has not even arrived there yet. As far as your good cooperation with the Länder is concerned, I simply quote: 'This work deal again contains no element to be able to pursue an asymmetric policy. However, the Flemish labour market has very different needs than those of Wallonia or Brussels." That is what Minister Crevits says, who is directly in your coalition, but you leave her in the cold. If Brussels and Wallonia had the same level of activity as Flanders, then your government had no budgetary problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u34	Madam President, Minister, yesterday the European Court of Justice delivered a very important ruling on the rule of law mechanism. What exactly is that about? Countries which do not respect the standards and values of the rule of law may incur sanctions. This is a directive that the EU has adopted and which deals with important standards and values, such as gender equality, the principle of non-discrimination, respect for the independence of the judiciary. We know how these principles are regularly violated in Poland and Hungary. We know that sanctions are being considered in Poland against magistrates who would be in Europe-minded. We know that in Hungary public tenders are sometimes intended to benefit friends. It is important that the European Court of Justice says here: enough is enough. Countries that do not recognize this can be sanctioned. The Prime Minister once said in the Chamber that the EU is not a cash machine where one comes into the EU's money and then wipes his feet at European values. That is why it is important that the European Commission act quickly now and does not allow time to pass. Hungary, of all people, says today that the ruling of the European Court of Justice would be a political decision. One has to dare. Madam Minister, what initiatives will our government take vis-à-vis the European Commission to implement the judgment of the European Court of Justice as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u35	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, since yesterday, the Court of Justice of the European Union has been blowing a wind of freedom across Europe, which is a strong reminder that this Europe, which was formed painfully after the war on an economic base, on a social foundation, is also historically constituted on a basis of common values and the rejection of hatred and difference, and embodies the highest humanistic values. From Brussels to Budapest, from Athens to Copenhagen and from Paris to Warsaw, the Court strongly recalls that the European Union is an area of freedom, an area of law and freedom. The Court warns those Member States which forget it, those Member States which violate these rights and freedoms. Yes, the European Commission can today punish capitals that violate the rule of law lightly; yes, it can deprive a Member State that does not respect fundamental rights of Community money. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court's decision yesterday is not just a symbol, it is worth its weight of gold both in its own sense and in its figurative sense. It gives a fatal blow, it kills in the egg "Europe à la carte": a state can only take what interests it! It is not just the structural funds, the free movement of capital, the single market, not respecting democracy, disregarding the sexual orientation of the citizens of Europe, manipulating justice, assimilating homosexuality to paedophilia, preventing women from having their bodies! Yesterday, Minister, justice gave the European Union the keys to hitting Hungary and Poland on the portfolio. Minister, I welcome this, but can you tell us more about the impact of this decision? How will Belgium position itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u36	Madam President, Mr Dewael, Mr Lacroix, the European foundation is our values, nothing else; the rest was built after. This is first of all our values, of which the rule of law is a part, the rule of law, which in Europe is an essential priority and a constant European policy within which Belgium is very committed. The European Regulation on conditionality for the protection of the budget is one of the instruments necessary for its protection. Contested by Hungary and Poland, the Court held, first, that the mechanism in question was adopted on the basis of an appropriate legal basis and, second, that it is consistent with the procedure provided for in Article 7 of the Treaties and that it respects the limits of the powers conferred on the Union. The most important thing is that, according to the Court, respect for the fundamental values of the EU by the Member States is the basis for mutual trust and solidarity. In fact, we have taken that view from the outset. I therefore welcome the decision in that judgment which guarantees the validity and legality of that important mechanism. It is crucial to act vigorously when there is a significant or systematic violation of the rule of law. As you know, Belgium has repeatedly argued in the Council to encourage the Commission to use this mechanism as soon as possible if concrete cases are to be revealed. We reiterate this call today. I will do it myself, not later than next week at the General Affairs Council. Although the purpose of the Regulation is to protect the interests of the EU, it is directed against violations of the rule of law and is therefore a very useful complement to the institutional arsenal, such as Article 7 and infringement proceedings relating to the enforcement of the rule of law in Europe. It makes it possible to prosecute a problem such as discrimination, violation of the rule of law, attack on press freedom or corruption. I will conclude with a comment on the Hungarian law against LGBTQI. You know that Belgium has played a role as a flag bearer by bringing in 17 other Member States to condemn Hungary extremely strongly for this law which is unbearable. We have brought to the Commission the will to attack this law at the same time. The European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties and has demanded that Hungary revert to this law. Hungary has not done so and we now ask that we go to the end of the process. That's what I'll do next week!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u37	Thank you for the very clear answer. We also need to look at this in the context of the election campaign that is beginning in Hungary. It is too crazy for words to say that the country which has gone to the European Court of Justice and is wrong, among other things, today says that the European Court of Justice is guilty of a political decision. This will undoubtedly be part of Hungary's discourse in the coming weeks. The resources, that is, the money that Europe is making available, are, of course, an extremely important weapon. The European Commission must act quickly and make it clear without delay that these funds will not be paid if the countries concerned do not comply with the values that we consider important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u38	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answer, for your fight and for your diligence in this fight. I thought your answer would be applauded by all the benches of this assembly, because we are talking about a decision of justice that embodies the human and humanistic values, that is, the timeless values that characterize us, the human beings we are. Unfortunately, for obscure or political reasons, some have not applauded your answer in this House, and I deplore it, because Belgium, through your voice, that of our government and of this coalition, has indeed carried the voice of those who are demanding more respect, more fundamental freedoms. We got a victory but obviously the fight is still long. I think we're all gonna make it together. Thank you again for your action!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u39	Madam President, Minister, a few weeks ago we had a debate in committee on the exhaustion of railway workers. They keep telling you, but you don't hear them! Dir heiert cleans up! The social inspection had to intervene in order to force SNCB to grant or refund compensation days: 110 000 days must be recovered by 8,000 railway workers – 13 days per railway. It's huge! From now on, SNCB does not even want to let them recover, but to pay them back in cash for lack of staff. But the railway workers are exhausted and must be able to recover. The CSC-Transcom announced yesterday the launch of a large-scale petition campaign for massive recruitment into our railways. In 2013, there were still 34,703 full-time equivalents; as of December 1, 2021, the latter were only 27,602. In parallel, the number of travellers exploded: there were 224 million in 2010 and, fortunately, there were more than 30 million more in 2019. Minister, the CSC makes three requests in its document. It calls for the government to include in the management contract currently under negotiation human resources in line with railway ambitions, for significant financial resources to be allocated to SNCB and Infrabel for this purpose of recruitment and for them to be used properly. Minister, my questions are simple. What are you going to do? Will you consider the CSC-Transcom recommendations? How will you be freed so that the Belgian railways can hire sufficient staff? How are you going to control the use of these devices for staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u40	Mr Arens, as you know, I am delighted every time we talk about train and rail mobility in this plenary. You give me the opportunity to thank the staff, railwaymen and railwaymen who took over during the covid, who repaired the network after the floods, who were also victims of the covid until recently. You asked me if the suspended trains were back. I do, and I'm glad. I am obviously concerned about the personnel situation and wish the best for our railway companies. This requires different ingredients. We need a vision for the future. We're working on it. This is vision 2040 that we were talking about in this assembly last Thursday. We need ambition. The government's ambition is very clear. We want to increase the modal share for passenger transport from 8 to 15%. We want to double the volume of goods transported by rail. This ambition must be reflected in documents that are under negotiation (SNCB's public service contract, Infrabel's performance contract, masterplan for freight). All this will lead to more people, more revenue, more goods. Of course, it will be necessary to recruit staff. Recruitments are under way at the SNCB level. Sometimes open posts do not find candidates. The shortage of labour also affects SNCB. I'm sending a call to those who listen to us. These are great careers with a very positive status. It also requires a capacity to retain workers, to fight for more respect – the SNCB is launching a campaign to this end today – and to train workers. I'll remind you of the Infrabel Academy. And we also need resources. An additional EUR 1.7 billion has already been made available for rail. Future contracts will have to be accompanied by a budget path on which I am working. It takes ambition for the rail. Who says ambition for rail says staff on trains because you can't drive a train without a driver, driver, attendant or attendant. Everything we do, we also do for rail personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u41	Madam President, I thank the minister for what he has just said. I'm not saying for his answers, but for what he just said. Minister, it is true that you have ambition. You are presenting documents that are ambitious. But where are the means, God's name? Where are the means? That's where it's gone! We, cdH, require social clauses in the management contract. We also want financial resources in all operating budgets to recruit staff. I'm counting on you and I'll follow this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u42	Minister, the health crisis has shown us again, we lack doctors. It is precisely in this context that only half of Francophone medical and dental students will receive their valuable INAMI number after six years of study. Last Wednesday, you finally accepted the postponement of your bill, which gives us hope for a real consultation with the Communities and students. However, it was finally under pressure and following a petition – signed by nearly 7,000 students – and a demonstration in front of your office that you agreed to meet the students. You told them that you were determined to get your bill through despite the ongoing negotiations. For being with the students at this event, know that they are equally determined to block your law because they are entitled to practice the profession for which they have studied so much. In addition, doctors who are now overloaded, exhausted and aging need reinforcement. What is happening today is literally the future of our health care! Minister, why do you keep this clause in your bill? What can be expected of these negotiations from the moment when you make it clear that this article is ultimately "only a tool of pressure and blackmail on the Wallonia-Brussels Community"? Why do you strengthen these INAMI quotas when we know that they exacerbate the shortage of doctors, which you yourself have recognized? If you care so much about these quotas, why are you slow to assess the medical supply with a view to adapting it to the real needs observed on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u43	Madam Member, as you said, exchanges of views and negotiations are under way. For me, there is a threefold objective at the heart of this debate in accordance with the government's agreement. The first objective is a medical supply better adapted to the needs and, as has been said, special attention must be paid to the shortage of specialties. I am thinking in particular of general practitioners, but also of psychiatrists, for example. The mathematical models of the Federal Planning Commission are already very precise and take into account many future parameters and scenarios. Moreover, as you know, the creation of an inter-federal body on which the federal government agreed on a concept note a few days ago must also ensure better coordination and exchange of data between the different levels of power. My second objective is to provide legal certainty for students. We must avoid students starting long and demanding medical studies to see at the end of the course that they do not have access to the medical profession. My third objective is real planning, so real and transparent control of what has been agreed. That is the whole problem of quota compliance. I want to solve this problem of quotas in medicine, which has lasted for more than a quarter of a century. I want to solve it for the benefit of patients, for the benefit of students and doctors, not by multiplying the statements now but by seeking a concrete solution. We'll work on it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. When you say that statements should be avoided on the margins of the negotiations, I invite you to send this signal to your majority partners. In fact, when they speak in the press or in other assemblies, they do not hesitate to tell us, with their mouths in mind, how much they stand in solidarity with these students while your bill is the direct result of the government agreement, which provides for a mechanism of accountability for non-compliance with INAMI quotas. For the rest, you tell us that you want to ensure legal certainty for students, that you recognize that there is a shortage of doctors and, at the same time, what are you doing? You are systematically breaking the vocation of future doctors! So I have only one request to make to you in a very clear way, it is to guarantee every student who completes his medical studies an INAMI number.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Van der Straeten, you are experiencing turbulent times. It's getting warm under your feet. That reminds me of the Agalev era. After a majority of the Flemings, you are now also losing grace with many scientists and employers' organisations. They believe that a complete core step is ill-considered and irresponsible. You're the only one who doesn't think so. Pride comes before the fall, Madam Secretary. Even your own coalition partners are starting to distance themselves from you. Remember when you were gonna fix it all? And look where we stand today. Closing all nuclear power plants means importing more energy from abroad, more gas plants that emit CO2 with priceless gas prices and security of supply that is at risk from expensive energy prices. I don't know what world you're living in, but it turns out I'm right again day after day. They make firewood out of your energy policy. For months you laugh away any criticism and even say that you do not leave your sleep for it. In the last 20 years, no one has taken up the energy file properly. Nor is the N-VA, which is here today calling for a lifetime extension. That should have been decided by now. Today, Vivaldi is doing the same thing. Madam Minister, in times when people are having difficulty paying their energy bills and when you know that energy needs will only increase, there is no room for green experiments. What is the government's position on the concerns of the united employers' organizations? Are you going to put the dogmatics aside and finally take the signals seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u46	Madam President, Madam Minister, the desire you had a few months ago to leave nuclear power and therefore to stop the last nuclear reactors in Belgium was already absurd at the time. Today, after hearing from scientists at the University of Antwerp who have indicated how this would have an impact on household bills, on the climate, on our security of supply, this would be frankly irresponsible. This would be all the more irresponsible as employers' federations push the nail by saying that it would also have a serious impact on our economy. This would be all the more irresponsible when we see the threats of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. When I say "threats", it is an euphemism since fighting has been taking place since this morning between the separatists of Donbass and Ukraine. This will inevitably have an impact on the price of gas, the increase of which has already been felt long before this crisis, since we know that the cost of our energy bill is largely due to the way in which the Russians play with the gas tap. Today, reason seems to win four of the seven parties that make up Vivaldi. It is time for reason to win the whole government, including you, Madam Minister of Energy, and for you to see, finally, that this issue must be made a matter of general interest and not an ideological question, and that decisions must be made on the basis of the well-being of Belgians, the climate, the bill, the new geopolitical and geostrategic situation. I am counting on you for reason to occupy more space in this debate and for us to move forward without delay because it is time to know what the energy mix will be tomorrow in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u47	Madam President, Minister, this week, Wednesday, the FEB, the Voka, the Walloon Union and BECI spoke with the same voice about security of supply, price levels and the risks of greenhouse gas proliferation. They spoke because they are in real life. They didn't do politics. So, unlike Mr. De Roover claims, I'm not here to argue or to do a political blow, but to talk about reality. There was a government agreement in December. A date is set: March 18. On March 18, a positioning is to be taken. Until then, a series of information and evaluations must arrive. We've already heard from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. We're waiting for the one on the Vilvoorde gas plant. My questions are simple, without any controversy. Where are we now? What has already been done with respect to this date of March 18, in a month? What answer can be given to the employers' federations that are concerned? What guarantees for security of supply? That's the crux of the question. How will prices be guaranteed for both households and businesses? How are we going to put in place what to guarantee them? Finally, on 18 March, will we take into account the geopolitical context that obviously weighs on our supply of a whole series of questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, the government agreement reaffirms the key step. However, that is not a golden ticket. Security of supply must not be compromised. The impact on prices must be properly assessed. The current government has been working for 16 months and has taken many good measures. More windmills can be built at sea in the future. The CRM, which must attract new capacity, is in progress. The energy standard is a fact and work is under way on reforming the energy bill. Of course, the world hasn't stood still for the past sixteen months either. The energy landscape is in full transition worldwide, including in our neighbouring countries. The Netherlands and France want to extend the life of nuclear power plants and they are planning to build new ones. Unfortunately, the recent geopolitical upheavals have caused our energy bill to go through the roof and some of us are profiting from it. No one could predict that, not the current government, but neither could the previous government. Colleagues, despite all the good measures taken by the current government, there has never been such a great deal of concern for our citizens and businesses. They are concerned about the affordability of their energy bill. They are concerned whether the lamp will continue to burn if all nuclear power stations close. Affordability and security of supply are also the main concerns and concerns for the CD&V. It is therefore just that the CD&V considers it very important that both piste A and piste B are thoroughly investigated. They must be examined without blinders, without taboos and with all the recent data on the table. In March 2022, the government will consider the core exit. Madam Minister, my questions are therefore very simple. Can you confirm that all the slopes will be put on the table, that all the new factors will be taken into account, that there will be a clear answer to the concerns about affordability and (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u49	Madam Minister, I am following the debate with a great deal of interest but also with a great deal of surprise, because I hear a lot of slogans and simplistic arguments in this complex debate. I'd like to stick to the facts. Firstly, energy prices are sky high in countries with and without nuclear power stations. Prices are sky high everywhere. Secondly, keeping the two old nuclear power stations open is not enough to provide a solution to our security of supply. Thirdly, for the loudest callers, the Michel Government has done nothing to keep the nuclear power stations open or shut down. Worse still, she has made deals with the operator who today is ensuring that we cannot touch the mega profits of the nuclear power plants, in order to use them for families who are very hard to cope with because of the high invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u50	Vooruit's position on this matter has not changed. We have always said that there will soon have to be enough electricity and that this flow must be clean and, above all, affordable. If we can be convinced that keeping the two nuclear power stations open helps to afford the invoices, we will find an ally in us. After all, we choose the cheapest option: we choose what families are awake to today, namely a solution for the towering energy bills. They are not awake from the debate on nuclear energy, but from the invoices. Your punitive statements will not change that, Mr Wollants. Madam Minister, the government has already taken a lot of measures to reduce energy prices somewhat. Measures totalling EUR 1.7 billion have already been taken. The VAT on electricity is temporarily reduced to 6%. You know that this could also apply to gas for us, but it is a very important measure. However, I also think it is important that we look at Engie's excess profits. How will we ensure that we can give some of this back to the families?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u51	Madam President, Minister, N-VA has been saying for a very long time that the key step is a very bad idea. That is the position we were originally on our own, but more and more people are now saying that there is a need to rethink it. Citizens, businesses, the MR and now even the presidents of CD&V, Open Vld and Vooruit put the door open, because everyone is concerned about security of supply, sustainability and the cost of the gas plants. You have to admit that the gas plants score a whole lot worse on the environment than the nuclear power plants. No one knows whether the light will stay on, because no one can tell whether your gas plants will be ready in time. In the meantime, Elijah's figures also indicate that we may not be able to obtain two gas plants either. At least as important is that we know that the closure of nuclear power plants will result in hundreds of millions of euros added to the energy bill. Conner Rousseau asked for evidence on the table for that statement. He only has to choose, because every study of the past year indicates that the core exit increases the invoices. That's the truth. I understand that everyone is concerned, especially with high natural gas prices on top of it. The geopolitical situation in Russia only adds uncertainty, which will drive invoices even further. Madam Minister, it is clear that part of the government wants to address that problem. The question is whether I can hear the same thing from the green parties. When it comes to cost, Green says, negligible. When it comes to security of supply, Green says: negligible. When it comes to sustainability, Green says: negligible. That is not the way forward (...) [[microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u52	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all have a great responsibility here. No one, I suppose, wants to turn the Belgian out of electricity. No one, I assume, wants to make the Belgian pay even more for his energy. We all understand the concerns of businesses and citizens. For this reason, the government agreement set out two objectives and rightly so: affordability and security of supply. Sufficiently affordable and sustainable energy is the goal. After 20 years of stagnation, after 20 years of delay, the current government has been hesitant to draw up a plan for this. Support mechanisms for security of supply? Check. Arranged a successful auction? All right. More renewable energy in the North Sea? We're working on it. Several studies today show that the core exit is realistic. For example, Elijah's study says that the core exit will ensure a higher security of supply than is the case in the scenario of the extension of two nuclear power plants. For example, the study of Ghent University says that the impact on the electricity price is minimal. On the contrary, all nuclear power plants are running today and our energy prices are the most expensive ever. Do you ever read those reports, colleagues of the opposition? Are you reading the reports from Elia, from the CREG, from Ghent University? Who is dogmatic when one ignores scientific reports and puts one's own point of view on them? The political choice was made 20 years ago and there is a painful legacy of 20 years' standstill, which is not negative. Since then, the technological evolution of renewable energy has taken off and we need to have confidence in the path to 100% renewable energy. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, security and no adventures were the words I heard yesterday from one of the employers, and that is exactly my answer today. Security and no adventures. That means working thoroughly and systematically. That also means that we consider every element of the context and that we don't do cherrypicking or talk in slogans. Supply security, affordability and sustainability do not benefit from adventures or blanks. The legacy, after 20 years of collective stagnation, which we in the hemisphere are now facing, is particularly painful. Our country has the oldest production park today. We also have the most expensive invoices in Europe because we have not acted for 20 years. It is a legacy, this has been said before in the hemisphere, and those responsible and the parties responsible are here. The peak prices today are not the fault of the core exit, but of 20 years of non-policy and 20 years of standstill. Colleagues, looking at the past does not solve problems, quite the contrary. Looking to the future and taking control of the case really counts. What counts is what is happening today in today's context. Many questions were asked today about the situation between Russia and Ukraine. That situation is not new. Since 2014, tensions at the border have increased. What is the impact on supply? 4 percent of our gas comes from Russia. After all, we are strategic. We have the import port of Zeebrugge and we have pipelines, 18 interconnections. Of the volumes of gas entering our country, we need a third of our own. Therefore, network operator Fluxys ensures that there is no risk of supply. And then there is the aspect of the price. Three quarters of the gas is supplied directly to the end user for heating or for industrial applications. The core exit has no impact on this. No one escapes high prices today, not even those countries that are committed to nuclear energy. Bringing high prices back to the conflict is wrong. It's enough to look across the border. France knows its nuclear horror moment today. We also experienced this in 2018. It was a crisis back then. Today it is also a crisis in France. Twenty percent of the French nuclear park is out, with a direct impact on electricity prices today. Belgium in 2018 and France today, this can only lead to one finding, a finding that we share here, namely that we need to work on a concrete renewal of our energy infrastructure. 40-year-old centrals aren't gonna help us. They won't help us at lower prices and they won't help us for security. This concrete and sustainable renewal of our infrastructure, we have been working on it for a year and there have already been results; as several of you have recognised. It is a route that is followed since October 1st, and this path will take us until March 18th. We made clear agreements on this in December. We're doing it meticulously. The results are also there: there are several companies in our country today ready to invest in energy, to invest in security of supply, to invest in affordability, to invest in sustainability. That's what this is about. I have said before: my policy must be boring and predictable. Why? That's to create peace and security. It is the uncertainty in our own country and the uncertainty abroad that is causing rising prices. Energy policy really doesn't need a show. It's not a game. It's really a serious matter. The conclusion is therefore simple today: the government will decide on 18 March on what will guarantee 100 % of supplies and affordability, not on the basis of an opinion, not on the basis of a Facebook ad and not on the basis of gut feeling, but on the basis of figures, reports and studies. Professionalism is what citizens and businesses expect from us. It's professionalism that they'll get from me and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u54	Madam Minister, it is as ready for everyone as it is to extend the life of the two youngest nuclear power stations. A majority of the Flemings want that. All the big employers' organisations want that. That's what a lot of scientists want. Yet you do your own way and ignore all signals. Even your own coalition partners drop you like a brick and the greens still have the guts to ask for respect. It is time for you to show respect for the will of the people, respect for an affordable energy bill and security of supply in the future. The Fleming has not chosen this policy. You're in people's pockets. You failed. Admit it and sit with ENGIE Electrabel today to keep the nuclear power plants open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u55	Madam Minister, you say you want an energy policy based on boredom and tranquillity. Well, you can't do it! For weeks and months, we've been witnessing tough episodes, we still don't know what the government's policy is, and we've been in uncertainty up to our necks. Since you plead that we should not go on an adventure, you must realize that there must be one before and one after this Ukrainian crisis, this threat of war on Europe's borders. You are still minimizing the share of gas in Belgium's supply, but you know that we are already heavily affected by Russia's energy policy. This must be taken into account for the future. It is important that we benefit from an energy mix that reduces our share of gas supply and that our energy policy helps reduce household bills, taking the climate issue into account. You should be the first on the offensive on this issue. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u56	Minister, you have confirmed the date of March 18, which is the date of the appointed appointment. We know that we need security, a predictable price and energy independence. We expect objective data. Lao-Tseu said the longest path began with the first step. We know the road will be long. You took the first step. If we have to straighten the road a little bit, we'll have to get to it. We know the ultimate goal, but we must confront the realities. This is not an ideology; companies do not do it, because they see the reality. We need to secure them. The meeting is scheduled for 18 March. The government will have to take responsibility for these issues of security, price and energy independence. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u57	Madam Secretary, let me be clear: for CD&V, security of supply and affordability goes hand in hand. That has always been our objective, and that will always be our objective. We, the CD&V, don't flip in there. That is why it is very important for us that both slopes are examined, without dogmas and with open eyes to everything that is happening around us. There are many new elements. Look around us. There are new elements and they need to be taken in both slopes that need to be on the table. If we do not, we cannot make a fair decision. We are aware that every slope has pitfalls. No scenario will be easy. That is why it is so important that they are properly examined in advance. There are no taboos for us, no taboos at all. Nuclear energy will continue to be important in the future, regardless of whether or not we close all power stations. Belgium is a top player in the field of nuclear energy. That top position... (microphone is switched off).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u58	Madam President, I am delighted to see the fierceness with which the debates are taking place. Had the previous government put that ferocity in the energy pact, it would have had time to extend the power stations. You didn't. What did you do? You've made agreements about the owner's excess profits. Mr. Wollants, you're welcome to play numbers here. I'll give you other figures, which also exist. For the Swedish Government, we raised more than half a billion euros from the excess profits. Now that is about 150 million euros. What do you think people think when they read about these profits in the newspaper today, when they get high energy bills sent at home? That is, of course, particularly painful. For Forward, the most important thing in the file is affordability. On this point, we will continue to assess the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u59	Madam Secretary, frankly, you have once again demonstrated how addicted Vivaldi is on the gas crane. You choose to do so in full, making us even more dependent on Russian gas. That's the way you're going. You are filling over an old park of nuclear power stations, but at the same time you pay much older aircraft engines to run in case of emergency. What do you want? The big problem is that every obstacle in the energy sector is solved by you with the core exit, the core exit and, if possible, the core exit, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u60	You also said, Minister, that the concerns of employers and citizens are understandable. Yes, the geopolitical situation is a new argument in the debate, but isn't that just an argument to go fully for the development of renewable energy? We don't need Putin to put solar panels on our roofs. It's not Putin blowing the wind for our windmills. It is Putin who is the supplier of our uranium. Don't we just become dependent on Russia if we leave everything to the point? The challenges in our energy policy are too great to continue turning circles. About the horde of the core trip we've been doing for 20 years. Science and companies want a government that supports them, which gives them perspective and investment security. I call on every group in this half-round to (...) (microphone is turned off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u61	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one taboo here for all groups, it is our dependence on Engie Electrabel. It's Putin's fault, it's our policy's fault, but according to all traditional parties, it's never Engie Electrabel's fault. There's no mention of that. Today one question is asked about the excess profits of Engie Electrabel, 1 question out of 25. It's up to the people to know. You are all afraid, because everyone is waiting for Engie Electrabel: for nuclear energy it is Engie Electrabel and for gas it is Engie Electrabel. Engie Electrabel has everyone in the pocket, and that's why everyone here is silent. That's your dependence on Engie Electrabel. Our study firm has calculated how much extra Engie Electrabel has earned. Our calculation shows that this was EUR 800 million in 2021. It was said that the PVDA study bureau is populist and that these figures are wrong. Engie Electrabel gave the figures two days ago: it gained 1 billion euros from the pocket of the working class and put it in the pocket of Engie Electrabel. And you don't give a damn! We're silent, we're silent, it's outrageous! My question as a PTB-PVDA - the only party that is going to ask the minister today - is this: Madam Minister, will you go look for this billion euros to allow VAT to be reduced from 21% to 6% on people's electricity bills? That's what the people want to know! Everything else is blablablabla!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, energy policy is not a show, and for this kind of show I certainly didn't buy a ticket. Mr Verduyckt has just asked me about the excess profits in the energy sector, because I asked the CREG for an inquiry into this. Mr. Hedebouw, we often meet here. But I am also going to the committee and I can assure you that no committee meeting will be missed or that question will be asked to me. So you shouldn't be playing around here, it's a serious matter. The CREG has mapped out the excess profits in the energy sector. They did that in October and we asked to update it in November. A number of things are already known. For example, our offshore windmills need a lot less resources for support: 177 million euros less in 2022 and 283 million euros less in 2023. The gas plants are making a theoretical profit and I have asked the CREG what that means in practice. And then it gets interesting, the nuclear profits. Yes, during this high-price period, nuclear power plants are making more profit. Only the CREG has designated that number as confidential. I have therefore asked the CREG to review this and to make these figures public. That is also in the public interest. Why? Then we can see how we can react to that. I'm not making empty promises today. It's no good to anyone. To begin with, I asked for the CREG objectification so that we could then work on concrete slopes and on a legal solution (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u63	Madam Secretary, you tell the world that these figures are still classified. Two days ago, however, Engie Electrabel gave those figures in the press. 970 million euros overprofits, it's just in Engie Electrabel's annual report. You said that we will find solutions for the future. So you're saying we're not going to touch today's gains. That's bad. The millions from the pockets of our working class go straight to Electrabel, but politics says we can't do anything about it. That's dependency. Here there is no more power, all the power is simply given to one multinational, who decides everything for us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u64	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 February 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 February 2022, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u66	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michael Freilich, Joy Donné.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u67	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2043/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2043/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u68	Madam President, I have the honour to report to this House on the resolution tabled by Mr Freilich and Mr Donné on combating cyber fraud via money donkeys. This dossier was discussed in the Finance Commission in June 2021, October 2021 and January 2022. Mr Freilich, the petitioner, said that cybercrime experienced exponential growth during the corona crisis. One of the most common forms of online fraud is phishing. In doing so, false e-mails are sent for the purpose of obtaining data, in order to be able to steal money. Sometimes people are fooled in other ways, such as by phone, by texting or by other clever tricks. What all these scams have in common is that they intend to take money from people. In order not to be caught, for example by having the money transferred directly to their own account, the crooks use so-called money mules. These are people who, mostly for a fee, lend their bank account and/or bank card and PIN code. Money donkeys often come from vulnerable groups facing financial problems. It is also sometimes a question of students. The big problem with this financial construction is that often only the donkey can be caught and condemned as the only one. In particular, this proposal for a resolution seeks to establish a legal framework allowing financial institutions to exchange information on suspicious accounts and transactions in case of suspected money laundering, so as to facilitate the winding-up of a possible criminal network. I would like to review the reactions of my fellow Members to this. Mr Dieter Vanbesien of Ecolo-Groen felt that the present motion for a resolution raises an important problem. Mr Leysen van Open Vld supported the fact that an initiative is being taken to combat the practice of donkeys. I myself stressed on behalf of the Flemish Interest that the issue of cyber fraud is obviously an important issue and that tackling this cyber fraud should be a top political priority. Mr Piedboeuf of the MR joined the colleagues who underlined the importance of the problem of cyber fraud and money donkeys. Mr Marco Van Hees of the PVDA-PTB also considered it important to promote the exchange of data with administrative bodies, such as the Financial Information Processing Cell and the legal authorities. Mr Steven Matheï of CD&V underlined the importance of the motion for a resolution in the fight against fraud. Mr Matz of the CDH welcomed the proposal for a resolution. Mr Ahmed Laaouej of the PS thought it was an interesting proposal. The committee also asked for various opinions. They were discussed at the meeting of October 2021. The author, Mr Freilich, referred to a number of opinions. He noted that the National Bank had been won for this proposal. The CFI also supported the requests in its opinion. The College of Attorneys-General also expressed an opinion, as did Febelfin and the Minister of Finance. Mr Freilich concluded that most of the opinions were very positive about the present proposal for a resolution. The speaker then tabled a number of amendments to improve and refine the proposal for a resolution. I myself took note, on behalf of the Flemish Interest Group, of Mr Freilich's in-depth presentation and of the positive opinions. In addition, amendments have been tabled for improvement. The Flemish Interest has therefore supported the request for a vote. Our group then announced that it would adopt this motion for a resolution. In January 2022, the Flemish Interest underlined the continued support of our group for this proposal. We have also pointed out that the people who are being used as donkeys are often young people and vulnerable people and that it is necessary to develop clear measures to combat this phenomenon, as requested in this motion for a resolution. This ultimately led to the unanimous adoption of the whole proposal in the Committee on Finance and the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been summarised very well today. Nevertheless, I will try to frame this once again. What's it about? One can't open a newspaper or watch a TV newsreel, or there's a message about a cyber attack. The phishing problem is getting bigger and bigger. Last week we learned from the BIPT and the CCB that hundreds of thousands of so-called robocalls are being sent out. In addition, one receives a telephone that refers the listener to a call centre abroad that asks all kinds of questions to get data. Which one of you has never received a text message asking for an amount to be paid to the FPS Finance for an outstanding debt? Who hasn't gotten a text from the mail or customs that a package has arrived? Unfortunately, there are also cases of SMS-phishing or smishing every day. The number of victims is also increasing exponentially. We need to do something about that. For this reason, I am pleased to be able to discuss a motion for a resolution in this House today and to approve it later. I have tried to understand where the problems lie, what mechanisms lie behind them and how we can do something about them. One of the reasons why the problem cannot be solved is that banks that suspect that a particular account is used by money mules or money donkeys, the people behind it, cannot share their information. What's a money donkey? Who's a money donkey? The criminals are smart enough not to take money directly from victims through their own bank account number or steal them, because that way they can quickly find out who is behind it. So what do the criminals do? They look for people who can easily exploit them, young people, the socially weaker, and promise them a deal whereby they get a commission in exchange for any payment made through their account for their supposed new business. Or they say they don't have a bank account number for the time being, because it takes them a while to open an account, and ask them to borrow the bank account number for a month. 1,000 euros will be paid for if the bank card can be borrowed for a while. Unfortunately, we see that a lot of young people are susceptible to this, or also people who have fallen short or are on drugs. The tragedy of the money donkey system is that there are two victims, first and foremost the victims who have lost their money, but also the money donkey itself, which is very often caught. After all, it's not hard to find out who's behind it. Then the drama begins for the money donkey and his family. Parents state that they did not know that their son or daughter, aged 15 or 16, was doing so at all. The younger one suddenly realizes what happened, what he's been working on. The criminals themselves are out of the question. They use the money donkeys' account. Someone put money in there after he was promised all sorts of things. The donkey no longer controls his account, as the criminal has the bank card. The criminal takes the money directly from the ATM or sneaks the money abroad very quickly. With Febelfin, we discussed how to tackle this phenomenon. If a bank account is suspected to be used by a donkey, other banks should also be informed. If payments are still due from the money donkey's account, then those amounts should not be passed on, as it cannot be guaranteed that the money will not be wasted quickly. The strict GDPR guidelines do not allow information to be shared with other banks, because then the banks risk prosecution. However, there is an early risk warning system in the Netherlands. Why can't it be there and not here? That is why one of the most important questions in the motion for a resolution concerns the development of a legal framework for such a system. The twelve opinions requested were unanimously positive. I quote from the opinion of Febelfin: "Febelfin has been a party asking for years for the development of a risk warning system. Such a scheme is an essential support for the successful fight against cyber fraud." We hear the same noise from the National Bank of Belgium: "As a result, the bank is in principle in favour of a framework in which financial institutions can exchange fraud-related information with each other, with the aim of reducing cyber fraud and, in particular, phishing and the phenomenon of money mules." The National Bank is therefore also aware that it is not always possible to hide behind the very large umbrella of the GDPR and its privacy. The Minister for Finance was also positive. On the first point, working with other countries and exchanging best practices, I read: "The Minister agrees that examples of good practice from abroad can serve as inspiration for further action in Belgium." On the second point, it says: 'The Minister sees added value in it'. The third point on the development of the framework is: "The Minister can therefore agree to examine the desirability and feasibility of creating such a framework that allows financial institutions to share information among themselves. We have had to wait a little longer for the advice of the Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne. I quote: "It is clear that our security services must adapt to the fact that crime moves from the physical world to the virtual world. One of the measures we envisage is to develop the legal framework that allows institutions to exchange certain information with each other, including on well-known money mules." In general, I see broad support, both from the ministers and from the requested advisers, for this to be addressed. A resolution in Parliament is a request to the government to take this seriously, to do something about it, not to delay it, not to delay it. Hopefully the Minister will follow us. There is a positive opinion on the idea. Now Parliament can send an important signal by saying that they support this. There are a number of issues in which Parliament can work together. It doesn't happen that often and this is one of these exceptions. I am therefore very honoured and pleased that colleagues support this. We can work together once in a while. This resolution was unanimously supported in committee. At this time of political polarization, that is special. This is an important signal to the population that these kinds of problems are important to all of us. We all want to be able to handle it. We want to show that we have heard the people who are victims of phishing and cyber fraud. We are doing this today by saying again unanimously what needs to be done. We want to show that we do not leave the young and the vulnerable who are the victims of the criminals in the cold either. We will also support and help those people. This is a resolution. In the future, we will hopefully be able to adopt legislative proposals across party boundaries, specifically on the issue of cyber fraud. There's a bill coming up on the IBAN name check. There too, I see a lot of support. The IBAN name check is a next step. When you transfer money from an account to another account, but you write a name on it, you never know for sure who's behind it. Abroad, such an IBAN name check is a very easy and efficient means of combating fraud. In Britain, there is 80% less fraud and 84% in the Netherlands. If you want to make a transfer to someone and the account number does not correspond to the name, you get a warning. That's the next step coming. I hope that today's positive step, in which Parliament unanimously wants to limit cyber fraud, will also be possible in the future. There are ideological differences between the right and the left on a number of issues. I understand that we all have to play our part there, but sometimes we can all come together. That's what we're doing today. This will make the citizen better, but in fact it will also improve politics. For example, politics shows to everyone that there can be cooperation on important issues. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u70	Madam President, I will be brief since everything has already been said. The motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues is a good proposal. In fact, we defended her. Indeed, the phenomenon of banking mules is an exponential phenomenon that puts many people in difficulty. I am thinking in particular of those who are financially weaker or who are not sufficiently aware of the risks they are taking. Measures have been taken in the Netherlands, which is our neighbouring country. It is important to draw on good practice. The motion for a resolution is intended to encourage the government to follow these good practices and to develop safety in relation to this risk to a smaller population. We will therefore support this motion for a resolution, which was adopted unanimously in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u71	Madam President, this resolution has the merit of highlighting the current problems of donkeys. The fact that people, often unintentionally, are involved in a criminal chain, naturally forms part of an exponential growth of cybercrime in recent months and years. The focus of the resolution before us is therefore on the money donkeys, which act as intermediaries. The CD&V supports the approach against the abuse of donkeys and also supports any initiative to raise awareness of the issue. That is exactly what the resolution before us is doing. It calls for a structural approach. She wants to learn from practices abroad and see if any legislative initiatives are desirable, as the National Bank of Belgium indicated in the opinion. I would like to add two points of interest. A first point is that we must be careful when we take initiatives, so as not to create and create new parallel structures. Above all, we must make use of the possibilities we already have. For example, since last summer, on the initiative of the Minister of Finance, a consultation platform has been set up for cooperation in the fight against money laundering, in which all partners, namely Febelfin, the insurance sector, the CFI, the FSMA and the National Bank of Belgium, work together to combat money laundering and play briefly on the ball. A second point I would like to add is that our party calls for attention to Internet fraud in general. Friendship fraud, for example, goes a little further, but is also part of cybercrime. Mrs Leen Dierick has already questioned the relevant ministers on several occasions. We also have a resolution on Internet fraud in general, which we hope will be able to deal with and systematically approve in the Chamber in the coming weeks. However, we fully support the resolution before us and the current initiative. We shall vote in favour of them later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u72	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u73	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u74	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Robby De Caluwe, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporter, Mrs Gijbels, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has a serious history. Much has already changed, it has also been reduced after the hearings and the thorough committee work. We will support Mr De Caluwe's proposal. We would like to emphasise that our country is a precursor in the areas of health care and biotechnological and pharmaceutical innovation. We wish it would remain that way. Research and development are very important, especially in the Flemish pharma valley, where thousands of people are employed. Better functioning of biobanks and a more flexible legal regime for artificial and extracted material should ensure that this R&D is ready for the future and for even more innovation in our regions. Our group supports the proposal to further support developments in this innovative world. Initially, the proposal also included a dotation for the umbrella organisation of rare diseases. That's been taken out in the meantime. We are now on the eve of the week of rare diseases. It is therefore important that this law be adopted because clinical research is extremely important to accompany innovation around rare diseases. Although we believe that the government has not yet taken the necessary steps in the field of rare diseases and that flexibility in access to medicines for rare diseases has not yet been addressed by the government, we consider it very important, and a little symbolic, that we are now adopting this legislative proposal which will facilitate research. This bill will also lay down the major importance of medical devices and their evaluation for the future. We have seen in the corona crisis that medical devices are extremely important. That was, of course, already known in the scientific world, but we have all been pushed with the noses on the facts. The entire legislation on medical devices must be implemented correctly. This bill will ensure that a new Advisory Council is set up within the FAGG. Colleagues, we will also support that. However, I would like to make the point that we have often made in the Committee on Health. Before enriching a particular organisation or thickening it with new advisory councils, it is important that it works optimally. If that is not the case, an audit must be carried out. That has not been done here for the time being, so I would like to call on the government to make sure that it does so. As far as human body material is concerned, the current regime is divided into a basic regime and into a lighter regime that can be used for research and development. In the hearings, the actors in the field stressed the need to make the basic regime lighter and more manageable, especially when genetic tracing can no longer be carried out. What is also included in the bill is the link with the medical guidance for reproduction and use of embryos and gametes. Here too, an adaptation to social evolution is taken into account, namely a number of uncertainties and interpretations concerning families who wish or have to do medically assisted reproduction, so that they do not experience any problems. So that too is an adaptation to the future. With the legislative proposal, therefore, we want to look to the future and, as has been said, we support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us has indeed come a long way. A hearing was held and several opinions were requested. Fortunately, because in the end a lot of work was done on the proposal through amendments by the majority. Unfortunately, our amendments were not adopted. However, that would only have benefited the document. The legislative proposal providing for various provisions in favour of patients on access to health data and representation, on medical devices and on human body material and embryos and gametes became the legislative proposal laying down provisions on human body material and embryos and gametes. Certain points raised in committee have indeed been remedied by the majority amendments, in line with the comments of the Council of State. I would like to use my speaking time to explain the amendments of the Flemish Interest, which we are retabled to table. With our first amendment, we want to supplement Chapter 2, Article 2.5 with the words 'with the exception of embryos produced or cultivated outside the human body'. According to Article 2, 1 of the Law of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for the purpose of medical application to humans or scientific research, embryos are covered by the definition of human body material. For example, in the context of medically assisted reproduction, embryos are also produced outside the human body, becoming in vitro. Since this has ethical consequences, we wish to exclude embryos produced or grown in vitro from this application. That was our first amendment. With our second amendment, we want to delete Chapter 2, Article 3, last paragraph. I have just spoken about the ethical implications, and I would like to point out here that such legislation must not overlook the ethical issue. When we talk about embryos, we talk about human life. This cannot and cannot be used lightly. Leaving the extension to other types of human body material to the King, in other words to the government, seems to us first of all to be an undefined extension. After all, it does not say exactly what this enlargement means. Secondly, it is incomprehensible that Parliament should be excluded from such important decisions. Such ethical issues should at least be subject to a serious debate in Parliament. With our amendment, we want to build in the certainty of a parliamentary debate, prior to any enlargement. Our third amendment would like to add a new second paragraph to Chapter 2, Article 16. According to the draft law, research projects with artificial or extracted material should no longer be approved by an ethics committee. However, the project must be submitted to an ethical committee. If the Committee does not object within 28 days, the investigation may be initiated. The submission of each research project to an ethics committee is essential to ensure minimal social control of research projects with artificial or extracted material. That is why we believe that the non-submission of a research project should be punishable, as is already the case in the case of the failure to submit a research project containing non-artificial or non-extracted human body material. The fact that the artificial human body material is no longer bound to a biobank does not seem to us to be a good idea either. After all, there is an ethical committee attached to a biobank, which must be consulted. This proposal allows the artificial human body material to be obtained from a body other than a biobank, for example a company. Furthermore, the draft law provides that Article 8 § 2 of the Human Body Material Act does not apply to research involving artificial material. This means, among other things, that the artificial material should no longer be transferred to a biobank. When the artificial material can be stored by any private laboratory and therefore no longer by a biobank, the question arises as to which ethics committee the proposed scientific research project will have to be submitted to. Apart from the question of which ethics committee to submit the research project, there is a real risk that the research project will no longer be submitted to any ethics committee. After all, if the artificial material can be obtained from a private company and no longer has to be kept at a biobank, no one knows who owns which artificial material. Hence the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will approve the amendment here. I'll give you another thought. When it comes to human life and therefore sensitive ethical issues, let us bear in mind that not everything that is technically possible is also morally desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our country has a unique ecosystem for research and development, involving hospitals, scientific institutions and pharmaceutical and biotech companies. We are at the top of Europe in terms of investment in research and development and third place in the field of clinical trials. If we want to maintain that lead position, we must keep our regulations attractive for conducting clinical research and have a flexible but correct regime for the use of human body material. Human body material is the work material in scientific research to better understand the functioning of the human body, disorders and the functioning of medicines. The field of work indicated that the current regime was no longer workable in terms of the exchange and registration of different steel body material. The definition of human body material was so broad that any derivative and any sample extracted from human body material fell within the scope of the Human Body Material Act. This not only made access to certain commercial stem cell lines more difficult, it also caused a huge administrative burden for biobanks. In other words, the current legislation prevented a smooth exchange of samples, even if the investigation did not directly concern man. The purpose of the legislative proposal is therefore to remedy this by establishing a lighter legislative regime for artificialised and extracted material intended for scientific research without medical or other application to humans and without prejudice to the protection of the fundamental rights of donors. Artificialized material is produced outside the human body, based on human body material taken from a donor. Extracted material is extracted from cells or tissues, which however no longer consists of those cells. In both cases it is a human intervention in a laboratory, of the kind that there are still few links to the original material. In artificialised material, cell lines and cell cultures have undergone such a change that they no longer consist of the original body material removed from the donor. In the case of extracted material, the human body material is reduced by processing to one of its basic components. The lighter regime applies only in so far as it is not used for genetic research. In research on genetic material, information may still be found relevant to the health status of the donor. Let me outline the most important changes made by this bill. Firstly, the type of material should not be obtained or stored in a biobank. It can be stored and used by the investigator himself. Secondly, a research project can start if the competent ethics committee has not raised any objections within 28 days. Because we provide for a notification to the competent ethics committee, the government remains informed about the existing research projects and we monitor the ethical content of the ongoing research projects. I believe that one of the amendments tabled is therefore not necessary, because we are already responding to that. If it is not submitted to the ethics committee, then it is in fact a violation. The donor's consent is not necessary for the use of artificial or extracted material, but of course remains necessary for the initial removal of human material. Finally, the proposal contains a provision which makes it possible for a lesbian couple to have a new reduction in gametes with the second wish parent, even though there were already reductions in the first wish parent. It is also clarified that new reductions in gametes are possible with that wishing parent whose embryos do not meet the required health standards on the basis of a previous decrease in their own gametes or are justified for medical reasons. Indeed, as Mrs Depoorter said, thorough work has been done on the drafting of this bill. A hearing was organised and opinions were requested from among others the GBA and the Council of State. A number of provisions were also deleted because some provisions were already included in the law on various provisions adopted at the end of December. I am thinking, for example, of the financing of RaDiOrg. A number of amendments also reflected the comments of the Council of State, which improved the quality of the text. I would like to thank the colleagues of the committee for their support for this proposal. I hope we can approve of this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u80	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (112/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (112/11) The title has been amended by the Commission in "Proposal for a law laying down provisions with regard to human body material and embryos and gametes". The title was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal laying down provisions on human body material and embryo-implantation and gametes." The bill has 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u81	• 31 - Dominic Sneppe cs (112/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Laaouej, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u84	Madam President, I can imagine that the rapporteur, Mr Laaouej, refers to the written report, because he has not seen half the work in committee. He left the Chamber during the committee meeting, screaming and roaring, in an unseen manner that is completely contrary to the collegiate and correct way of working together in the finance committee. It was different that day. And the reason for that whole circus was the fact that an amendment of the Flemish Interest was adopted almost unanimously. After reading the draft law, the Flemish Interest submitted a number of technical amendments to remove errors from the text. My amendments were also approved by the Minister. Let me read out from the report: 'Finally, the Deputy Prime Minister notes that a number of amendments have been tabled. He would like to thank the author for his interest in the text. The Deputy Prime Minister agrees." The Minister was therefore intellectually honest and was correct in saying that our amendments were correct and had to be approved. As a result, our first amendment was adopted effectively. Did that break the cordon's sanitary system? Asking the question is answering them. In particular, we would like to thank Mrs Cécile Cornet of Ecolo-Green for her support for our amendment and for having maintained it. That cannot be said of all the other colleagues in the committee. There's been an amazing spectacle going on for almost an hour. The session was suspended and another important draft legislation on excise duties was removed from the agenda and will not be dealt with until next week. That is because Mr Laaouej of the PS mordicus refused to vote on an amendment from us. But he demanded from the other majority parties that they adopt the same attitude. Even in a technical draft law, such as this on customs, the system parties choose to play political games. Backboneless if that party is, the Open Vld has bowed to the dictates of the PS and Mr Leysen has dared simply to transfer my amendments with the loose wrist, in order to finally present them under his own name as his own amendments. Mr Leysen even dared to say that the word bpost should be written as b.post. We had to take his word for it. After all, he had once been a member of the board of directors of bpost. He thought he remembered that bpost was once written as b.post. Madam President, it wasn't supposed to get any crazier in the Finance Committee. It's actually worse than a kindergarten class. An additional detail is that in the meantime one amendment of the Flemish Interest was adopted and that Mrs Cornet asked for the floor about an hour after the vote and dared to ask whether her voting behaviour could not be changed. She literally asked the President if he could falsify and amend the report of the session. Of course, Mrs Marghem has been correct and has not changed the vote retroactively. It is clear, however, that those Members here in Parliament who talk about tolerance and respect are, in the end, those who are the most unbearable and disrespectful in practice. Apparently, the members of the Finance Committee have forgotten that, for example, during the budget negotiations, which are also the subject of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, we helped to support the care staff fund. That fund finally came with the support of the Flemish Interest. On the right, the Open Vld seems to have forgotten that the reconstruction reserve finally came with the support of the Flemish Interest. We have repeatedly been constructive towards all parties without distinction. We are not looking at the author but at the content. It must be said that the situation was extremely disrespectful. It was a sad spectacle. Mr Piedboeuf was intellectually the most honest of the French-speaking members. He stated that by abolishing the two-chamber system, the quality of draft laws is deteriorating and that anyone who cooperates in improving quality receives the support of the MR. The MR therefore looks at the technicality and content and not at the author. Madam President, the Flemish interest will support this bill, which will benefit customs and customs staff. This bill, as amended by the Flemish Interest, will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u85	I would nevertheless like to supplement and correct what you are saying, Mr Vermeersch. Things are very clear as far as I'm concerned. The vote I cast in committee was a mistake, and I accept it. I was wrong, and I wanted to change my vote. You said an hour later; it wasn't an hour. If you remember correctly, there was a lot of flouting with the Zoom meeting; the sitting was then interrupted for a few minutes and, at the time the sitting resumed, I asked for a change of vote. This is sometimes done out of courtesy in other committees, but it was not possible at that time. You're talking about a little game, but it's not a little game at all, it's a principle. There was never a question of supporting anything from the Vlaams Belang. We have nothing in common, as my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre pointed out. Our vision of society is different, our values are different, we do not vote for the proposals of Vlaams Belang. Everything is against us, it has always been true and that remains true.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u86	Mrs Cornet, it is literally stated in the report that my amendment, the amendment of the Flemish Interest, was adopted by 10 votes to 2, from Mr Laaouej and the other PS colleague. According to the report, you accepted the amendment, which is indisputable. You did not take the floor until later, after several suspensions, just before we started discussing the other draft law, just before Mr Vanden Burre asked to amend the report because you wanted to change your voting behaviour. Mrs Cornet, I know that may be painful for you, but I would once again like to thank you for your support for our amendment, because, at the request of the Minister and the other colleagues, you have been involved in technical matters. Or are you going to claim that the technicality, the improvement of legislation, is subordinate to political games? What you are doing now is playing political games that do not benefit the quality of parliamentary work. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u87	I explained to you how that happened. You can say the opposite, but what you say is not in line with reality. It's not a political game and I didn't ask to change my vote hours later, it's absolutely wrong. I explained to you that this was a mistake and I'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u88	Madam President, I can only refer to the report, which correctly reflects the situation at the time of the vote. Mrs Cornet has supported the amendment of the Flemish Interest. That's very painful for her. I regret that she is so excited about that. Nevertheless, I would like to thank her for her support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u89	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u90	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2410/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2410/4) The title in French has been amended by the commission in "Bill adapting the General Law on Customs and Excise to the Customs Code of the Union and laying down various provisions". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Bill adapting the General Law on Customs and Excise to the Customs Code of the Union and laying down various provisions". The bill has 207 sections. The draft law has 207 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u92	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Katja Gabriels, Egbert Lachaert, Goedele Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Segers, who refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (270/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (270/5) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the former Civil Code with regard to the interruption of the statute of limitations". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the old Civil Code as regards the interruption of the limitation period." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur is Mr Anseuw. He shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u97	Madam President, with regard to this text, I wanted to highlight a number of elements. The first is that prostitution is not an offence in Belgium, but it is prohibited under an employment contract. This creates uncertainty for those who engage in prostitution under a contract of employment. This exists and causes a lot of insecurity for these people. A contract of employment gives guarantees. This gives rights such as, for example, access to replacement allowances, terms of notice, but also the guarantee of payment of a salary simply. There is therefore a protection resulting from this contract of employment. This protection is important and you know that for environmentalists, the protection of every worker is important. I therefore fully share and we, as environmentalists, fully share the Minister's objective of providing greater protection and safety for these workers. We are not alone in saying this because the Samilia Foundation, which fights against trafficking in human beings, said, in the course of the hearings in court by a member of its board of directors, "that article 14 should be extended to include activities in the field of prostitution in order to prevent operators from taking advantage of the lack of protection of prostitutes and refusing to pay them - this is what happens - knowing that if they take legal action, they will never get their wages". In the face of this precariousness and difficulty for some people who engage in prostitution under a contract of employment, we fully support this text. As a result, does the employment contract for prostitution become lawful? No. On the other hand, it confers rights and guarantees them, so that people can enjoy all the protection as any worker. One element that I would like to stress is that, for environmentalists, it is really important to have a complete and concerted and much more comprehensive reflection on the status of prostitutes. This text is in the right direction and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u98	Madam President, it is true that this project represents a significant step forward in the protection of sex workers in the field of social security. They will now be protected against the argument of nullity of the contract of employment which the employer or third parties might put against them. I stress here that this is just one of the steps in the construction of the government's table to improve the living and working conditions of prostitutes. Many other aspects need to be taken into account in the areas of justice, taxation and policing. My group is also attentive to the work of your colleagues at the federal level but also in the federated entities. In the area of labour, the Council on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women recommends, in particular, the strengthening of social inspection in areas where prostitution activities are hidden. I will, of course, remain attentive to this issue in the coming months when it comes to combating social fraud or occupational health and safety. Mr Minister, for my group, precariousness is a basis for prostitution, not the other way around. That is why protecting and improving the living and working conditions of prostitutes is a priority for us. It is essential to move forward in a spirit of accompaniment and strengthening of rights, for which consultation with actors on the ground is essential. We therefore look forward to further work by the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government had announced in its declaration that it would take measures to decriminalise the position of sex workers and to work to improve their living and working conditions. This draft law is a first step, because it is really the minimum minimorum that is put into legislation here. Both the employer and third parties will no longer be able to rely on the nullity of the contract and will therefore have to fulfil their contractual obligations. Of course, our group will support this. As has already been said in committee, there are a number of critical remarks to be made in this draft law. The fight against sexual exploitation must remain a priority, that goes without saying. We must not forget that this sector is still too often part of networks of illegal trafficking in human beings, exploitation and money laundering. This group of victims is probably much larger than those who can now carry on and carry on their activities illegally. The actual victims are not helped by this bill. These are poignant situations where, let us be honest, inspection and control services are powerless. Part of this problem could be solved, for example, by means of a database with the numbering of registered sex workers so that undeclared work would be perfectly verifiable. Pimping and taking the abnormal advantage of another person's prostitution remains, logically, punishable. But what's abnormal? It is an inedible term and therefore a blow in the water because it is not enforceable. The border between pimping and employer is also very vaguely defined. Unclearness, however, is usually not a good basis for making good legislation, because control is virtually impossible. An official status of sex worker would mean added value and the sector is also a requesting party to this. As I said before, this is just an incentive to do something to improve the living and working conditions of sex workers. It is clear to us that more attention must be paid to these people who are sometimes at work in very precarious circumstances. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group also supports this bill. There are indeed sex workers who do it voluntarily, but there are many more who are victims of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. If such cases are discovered, crooked pimps are now asking for an annulment of the employment contract, which means that they escape all responsibility. A further problem is that these sex workers will not be able to rely in any way on social protection, while they are just victims and should be able to count on a strong government supporting them. This is, of course, only a first step. The work on decriminalisation of sex work, although separate from it, will soon be completed in the Chamber. I would particularly like to take this opportunity to call once again for the implementation of the recommendations of the Equal Opportunities Council for Men and Women, which states that additional social inspections should also be carried out, especially in those sectors where undeclared work is widespread or where this work is a cover for prostitution or trafficking in human beings. This is an important recommendation which we must also take into account in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u101	Mr Minister, we have already had an opportunity through the committee to discuss this text and its importance. We have stressed here the importance of coming with this provision, which goes, of course, in the totally desired direction. We tabled it, in the same terms, in the Sexual Penal Code, in an attempt to move the matter forward, since, at the same time, important work is being done in the Sexual Penal Code on prostitution. I would like to repeat to you all the support we want to give to the bill that you are introducing and that, as you are aware, we have discussed it, is part of the way, a small part of the way on which we will have to go much further, particularly with regard to the status of self-employed. This is in fact the employment contract and the impeccability of the nullity of this employment contract, which is important since, in many respects, abusers generally do not have much scruples at present to invoke the nullity of the contract in order to get rid of the social obligations to which they are normally obliged. I told you, I think we'll have to go further. We have again tabled the amendment which we tabled in committee, which provides that for the status of self-employed, we can take a step further. Often, sex workers are under an independent forgery contract. In addition, the benefit of social security must be extended to these false self-employed persons and to these sex workers. There are other categories that are already provided for in a royal decree, which are false independents identified as such, and we would have liked, through this amendment, that sex workers could also, for greater social protection of course, be included in this category. You said that you were not opposed to the principle but that the adoption of this type of provision might be premature. Without pre-empting the debates that we will not fail to have after the Carnival holidays on the draft sexual penal code since the vote on it is scheduled in committee next Tuesday, I would like to remind the majority that, with regard to the prostitution aspect and the demand of part of the sector to have a status, the right weapon is not used to respond to these demands. Moreover, with the amendment and the upheaval of the Penal Code, the whole system is being weakened for all workers. Some of the stakeholders work on a voluntary basis and need status. Through your text, we put our finger on the reform. But, as has often been repeated in committee, the disruption of the rules governing the prostitution sector helps to weaken the whole system by suggesting that we decriminalize while the activities that revolve around prostitution must be penalized and, of course, not voluntary prostitution. Several speakers, including the College of Public Prosecutors, pointed out that with the reform of the Penal Code, which was supposedly aimed at giving these workers a status, although everyone was well aware of the fact that a status was not granted by changing the Penal Code, a whole system was being weakened and there was a risk that those who exploited and abused might not be able to be prosecuted. According to part of the voluntary sector, 80 to 85 per cent of those who engage in prostitution do not work on a voluntary basis. But this is another debate, even if I anticipate it somewhat, my aim being to try to establish links between the various texts proposed by the government. Your text, Mr Minister, is in the right direction, although, as has been pointed out in our amendment, we would have liked it to go a step further. But by disrupting the entire system of combating trafficking in human beings, as well as exploitation of prostitution, the path taken is not the right one. It is in particular you who have the key in the field of social law, labour law, and it is these themes that need to be changed to give a real status to sex workers who, on a voluntary basis, wish to be included in this approach. The covid crisis has all revealed the fragility and precariousness to which they could be subjected, particularly at the level of rights such as economic unemployment, bridge law, a series of aids that the government has granted to different sectors. They could not benefit from it because there was always an artistic blur on how they were qualified. This is in the right direction. On the other hand, and we will have the opportunity to discuss it again at the end of the Carnival holidays, we do not go in the right way by amending the Penal Code and risking making people who are victims of trafficking or networks even more fragile. We thank you for bringing this case almost at the same time as the Sexual Penal Code. We are convinced that you will present in the weeks or months that come something much more complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u102	Madam Chair, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for this bill. He put an end to a situation that placed prostitutes in an impossible situation. Their employment contract could be null and void, causing them to become even more precarious and insecure. This situation was totally unfair, especially when it is known that prostitutes are very often confronted with unworthy working conditions: unsafe working conditions, exorbitant rents, ridiculous wages or ubiquitous and permanent insecurity. I refer to cases of assault, threats or racket situations. In doing so, I am particularly pleased that with this bill, these potential nullities will no longer be effective against them. However, I have to focus on two points. Firstly, and this has just been recalled by my colleague Vanessa Matz, this bill is distinct from the major reform that has been undertaken in the Justice Committee to reform the Sexual Penal Code. I stress this because both pimping and prostitution are currently considered criminal offences, so that after the reform, prostitution should be decriminalized while pimping would remain criminalized. There is much to bet that the employment contracts of the people who prostitute themselves will continue to send back to the Horeca, massage parlors or dance performances, and I pass it. In other words, the aim of this project is to enable sex workers to assert their rights, particularly in court, arising from their employment contract. While there is now little case law dealing with this issue, it is perfectly understandable that, first of all, the absolute nullity of the employment contract makes the court incompetent, but also and above all, that sex workers, who are aware of this risk, rarely dare to initiate legal proceedings. A question therefore arises today as to the possible partial requalification of this mixed employment contract by the judge, since pimping remains, rightly, a criminal offence. Mr Minister, here is my question: Is there not a risk that this requalification will de facto tend to treat the employment relationship as a pimp and ultimately make it illegal? This would pose a risk of legal insecurity for those who engage in prostitution. The second aspect I have to point out is the more comprehensive reform of sex workers – a reform that they have been waiting for for years. As Mrs Thémont rightly pointed out, this text is a very positive first step. I must regret, however, that this salutary stage, although timid, is not part of a broader understanding of the status of those who engage in prostitution. In this regard, Mr. Minister, you assured the committee that the consultation was under way with associations and actors on the ground. At the same time, the Minister of Justice, for his part, promised the organizations representing sex workers to achieve a real status for those who engage in prostitution. This was presented as an indispensable complement to this major reform of the Sexual Penal Code. Therefore, while my group obviously shares this objective – and it has been for a very long time, as evidenced by the many bills that we have tabled under various legislatures – we do not understand why the whole reform is not included in a single text. In our view, this is a missed opportunity that will have to be seized again – and as soon as possible, of course. In conclusion, despite the absence of this broader reform that you will have to undertake, Minister, we will support this project because it represents a step forward in the working and living conditions of all these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u103	Madam President, I thank those who have spoken in favour of this text, which certainly represents a step forward, but above all the correction of a legal injustice that actually arises from our right. This also allows for a request to the long-standing legislator, whether by legal professionals (lawyers, magistrates, labour auditors) or by associations representing sex workers, which urgently asked us to put an end to this injustice and to ensure that the nullity of the employment contract concluded in the context of a prostitution relationship can no longer be opposed to sex workers so that they can assert their rights in a fair and equitable manner before a court or in their relations with social security institutions. It's essential. It was urgent and we should have done it for many years. I look forward to being able to introduce and defend this bill. The will was to move forward quickly by correcting this injustice to ensure that those who are confronted with the public order nullity of their contract, whatever its qualification (horeca, hostess, steward, waiter, masseur), could assert it before a court or in their relations with a public institution. It was important to be able to move forward quickly, to correct this injustice, regardless of the debates that are taking place in the Justice Committee – this societal debate took time, you took it and you will still take it in the coming weeks – and regardless of a more comprehensive reform and the establishment of a real status for sex workers, a status that I want to tackle. It was important to be able to move ahead with the correction of this legal injustice that remained in our law. It's a first step. I'm saying it in front of you. This first step is part of a more ambitious, more comprehensive work aimed at really being able to confer status on those who choose this prostitution activity, with the will to protect them and to cover them in a range of aspects of the employment relationship and their social status. The commitment I am making to you today, thanking you for your support for this bill, is to be able to extend and deepen the work on creating a real status for sex workers. Mrs Rohonyi, I do not think that a requalification is possible. Indeed, what is proposed here is that the nullity of the contract in respect of sex workers cannot be enforced so that they can effectively assert their rights against their employer or ex-employer and against public institutions, particularly social security institutions. I repeat, this is a first step and I am committed to continuing the work, particularly in the context and in connection with your work in the Committee on Justice in relation to the reform of the Sexual Penal Code. I did not want to foreshadow the results of your Parliament's work. Many hearings and exchanges have already taken place in committee. Nevertheless, it was important for me to move ahead in advance on this aspect, which was, I would remind you, a long-standing demand from the field and the specialists in the field, making a commitment to you to continue the work on a more comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the status of sex workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2385/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2385/4) The bill has 8 articles. The draft law contains 8 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u107	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Florence Reuter, Jean-Marc Delizée, Cécile Cornet, Nahima Lanjri, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u108	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Wim Van der Donckt and Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy. They refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text is a response to a disaster experienced this summer and which has also affected the self-employed in their activities. Of course, I'm talking about the floods. The independents were hit with full whips with a magnitude that no one expected. Given the magnitude of this problem, there is a response that responds to a need in an appropriate, proportionate and legally sound manner. First, there was a quick response with a circular. Here, there is much more legal certainty in a law to give access to a bridge right to the self-employed who have been hit by the floods. Secondly, it responds to a very special situation, i.e. related to floods. In the face of this very particular situation, there is a very special response. The evidence is that these months of bridge law do not count in the maximum total to which the independents are entitled in terms of bridge law. A third interesting element of this text is that it concerns all self-employed persons, including assisting spouses, caregivers, those who are principal or complementary, those who are independent students, sometimes with conditions for those who are not principal. But it is also noted that the conditions have been accompanied by flexibility for starters, which is really an important element in favour of young or old entrepreneurs starting an activity. That they can benefit from this support, even if at the bottom they did not fit into the full criteria, it is important and it is something that the environmentalists stress positively. This is something really interesting in this text. The fourth element that we find really interesting is the fact that this aid is linked to a real situation: the self-employed will receive this right of access when he asks for it because his turnover has fallen by 65%. This means that it helps to target people who have been affected both by the floods and by a decline in turnover. This access to bridge law therefore responds to a very special situation, a very real and specific situation. Finally, I wanted to highlight one last point. In this text, there is an interesting balance between the ease and speed of access to this aid and a two-stage control. It is really interesting to be able to combine the speed of the reaction - when the self-employed needs to be helped because he has suffered a large loss of income, he can find help quickly - with a control that ensures that the bridge right is granted to those entitled to it. This is therefore an interesting balance. In general, support for the self-employed, and especially in particular in particular situations, is a key part of our policy for environmentalists, and we obviously support this text, of which we are co-signatories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u110	This bill concerns a temporary measure to support the self-employed as a result of last summer's floods. On top of the covid crisis, this was a disastrous event, which not only took a very heavy human toll, but also has a very large financial impact on the affected citizens and self-employed. Even if it comes late, our group will support the bill. As in committee, our group does have some critical reservations. The fact that self-employed people have to have paid contributions to qualifying but 4 out of the last 16 quarters is very low-threshold. What about the self-employed person who for the last 4 years is only one year in order with his contributions? Then we are talking about activities that are de facto uneconomic. The question remains whether this does not support ghost companies. We also have a problem with the fact that only the floods in Wallonia are taken into account. When discussing the programme law, our group explicitly asked Minister Dermagne whether the scheme would also apply to the self-employed affected by the floods in the Iron Basin. In villages such as Roesbrugge and Stavele, which were largely underwater, there was also serious economic damage. Minister Dermagne replied in the affirmative and underlined that there is no discrimination between companies in Flanders and Wallonia as a result of the floods. It is therefore regrettable that the present legislative proposal, for which the budget was announced in the programme law, is discriminatory, with yet another Community distortion. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum states that regional entities must recognise the disaster. The recognition of disaster areas is indeed a regional competence. But the cost of bridging the law is being transferred to the federal government. All this must also be considered in the context of the responsibility for the disaster at the end of July. After a first favourable report, ordered by the Walloon government, there were very critical voices about the operation of the service that manages the reservoir on the Vesder. It's run by the Walloon government. Of course, they are trying to set aside all the responsibility, otherwise they will be held liable for all the damage. It's huge. As always, we are looking towards the federal government to clear up the costs. Despite our critical reservations, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u111	Last summer, we were all impressed by the severe floods that have hit our country and which have killed without distinction. The Federal Government has taken measures not only for the employees but also for the self-employed who saw their case under water by granting an immediate right of bridging. This proposal provides a legal basis for this right of bridging for the self-employed and can also be used by start-ups, because, as Mr Cornet has just correctly pointed out, the water makes no distinction between those who have just started and those who have been working for years. Everyone can be hit by setbacks, so everyone has an interest in solidarity. In this sense, I believe that the self-employed system should continue to strengthen solidarity. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the volunteers who went there to help. We saw a huge wave of solidarity, which has not dried up yet. This wave of solidarity by volunteers is in stark contrast to the slowness with which insurance companies handle their files. We have put forward legislative initiatives in this context. I believe that a little more can be done so that the victims can count on their compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u112	Would you like to speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u113	I have no comments to make, Madam President. This is an excellent text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u114	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u115	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2437/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2437/5) The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u117	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u118	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 9 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 9 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 229/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Eva Platteau. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 229/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Eva Platteau. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u119	Madam President, my speech was indeed about the operation of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. That is a noble objective, but in practice we must note that today the Institute is not so much defending women's rights as it is a specific ideological interpretation. There are no men's rights defended. One of the Institute's own objectives, namely a balanced distribution between women and men in the workplace, is in any case already not applied in its own ranks with 80% female staff. According to an audit carried out by the Court of Auditors in 2019, that Institute proved to be already unsatisfied from blurring and conflicting interests in the award of grants. Members of the board turned out to be very generous in subsidising associations they themselves were part of. This interplay came as a result of the trial against Bart De Pauw. We still do not want to be transparent about the tax money spent on it. It is a public institution, but it does not deal with public procurement. However, in this case one of the most expensive law firms in the country is contacted only after informal contact. One does not want to be transparent in what it costs the taxpayer. We have already heard in the press that the cost of this process is at least EUR 130,000. Of course, this is not a final invoice at all. Despite the many specific questions I have addressed to the relevant Secretary of State, we have not received an answer to them. It does not seem that it is necessary for this public body, which is subject to the law on public access to public administration, to have access to it. That is why we are tabling a motion of recommendation. There is a need for objective criteria which make it possible to decide clearly and transparently in which cases and procedures the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men acts and in which cases it does not. It is also necessary to ensure that the proposed criteria do not lead to indirect discrimination, with some victims not being assisted and others being assisted. Care must be taken to ensure that no distinction is made between men and women. It was clear that the Secretary of State was not inclined to do so, so the motion is really necessary to encourage the government to do so. That is also the third question in my motion for a recommendation, namely to examine the institute in such a way that it does the work for which it was established objectively and without any form of clientelism. Equality between men and women is a far too important issue to leave to the operation of the Institute. It is therefore more than appropriate to keep it under review and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u120	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u121	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u122	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 9 February 2022. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 9 February 2022. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 239/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Ortwin Depoortere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 239/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Ortwin Depoostere; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u123	Yes 81 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u125	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u126	Vote on Amendment No 30 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 2.(112/12) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 2.(112/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u127	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 3.(112/12) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 3.(112/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u128	Yes [[16]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 16.(112/12) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 16.(112/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u129	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u131	Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u133	Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u135	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u136	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Vanessa Matz to Article 8.(2485/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Vanessa Matz on Article 8.(2385/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u137	Yes 23 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Vanessa Matz to insert an article 9(n).(2385/5) Vote on Amendment No. 5 by Vanessa Matz to insert an Article 9(n).(2385/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u138	Yes 6 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz to insert an article 10(n).(2385/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Vanessa Matz to insert an Article 10(n).(2385/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u139	Yes 6 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u141	Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u143	Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u144	Vote/Steming 1(MOT229) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. - Mr. François De Smet voted as his group. - Mrs Laurence H annoyance voted like her group. Mr Egbert Lachaert has voted like his group. Mrs Marianne Verhaert, like her group, voted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u145	Vote/Vote 2(MOT239) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. - Mr Hervé Rigot voted as his group. Mr Tom Van Grieken has voted like his group. Vote/Steming 3(2043/6) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. Mr Tom Van Grieken has voted like his group. Vote/Steming 4(112/12) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. - Ms. Séverine de Laveleye voted against. Vote/Steming 5(112/12) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. - Ms. Séverine de Laveleye voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u146	Vote/Steming 6(112/12) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. - Ms. Séverine de Laveleye voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u147	Vote/Steming 7(2013/1) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. Vote/Steming 8(2410/4) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. Mr Christian Leysen has voted like his group. Vote/Steming 9(0270/5) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. Vote/Vote 10(2385/5) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted like his group. Mr Steven Matheï has voted like his group. Vote/Vote 11(2385/5) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted like his group. Mr Steven Matheï has voted like his group. Vote/Vote 12(2385/5) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted against. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted like his group. Mr Steven Matheï has voted like his group. Vote/Steming 13(2385/4) - Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine voted in favour. Mrs Goedele Liekens has voted like her group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-17-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip164x.u148	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 24, 2022 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
