ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u1	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u2	Mr Toventors, in June last year it was decided to thoroughly renovate the Proximus Towers. Three partners were selected to start the co-creation process. At the end of October, the Board of Directors of Proximus agreed to negotiate definitively with Immobel as its preferred partner. The Management Board has therefore not yet given a final agreement on the dossier. The aim is to submit a final proposal for approval to the Governing Board at the beginning of this year. The amounts relating to the rental payments of the office premises used are considered confidential by Proximus. So I'm afraid I can't give you that information. The intention is to return to the renovated office spaces by the end of 2026. In the meantime, during the renovation works, the employees will temporarily move to the adjacent Boreal building in the Advancestraat or to the Proximus building in Evere and the buildings of Proximus can be actively used in the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u3	Madam Secretary, you're answering the same question as you did a year ago. As long as the negotiations are under way, I fully understand that there is no way of communicating about them. I will return to the figures once the negotiations have been concluded. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u4	Madam Minister, my question concerns the salary of the new CEO, Mr Jean Muls. Will he earn the same as Mr Tirez? Is a new board of directors chosen to cooperate with Mr Muls or will the current board remain on and will that board also work with Mr Muls? What changes will be made to the management or to the board? In 2020, bpost started a new distribution model. Is that new project, Omega, a sequel to the distribution model?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u5	Mrs Dewulf, thank you for the questions about the administration of bpost and the Omega project. You will remember that at the committee meeting of 30 November 2021 I already answered a number of partial questions from you. I also indicated that Mr Jean Muls was appointed to the new post of CEO Belgium in place of Mr Luc Cloet, who was then the CEO Mail and Press Belgium, who has now retired and is a member of the Group Executive Committee. The CEO Belgium function was created to strengthen the leadership position of bpost in our country and accelerate the transformation. I also pointed out to you that the new delegate director, Mr Dirk Tirez, and the current board of directors, which was renewed in May 2021, want to take advantage of the opportunity to accelerate the transformation of the bpost group into an international player in e-commerce logistics. In this way, bpost can be given a sustainable future, while maintaining its employees' commitment. I also informed you that the first pilot projects of the Omega project will normally be scheduled in 2022, i.e. this year. As regards the remuneration of the members of the board of directors, the delegate director and the members of the board of directors of the bpost group, I can inform you that they are publicly available in two places each year. You will find them in the remuneration report which forms an integral part of the annual report of bpost and which describes the remuneration or remuneration elements of the members of the board of directors, the delegate director and the members of the Group Executive Committee. The fees for the members of the Management Board and the CEO are individually reflected in the report. For management members, they are aggregated because they are about competitive information. You can also find the data in the remuneration policy that defines the principles applicable to the members of the Management Board and the Group Executive Committee, as approved by the General Meeting of shareholders of 20 May 2021. As you know, the remuneration policy always applies from 1 January of the current year. Any major policy change must be approved by the general meeting of the shareholders of bpost. So I refer to those two sources, where the data can be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u6	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your full reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u7	Madam Secretary, someone found letters, packages and registered shipments on the ground during the period from April to the end of October 2021. That person has lodged a complaint with the customer service and the ombuds service by e-mail. According to the press article, she would have written a letter to you, too, Madam Secretary. Some letters were crumpled and lying on the floor. Was there an investigation at bpost? What went wrong with the award ceremony between April and the end of October 2021? Will the customers whose letters were found on the ground be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u8	Mrs Dewulf, your question concerns an incident in Leuven. Of course, I have requested information from bpost, where I was told that what is reported and what you now quote in your question was not written by a journalist in the media, but by a private person on a blog from the community space of DeWereldMorgen.be, where readers can put all sorts of things. It is important to mention this, it is a private person who wrote in his own name and in his own responsibility. Bpost says it's about facts that were reported between April and June 2021, and not October, as you said, but the company couldn't confirm that they were correct. According to Bpost, the notification, based on the investigation conducted by the postal company, has not been confirmed by accurate evidence. It was also found that the privacy rules were not followed. So much for bpost's response to the incident. Bpost reiterates that the company attaches great importance to a good service. I absolutely agree with that. That is also obvious, it is important for every company, but certainly for bpost, given its public vocation, visibility and reputation. Such incidents are not good for the company. Bpost took the complaint seriously and examined it thoroughly, but since the information available was very brief, it was difficult to find out exactly what happened. As a general element it is said that the quality of mail delivery in Leuven centre and of the round in question is particularly assessed as good. When the investigation was carried out, no irregularities were detected. The conclusion is that what was reported by that person on the internet blog should be regarded as very exceptional. They are therefore unable to give more details, let alone determine which customers it would be and what compensation should be against, if those people have not submitted complaints themselves. That is not the case either. So it is a report in which questions remain, Bpost tells me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u9	Thank you for your answer. People quickly write something in the newspaper or on Facebook or something, while they used to call the post office's own number to report something immediately. Now we have to do it through customer service. It takes a long time before people are helped and it would be better to be able to play on the ball as short as possible. However, it is now the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u10	Madam Minister, my question dates back to six weeks ago, but remains relevant. After all, it is always good to evaluate the end of the year and to draw lessons from it if necessary. I have not identified too many problems, but I would like to know how you evaluate the period yourself. How many packages did bpost deliver in December? Is that more or less than last year? Has bost been able to increase its market share, or, on the contrary, has it seen shrinking compared to the parcel sector? How did bpost prepare for the year-end rush? Has the company recruited any additional staff? If so, how much exactly? Were there any temporary workers recruited? Were all packages delivered in time during the end of the year? If not, what problems have you identified during that period?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u11	Mrs Vindevoghel, you are asking an important question, particularly in the light of last year's events. In order to cope with the increased demand for packages in general, bpost constantly adapts all parts of the logistics chain. The last year-end period has done everything possible to cope with the end of the year peak, which started with Black Friday at the end of November. The ambition was and is, of course, to deliver all packages in a timely and correct manner. We didn't get any reports that there would have been problems, which was the case last year. I refer to the previous announcement by Bpost, which we have already discussed here in committee, when you asked what exactly has been done. Bpost has invested in additional sorting capacity in the sorting centres. For example, at the beginning of 2021, two additional machines have already been put into operation in Charleroi X and in Ghent X. Investment in this area is also planned in the coming years. In addition, there has also been investment in trucks with a larger loading capacity to further optimise the transport of packages between sorting centres. Investment has taken place in what is called rolling stock, in particular 15,000 containers and 2,000 mobile devices. The distribution network has also been adapted to deliver packages in the most cost-effective and high-quality way. It is also important that more than 650 internal staff of the support services were deployed in the various operational services. This has really been well prepared in terms of staff. In addition, this is not insignificant during those periods, as previously happened, 1 to 2 % additional employees were employed with a fixed-term contract. Furthermore, the use of square metres in distribution offices has also been monitored continuously. Constructions were carried out in more than 50 offices, to create extra space for the processing of the packages. Finally, supporting IT systems, software and hardware were expanded and adapted to support the distribution processes. So Bpost has taken action. Bpost also responds to the wishes of its customers to ensure that the product is delivered as optimally as possible, both in terms of time and space. To this end, the company has invested in vending machines. There have already been examples of this, but their number is constantly being increased. In addition, customers are made more aware of the different delivery options when they make their choice. There was daily coordination and follow-up of scheduled and actually issued volumes to customers. In short, bpost has really taken a variety of measures. In response to your question, I was informed that the peak 2021-2022 went well, which was less the year before, and that no delays were observed in the delivery of parcels and letters. As far as the exact figures are concerned, I have been informed that there will be much more detailed communication on the end-of-year peak when the operating results of the fourth quarter 2021 will be announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u12	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. It's interesting to see what lessons were taken from last year, when there were a lot of problems. It is good that a lot of steps have been taken. I hope now that the employees get a permanent contract as well. It's still a tough job. Let us thank the people who made sure the deliveries were done correctly during the past Christmas period. I welcome the additional resources that must allow the work to remain human. That is also a good thing for the customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u13	Mr President, Mr Delizée, as an autonomous public enterprise, bpost is subject to the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters and therefore makes the necessary efforts to comply with these laws. Since these laws require that services in the German-speaking Community be organised so that customers can be received in both French and German, staff members active in the German-speaking Community must have sufficient practical knowledge of French. This is why internal interviews with German-speaking candidates are organised in French in order to test their knowledge of this language. On the other hand, the usual tests of external human resources consultants are also available in German. In addition, external evaluations organized for German-speaking candidates can also be conducted in German. So they have a choice. It is possible that an externally organised examination may not yet take place in German, but if that is the case, bpost is looking for solutions to remedy this because the principle is that, in externally, the use of both languages must be possible. bpost tells me that in this way they are of the opinion that the current situation is in line with the legislation on the use of languages. I hope this answers your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you. I hear the distinction you make between internal and external reviews. I hope that no German-speaking bpost worker will be harmed by this mechanism and could not, for example, have access to mobility because he may not be able to pass the French test well enough. I will inquire whether external examinations would not have been available in German because I understand your answer that in this case, language laws would not be respected and that, as you said, we should seek solutions for the future. I will for the time being take note of your answer and, if necessary, I will return to you. Vielen Dank für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit für unsere Mitbürger der Deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft in Belgien.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u15	Congratulations on the linguistic effort, Mr. Delizée!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u16	Madam Minister, on 17 November 2021, a pilot project was launched in Charleroi to track down citizens who are digitally behind. How'd the startup go? What kind of help is being offered? Is it noticeable that disadvantaged citizens or citizens with digital disadvantage are now asking for more help? How is this to be met? Pilot projects would start in the three regions. Where are the projects located in the other two regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u17	The pilot projects around digital counters at bpost are very close to my heart. The first pilot project, which ran for more than a month in Charleroi, supported 150 people in the use of a number of digital applications, which should allow them to do their banking and their administration online. The following pilot projects are planned in an office in Brussels and Flanders. The Charleroi project, like the other projects, forms part of the new management agreement, which has been applicable to Bpost for several weeks. The truth tells me that it is a little early to make an evaluation already on the basis of a pilot project in one office. This is still being analyzed and in the meantime the projects are also being launched in the other two locations. So I certainly understand the position of bpost that the results of the project in Charleroi are not yet really representative to say something about the whole scheme. In any case, a mid-term evaluation is planned this year, after the pilot projects have run for some time. We will also report on that evaluation. After all, on the basis of the results of the pilot projects, we will decide whether to extend them and/or scale them up. We need more information; it is too early to give a good answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u18	Thank you for your answer. I will follow the file closely and, if necessary, I will submit a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u19	Minister, my question is about a specific issue. So you may not be able to answer all my questions about this particular case. Nevertheless, I would like to question you because, in absolute terms, the times are difficult for the entire press, especially for the independent media, which are facing a series of increases in their production costs. Postal pricing is part of this fee. Access conditions are facilitated for press publishers. However, they may seem restrictive. Thus, for example, at least ten copies must be deposited with bpost. Format requirements are also specified. Beyond this, the standard tariff applies. But what is the price? The case we are dealing with today is that of the Belgian magazine Wilfried, which has a French-language but also Dutch-speaking edition, which specializes in political news and has a staggered and unique look. If shipping to subscribers is done without difficulty at press rates, mailing to the number is a problem. It seems that there is a dispute at some bpost offices or sorting centres as to whether the magazine should be charged three stamps at a rate of 1.10 euro, which still amounts to 25% of the magazine's price for the publisher, or whether it should be charged the Bpack rate, which is 6 euros, and which represents half the price of the magazine, which is 12 euros. Despite these fairly high rates, Wilfried found that 30 to 40% of their ordered numbers were returned by bpost because of this conflict or dispute over interpretation and whether or not the 5 mm rule was applied. On the other hand, it appears that some magazines are returned in an unsoldable state. Minister, what is the origin of these problems? Is this linked to an overload of work within sorting centres, which is why the pricing analysis is not always adequate? What are the possible assistance procedures for the sender in case of repeated problematic situations of this kind? How can a bpost office alert the sorting center of its misappreciation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u20	Mr Parent, this is indeed a very specific question. So I asked bpost about it. First of all, I would like to point out that, in principle, bpost is concerned about the services rendered to its customers. It was with great attention that bpost became aware of the facts reported. The company conducted extensive investigations to provide a response. From his research in this file, it appears that the quarterly periodical Wilfried is normally freed by paid port, a system that allows payment in advance and which can hardly result in insufficiently paid shipments. During the year 2021, the client's deposits were processed regularly and without difficulty. Although the sorting centres were heavily solicited in December last year, bpost tells me that the processing and distribution of shipments took place smoothly. It is clear, however, that at the end of November, during a special shipment from Wilfried magazine, there was a difficulty in the distribution of a special edition placed in an A4 envelope – according to the photos in its possession, which proves that it was a dossier on this subject – and freed at the price of insufficient letter. These out-of-letter shipments were therefore returned to the sender. A staff member from Wilfried then went to the post office where the shipments were freed at the appropriate rate. bpost recalls that in case of doubt about tariffs and its products, a sender can always obtain information and assistance from the employees of the post offices or call his customer service for publishers (special line: 02/201.81.81). If the answer is not enough, bpost states that it is willing to talk to the customer about each other distribution problem he would face. This index was clearly very specific and not linked to a continuing structural problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u21	Minister, thank you for your response and bpost for fuelling the response through this internal investigation. Beyond a specific question, this is the support that can be given to an independent media and the press in its plurality – which is very important. On the other hand, I still wonder about the conditions imposed on press publishers for specific shipments. I think that today we have a system that is suitable for large shipments, but that small shipments – such as Wilfried or other similar magazines like Imagine or Médor – pose a problem as to the correct pricing and why of certain conditions. I will continue to investigate this file to see how we could eventually make proposals to bpost with a view to adapting these internal directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u22	Madam Secretary, two weeks ago the employees of the mail centre in Anderlecht went on strike. The reason for that was that bpost had not kept his promise. Bpost had promised that people would get a permanent contract after their interim period. However, that promise was broken and the workers laid down the work for that reason. They stopped less than a day, I think. Is it true that that action took place? How long did she last exactly? Is it true that bpost broke his promise about permanent recruitments? What exactly was the cause of the conflict? 21 employees were asked to receive a permanent contract. Did that happen effectively? What do you think of this way of working? Making poor promises, is that the culture of bpost? Are you in favour of that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u23	Mrs Vindevoghel, that question is to answer it, of course. I asked the question to bpost. I asked what exactly happened and I got an answer. It was a short-term action that hit the mailing centre in Anderlecht. The reason was the future of some 20 employees recruited on a temporary basis during the end of the year. We have already talked about it, and that is what happens in the end of the year. Bpost says that it must always manage costs responsibly and take into account the evolution of parcels and mail volumes. This flexibility, with temporary workers, needs the company to be able to meet the needs of the market. Bpost's answer is short. Social dialogue has taken place on both sides in a constructive manner. A solution has been found for 21 of these people. They will be used effectively, or they have already been deployed, in areas where there is a need for staff reinforcement, in Brussels, of course. In short, I understand that there has been consultation and that a solution has been found for 21 of these people. That's the end of the action. I can imagine that local problems of this kind may occasionally have to be solved with good will and common sense. Maybe not everyone has been helped, but 21 out of the, I think, 26 still get a fixed contract. I believe it is not a bad thing that bpost has made efforts to recruit these people permanently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u24	This is thanks to the workers who have not been played with them. They have said: it is promised to us, we want it to be given to us. As a syndicater, I can appreciate people defending their rights effectively. I can imagine that people are angry when they promise something and then they don't. You spoke of the need for flexibility. Does that also have to do with the fact that contracts have been lost? I hear, for example, that Amazon is more on the market in Wallonia? Is that a reason, I wonder? I'd rather they all had a permanent contract, but I'm glad some of those people got a permanent contract. It's a tough job. We must have a great deal of respect for it, especially in the current context, now that there are many people too short. We must ensure that these people can work in good working conditions. Fixed contracts are an important aspect for those people to continue working for bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u25	Madam Secretary, the recent hearing with Proximus has encouraged me to deepen my knowledge of that company. In my opinion, the Internet is a human right and must be a basic right for everyone from that point of view. That explains the questions and concerns I am now putting to you. Proximus is currently rolling out a national fiber optic network, as we could hear last week. We note that this new network leads to price increases. Scarlet customers currently pay a less high rate, but may have to switch to Proximus or another provider. That is a concern, because this switch means that customers will have to pay 20 euros more per month, a total of 240 euros extra per year. Currently, an internet subscription at Scarlet costs 23 euros per month, which makes that company the cheapest. Madam Secretary, why can't Scarlet currently offer a fibre network via Proximus? Scarlet customers opt for the lowest prices, given their budget. What will happen to those customers? Will they fall out of the boat, for example by no longer having internet connection? How will Proximus deal with these customers and can they count on compensation? The CEO of Fiberklaar has announced in the media that the fibre connection does not have to be more expensive for consumers than the current copper wire connection. Why does Proximus charge more expensive rates? Telecommunications prices in Belgium are already among the highest in Europe. What exactly did Proximus base his subscription prices for fiberglass on? The second part deals with the roll-out of the fibre network. Has Proximus already asked the federal government for financial support for the roll-out of its fiber network? What is the federal government's position on this question? Mr De Clerck said something about it at our meeting last week. There would be State aid for the roll-out of the fibre network. Is it an option to grant subsidies to Proximus to roll out the fiber optic network everywhere? Under what conditions could this possibly be possible? Will Proximus have to finance the costs for its fibre network itself? Will Proximus be able to achieve 100% fiber coverage? If so, when and at what price?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u26	Mrs Vindevoghel, as you know, Proximus has an ambitious plan, together with the joint ventures Fiberready and Unifiber, to build fibre for 70% of all homes and companies in our country by 2028. That ambition is well known to you. They will have to provide some 10% of all homes and companies with fiberglass in the coming years per year. Operationally, it is not possible to go any faster, due, for example, to the limited availability of technically skilled workers. It concerns very specialised work. Let it be clear, Proximus has neither requested nor received any financial support from the government for this phase. In the longer term, we ideally go to 100 % coverage, in order to be able to offer the most high-speed internet connection anywhere. For this, Proximus is operational and strategically looking for alternatives. It is not so obvious to come within the current market forces to 100 %, because the last percentage is the most expensive, as far as connection is concerned. You can imagine that in remote, sparsely populated areas every metre of fibre is much more expensive than in the centre of Brussels, so to speak. Cooperation will therefore be required to go from 70 % to 100 %. There may also be some public funds, I will come back to that. The broadband plan I have explained here a number of times about government initiatives to quickly support the internet financially, contains an axis to improve connectivity in the white zones. Those are the areas that are poorly equipped with fast internet. We provide EUR 42 million of state aid for areas where households do not have access to a download rate of 100 megabits per second, which is the speed we want, and in which operators do not intend to invest in the coming years, because it is not business cases for them. In those areas, often sparsely populated areas, we're going to help. The conditions under which we will grant subsidies still need to be laid down in a specifications. We have to follow the rules. However, we can already say that one of the requirements for us will be that such a subsidised network will have to be open to other operators in order to be able to offer their services. Moreover, the subsidy will only pay part of the costs. Operators have to invest a considerable amount of money themselves. We will invest in the piece that makes the difference between the roll-out of fiberglass in areas where it is profitable for the operator and where it is not. We will match that difference in return, so that it doesn't ultimately matter for the operator whether that fiberglass is built in an area where it is profitable or in an area where we as a government think we should help people to give the internet quickly. That's the purpose of the grant. You should know that this partially subsidised network that we want to help roll out will have to meet all the requirements of a fixed network with very high capacity. This is not only about fiberglass, but also about coax, which is upgraded to Docsis 3.1 technology. Grants shall be awarded on the basis of the most advantageous tender. So they can go to Proximus, but also to other operators. They're not registered to Proximus. So it's technology neutral. We just want a fixed connection, speed and quality in the sparsely populated areas. How that happens and who does it doesn't matter to us. The German-speaking Community has a plan to roll out fiber 100 % in its territory. We would also like to offer 100 % in Belgium in the long term. In addition to the network that we will subsidise, I expect that in the coming years there may also be other technologies to give the Internet the same speed in those remote areas, such as 5G, satellite connections or possibilities where a mobile signal is converted into a Wi-Fi signal. Technology is evolving rapidly. The provision of glass fibre products requires wholesale products to be implemented in all IT systems. At Scarlet, the IT infrastructure was designed to run very easily, cheaply and efficiently on copper, making the implementation of fiberglass very complicated. As a result of the timetable for the gradual abolition of buyer, Scarlet will not be able to offer its current portfolio at certain locations for several months. This does not mean that Scarlet customers will be forced to take a more expensive subscription to Proximus. There are several options. They can first look at the price comparison of the BIPT, at www.besterate.be, to see if operators other than Proximus offer cheaper services in their municipality. Proximus is free to determine its pricing policy on the retail market. Glass fibre is a technology with more capacity and higher speeds than copper, so it is commercially justified somewhere that it is more expensive. Proximus has fortunately informed me that it is absolutely up to the Scarlet customers to support and help them find an alternative, so that they can have the same product quality at the same price they enjoy today at Scarlet. It really does a commercial gesture there. That's good news and good news. Scarlet will pursue the same ambition and continue to bet on simple offers at the lowest price. That's their business model. It therefore builds an IT approach that will enable it to develop new offers more quickly. In principle, this should be completed by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u27	I now realize more than ever how important the Internet is, with home education, for example. We must ensure that everyone has access to the Internet, which must be a basic right such as water and electricity. I am pleased that Scarlet customers can retain their services, because it would be all too bad that low-income people would fall without the Internet. However, Belgian prices are at the highest, while glass fibre does not seem to have to be more expensive. We must therefore ensure that the Internet is accessible to the vast majority of the population. We must not discriminate against low-income people. Proximus got people fired, but apparently there are people too short, so maybe we shouldn't have fired so many. Many technicians have left as part of the restructuring process, but perhaps we should have kept it in order to participate in the glass fibre network. If public subsidies are to be provided, there must also be control over people's working conditions. We need to ensure that they are good, and we need to be able to follow that up. Nor should we work too much with subcontractors, rather with people from Proximus himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u28	Madam Minister, as many as 1,100 people in the disaster area have been affected by the Internet connection. How did Proximus deal with this natural disaster? Was the operator expecting such a disaster? Is there an emergency plan in place to be able to act quickly should such a disaster occur again? How many Proximus customers have been affected by the floods in the areas of the mobile network, the fixed internet, the TV network and fixed telephony? What part of this has already been helped for each of these problems? What problems have not yet been resolved and when will this be the case? Are the repairs to and replacements of routers in the houses carried out free of charge for the customers? Should anyone affected by the water shortage and not be able to enjoy one or more Proximus services for one or more months still pay subscription fees, or are they forgiven? Proximus also indicates that it wants to pull glass fibre directly into the affected areas. How many families can actually be connected to the fibre network, and from when will affected families have to pay extra for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u29	Mrs Vindevoghel, that is a very relevant question after last summer's floods. Proximus has a complete procedure for these kinds of disasters. They intervened from the PERT mode, where PERT stands for Proximus Escalation Response Team. This is a kind of alarm team within Proximus that can be immediately on site and quickly solve problems. That was an absolute priority for Proximus. As you know, a number of employees have even postponed their holidays to help on the spot. I personally visited the region last summer and spoke to Proximus staff who confirmed that I had postponed their holidays because there was a need for help. Hats off for that bet. The floods in Wallonia were the worst we have ever known and caused serious technical problems in the networks. Of course Proximus had to improvise, as many of us did. In any case, it has been possible to respond quickly and to send teams to where the need was high. Absolute priority was given to rebooting the mobile network. Most antennas were operational after two days. For other antennas it was more difficult and had to install jet connections. On 23 July, all mobile sites were back in service. At Proximus in Brussels there is also special disaster recovery material in stock to be able to repair connections immediately on site in case of emergency. Customers in Pepinster are connected to the telecom building in Theux at the end of July. You know that the building in Pepinster was unstable and can no longer be used. Lasplows from Flanders, Brussels and Charleroi have started supporting the welding teams in Liège. Transmissions have also been carried out and generators have also been installed. The BIPT has coordinated and checked all this, not only for Proximus but also for other operators. They facilitated cooperation with the government and operators. Proximus has also learned from these episodes and has now adjusted his contingency plans. 100,000 mobile customers were affected in 55 mobile sites. On 16 July 45 were already operational again. The latter was operational on 23 July, as I said earlier. For the landline, that's a little harder. 47,000 customers were affected. At the moment there are still 1,100 lines out of service. Why is that? Some customers won't be able to restore their homes. Certain customers have moved temporarily or permanently, others have switched to another operator, whether the installation or recovery of other customers is planned. In any case, it may last until June of this year before all the customers who need it will have a fixed line again, either with copper or with fiber. You will understand that Proximus will preferably roll out fiber and will not lay new copper lines. I have here a list of the names of municipalities where local copper lines are restored and municipalities where fiber will be used. I can get you that list. Your third question was about equipment and the charging of costs. It is clear that all this is free of charge. I'm glad to be able to say this. This is and must be free of charge. They have offered free alternative solutions to customers in anticipation of recovery. 50 gigabytes of mobile data have been made available free of charge each month. There are also 800 free routers installed pending the recovery of the landline. Proximus technicians have also made 7,000 customer visits free of charge. It may also be explicitly mentioned when a company is committed to people in such disaster scenarios. The subscription fees were credited during the period when customers remained out of service, so they received a credit note. Unfortunately, this is still the case for a number of customers today. They do not receive invoices for connections that are not there. If this would happen by mistake, they will be credited automatically after contact with the call centre. That's a promise Proximus makes. Introduction cables that need to be replaced will also be replaced free of charge. The switch to fiber is logical, they are working on it. In a number of municipalities the damaged copper cables will be replaced by fiber. In 2,000 houses fiber is built, in 3,000 houses this is still planned. In the longer term, this will enable us to offer a higher quality. During the first year the customer does not have to pay extra for the fiber, after which higher rates may be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I also think that the staff deserves a great deal of gratitude. A lot of people have been working there. They were able to meet the first needs very quickly. I'm happy with the information I've been given. If any problems were to be reported, we can report that the victims will be able to contact Proximus. I am very pleased with the strong support given to the people who are already in a very difficult situation in the region. Once again, thank you very much for the staff who helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u31	Madam Secretary, customs are intercepting more and more drugs in mail packages. In 2021, customs at Brucargo, Zaventem freight airport, seized more than 6 tonnes of drugs hidden in mail packages. The drugs are made in our country and the Netherlands and then sent abroad by post. How often have drugs been intercepted through bpost distribution centres, mail centres, post offices or postal points in 2021? What measures does bpost take to intercept drug packages? What measures are being taken by Bpost's competitors with regard to the transport of illegal drugs? Are bpost employees trained to recognize drug packages? What procedure should they follow in case of suspicious packages or letters? Finally, does bpost know about employees who have already been approached by criminal organizations with the aim of recruiting them? Is it an essential danger that employees would be recruited for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u32	Mrs Vindevoghel, as you know, customs is the responsibility of my fellow finance minister Van Peteghem. Customs shall carry out random checks on packages intended for import or export by means of drug dogs, X-rays and physical inspection of packages. They also do so in the context of national or European customs actions. The initiative therefore lies with the customs authorities. Bpost is a technical partner of customs in this matter and of course it will cooperate with us at any time. However, it does not have access to the contents of the packages. Bpost is therefore not legally responsible for carrying out checks and does not have any staff trained to do so. It is therefore the customs that takes the initiative and bears the legal responsibility. It is true that there is; for all employees of bpost; for all actions in the performance of their duties; an internal integrity and fraud policy is in place, so that people are effectively trained in the field of integrity and prevention of fraud. That is an answer to your last question, but unfortunately I cannot give you a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-25-definitief-55-commissie-ic670x.u33	Then we will have to talk to Mr Van Peteghem, because I hear in the field that there is not enough staff at customs to carry out the checks properly. Thank you, however, for your answer.
