ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, David Maria Sassoli, President of the European Parliament, died on the night of 10 to 11 January. Tomorrow, his state funeral will take place in Rome. In his memory, the European flag hangs half-mast. We are all deeply affected by the tragic loss of a passionate European and a dedicated President, who led the European Parliament through the difficult times of the pandemic. He was a convinced European who devoted himself fully to the task, a man of conviction with strong values. It is thanks to him that our Assembly was able to meet in October 2020 in the Chamber of the European Parliament in Brussels to organise the government declaration and the debate on it in good health. I have addressed to the first Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mrs Roberta Metsola, the heartfelt condolences of our House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard that our former colleague Jos Dupré, Honorary Chairman of our Assembly, died on 2 December 2021. Jos Dupré was born in 1928 in Veerle, a rural village on the border of Brabant and Limburg. His parents, both teachers, taught him worklust and perseverance, two virtues that would later come into his political career. After obtaining a doctorate in law, our former colleague took up his professional career as an economic editor at the newspaper De Standaard. In 1963, Jos Dupré became director of the intercommunal Zuiderkempen, which still plays an important role in the region today. That versatile assignment demanded all his energy and required much willpower. For example, he was responsible for designing industrial sites, attracting companies and creating jobs in the region. He developed numerous activities and attracted a lot of investment to the Kempen, a region with very high unemployment rates at the time. A few years later and almost in line with this assignment, Jos Dupré became director of the Economic Council of the province of Antwerp. He expanded his professional horizon and gained more responsibilities. Jos Dupré put the province of Antwerp on the map nationally and internationally. Also for the results in this area, the noest and perfectionist worker enjoyed a lot of appreciation. His work and achievements for his region naturally lead him to politics. In 1974, he was elected, with an impressive number of votes, as representative for the CVP of the district of Malines-Turnhout. He then began a long and fruitful career as a parliamentarian. Indeed, Jos Dupré can avail himself of some twenty-two years of remarkable parliamentary work. The impressive list of his speeches shows that he focuses mainly on industry and employment, but the economy, in particular economic expansion and the regional economy, as well as social housing, transport and energy policy are receiving his full attention. Public finances are also of great interest. His numerous reports on the state budget have always been excellent reference documents. In 1987 and 1988, Jos Dupré became a member of the so-called "executive" of the Flemish Community. In particular, he is responsible for housing, the environment and SME policy. From October 1988 to March 1992 he was Secretary of State for Institutional Reforms and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in the Martens VII and IX Governments. Shortly afterwards, he became responsible for the Restructuring of Public Works, focusing on the delicate issue of the evacuation of the Berlaymont building and building office space for the European institutions in Brussels. In 1995 he was also President of the Chamber where he had been so competent in his duties as a representative of the people. In 1996, at the age of 68, Jos Dupré withdrew from national politics and resigned from office as mayor of Westerlo. Whoever knew him appreciated him. He always listened to his friends and his fellow citizens, both for better or for worse. He had an eye for what lived in his region and took on the fate of the disadvantaged and the least fortunate. On behalf of the Chamber of Representatives, I expressed my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have all been saddened by the death of Mr Jos Dupré on 2 December 2021. As a convinced Christian Democrat, Mr Dupré was a respected member and chairman of the Chamber of Representatives, Community Minister in the Genes II and III Governments and State Secretary in the Martens VII and IX Governments. It would be difficult for him to forgive us if we did not immediately add that he was for many years mayor, mayor and ultimately honorary mayor of his beloved Westerlo, his home. Mr Dupré was a Kempenson. His heart was not only in the Kempen, but also in the rhythm of his native region and its inhabitants. When he was asked in an interview a good year ago what had stayed with him in his political career, it sounded first of all: "Once on a Monday I received no less than 102 people." That was Jos Dupré: a man with the ability to serve the country with great conviction without losing sight of the small and great concerns of the people in his immediate surroundings. For his entire career he would defend the interests of the country, his region, his region and his congregation. Without distinction, and always with equal knowledge, energy and surrender. Prime Minister Dehaene would build on the work prepared by Mr Dupré as Secretary of State for Institutional Reforms for his Sint-Michiel agreements. The structures, corners and sides of our state knew as little secrets to him as the art of regional development, in both he was master. After the creation, strengthening and flowering of the Intercommunal Development Society for the Kempen, Mr Dupré arrived in this house from a battleground and with the support of thousands of Kempenians as a representative of the people. A house in which many minister with a handkerchief had to wipe the sweat off the head, after the fire had been laid on him by MP Dupré. Because doing politics was something very natural for him, or he took care of it anyway. He liked to leave the theoretical, parliamentary work to his colleagues. The essence of politics was crystal clear to him. It was daily fighting for that in which he believed and for those people who deserved to fight for it. He had seen a lot of poverty in his youth, and that was his fuel to ensure for years that we would all have it better together. He did politics as he was as a human being: socially engaged and with much knowledge of matters. I would also like to add his well-groomed language, which made him, above all, a correct and very courteous man. We are very grateful to Jos Dupré for his years of commitment to our country and its inhabitants. He gave one of his last interviews together with his wife and many years of support and support, Lutgard. They complemented each other, literally and figuratively. He ended by saying: "During my time in politics, I was never comfortable. I've always had to fight for the Kempen." The results of his struggle to date are visible and tangible and will be inspirational for many years to come. Get some rest now. Dear family, dear Koen, you lose a loving pillar, the country an absolute statesman and the Kempen a champion. Christian democracy and my party certainly also loses one of its biggest monuments. The government sends its deepest condolences to the family and neighbors of Jos Dupré.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send you all my best wishes. We have submitted an interview addressed to the Minister of the Interior. We would like it to be dealt with in plenary. We have the support of the necessary number of Members of Parliament for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u6	Madam President, we have also tabled an inquiry into the floods, addressed to the Minister of the Interior. We want her to be treated as a matter of urgency. The Chair: On the same subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u8	The Minister of the Interior is present. Is she available to answer your inquiries? Yes, thank you. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, we in this country are quite common in the field of clumsyness and inconsistencies in the Corona approach. Now, however, we are on a dangerous slope. On national television this week it became clear that a party chairman of one of your government parties does not regard freedoms as civil rights but as a reward or a bonus, something that the government distributes to its own nationals at its discretion. You use fake news to defend Maoist toys like the coronapas. You claimed this week that it's bullshit that the coronapas would be unscientific. You argued that yourself with utter nonsense, such as the thesis that science is very clear about the usefulness of the coronapas and the theorem that infected vaccinees are nine to ten times less likely to transfer the virus. That doesn't make any sense. Even the very friendly media did that in a fact check as complete error. Science - at least virologist Emmanuel André and biostatist Geert Molenberghs - previously stated that the CST caused additional infections. I asked your Health Minister on Monday in committee what circumstances we are getting rid of the corona pass. To the many questions about the CST exit strategy there was no answer, no criteria, no scientific arguments. There was only silence. That is why I repeat that question to your address today. I ask one question, which I hope will be answered. What is the current government's CST exit strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u10	Prime Minister, Minister, we hear a lot about the future barometer. Finally, we look forward to the prospects that it might offer. I will save you the money to come back to the disastrous episode of the last Codeco, with these pathetic but fortunately indispensable retropedals – thanks to the Council of State – on culture. Other sectors are still struggling and dying today. I am thinking in particular of the event sector, which is a little too likely to be reduced to the mainstream entertainment sector, forgetting that this sector also includes cultural actors who are not subsidized by the Communities, independents, SMEs, businesses active in business to business (B2B). Is it worth reminding you that Belgium, especially Brussels, is the world's second largest hub – after Singapore – for the organization in B2B of symposia, congresses, symposia? All of this is at a standstill! Eighty thousand families are still in difficulty, without the slightest prospect, having on them only the eyes of entertainment makers and omitting that it is also cultural actors, independents, SMEs that need to be helped. I urge you, in the context of your future barometer, to integrate the reflection on these sectors, as on that of games rooms, sports bets, casinos. Let's not have this bias to look at them with a guilty look! Thousands of families are waiting for opportunities! Offer them with a barometer – for once – credible!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u11	Prime Minister, the Council of State has shirked you, the government and all of us here by retiring the measures in the cultural sector. A motion had been tabled by Mrs Fonck and could be voted on immediately. However, you have voted against hypocritically. That's very odd. In the meantime, you have also had three weeks to adjust the other measures. I would like to quote: "Can you tell me, for example, why you can use 200 in the theatre with a capacity of 300, but with no longer in a theatre with a capacity of 1300? Can you tell me why you're allowed to perform in the theater in the cultural sector when you're not allowed to rehearse there? Can you tell me, Prime Minister, why you can go to the cinema with 200 people when you can't watch a cyclocross in the open, even if it's a Belgian championship?" Mr Prime Minister, ask the people of your own football club FC Brakel why they can all go into the cafeteria, where they can all sit together, when they can't stand next to the field and look at the kids when they're playing. After all, the risk of infection in the open is virtually nil, one in a thousand. "Can you also tell me, Minister, why in the shopping streets, from the Meir to the Nieuwstraat and in the shopping centers you are caught by soldiers or Dutch lockdown refugees, when you can't watch a bowling game with your family or cone yourself? When does this absurdity stop, Minister? Explore it, don't wait until January 28th, because the population mort, sire."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the corona crisis weighs heavily on all of us, but especially on our young people. They see the most beautiful time of their lives as it were passing by. As the father of two teenagers, ex-KSA leader and associate of Kazou, my heart bleeds. Our young people may not have a strong lobby like many economic sectors, but they too have an urgent need and right to perspective. CD&V has fought for the coronabarometer. We are therefore extremely satisfied that it will finally come after a long push. Our group is therefore very clear. The measures set out in that barometer should be as wide as possible. They must not be limited to the economic sectors alone. Our young people also deserve perspective and clarity in the barometer and as much predictability as the other sectors. Young people should not become cards to keep other sectors open or reopen. In December, the culture sector came out on the street. The rules were adapted and rightly so, but sport and youth remained in the cold. Christmas parties of youth movements had to go on in the cold and the rain. Birthday parties couldn't go on in the indoor playgrounds. For the second year in a row 16- and 17-year-olds could not celebrate with a party. CD&V therefore advocates equal treatment of youth, sport and culture in the barometer. At the same time, we need to look at what is possible for our children and young people in the short term. I am thinking, for example, of more activities in the youth movement or in the sports club with parents on the sidelines. This is not easy with the current contagion rates, but a good test policy should be able to do so. With the Krokus holiday on its way, where multi-day activities or ski holidays take place, the sectors want clarity. I have two simple questions. What perspective can you give to young people in the short term? Will the barometer also provide ready-made wine for our young people and children and the sports and youth activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, since I do not remember the coalition agreement, I have at least brought a piece out of it. I thought I would remember the following passage, which is why I looked for it: 'The government is strengthening measures to combat disinformation and the spread of fake news that pose a real threat to democracy'. Who amazes me when I read an interview with you in De Morgen, day after a fake news test by De Standaard, in which a statement of yours was described as manifest false. I have to conclude from that that, if you comply with your government agreement, we will know today how you will punish yourself. I assume that your own coalition agreement is not only intended to be strict with the citizens, but at least to pay some attention to it yourself. The fact that you are not complying with your government agreement is not news. It is very serious that you damage public communication on vaccination with your ruling. In this way you have become a propagandist for the antivax movement. What De Croo says is not true, the anti-vax movement says on social media, and if that is true for that statement, then of course also for previous statements by De Croo. By the way, you formulated your verdict in the context of the defense of the CST. The CST is a pass, a pass. Until recently, you were opposed to the pass company; in the meantime, you are in favour of an extension of the 1G policy. This should not be used to combat corona, but to encourage people to be vaccinated. That is why I quote from the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. I referred to the paragraph in question in blue, because since you no longer need that colour, I have borrowed it. "The Committee points out that under no circumstances should the CST be used as a means to enforce vaccination in a hidden manner." Do you think, Prime Minister, that you have compromised the credibility of communication? Where's the exit strategy for the covid safe pass? You have said that it will take two to three years, but I hope that you can at least qualify it as fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, the coronabarometer is once again on the table. There have been many debates on this subject, but they have not yet been discussed. This should be an instrument that can guide the approach to this corona crisis. He may also be a clear guide for the population to identify the situation in which measures are needed. There is clearly a need for more predictability and clearer communication. In the last two years, however, we have seen that the virus is unpredictable. Each variant presents new challenges and requires different measures, mouth masks, vaccines, CST. We see that certain parties at certain levels approve things and reject them at other levels. The test strategy also needs to be adapted occasionally. For many people it is no longer obvious to be with all the rules. The Consultative Committee has the difficult task of taking decisions in these circumstances. It may not be good for everyone either. Such a coronabarometer, I think, could be a good guide. However, there will still be a need for tailor-made work from the political point of view. By what time would this barometer be decided? Earlier it was also agreed that the coronabarometer would not be automatic, there is no on-off switch. How will it work in practice? What is your position on the possible regional use of such a barometer?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer this question together with the Minister for the Interior. This covid pandemic is a long-term work. We are now entering a phase of the pandemic with periods where the situation is better but also with periods where the situation is deteriorating. We have seen in recent months that it is difficult to take steps backwards in our lives, in our freedoms. It's never an easy matter to organise. I fully understand the demand of certain sectors for more predictability. On the other hand, predictability must take into account the complexity of our society. We must try to find an instrument that offers predictability on the one hand but also takes into account that complexity. It is not a simple exercise to do it in a clear and readable way. We must ensure that such a barometer can bring stability, but the instrument must also not cause rigidity which makes it impossible to respond to changing situations. That is why the Consultative Committee asked the Coronac Commission to work on this. In the meantime, there has been a great deal of consultation with the sectors concerned. This afternoon, I asked for a meeting with the prime ministers to be held early in the process with the various governments to see how best to deal with it. I will not avoid the discussion about the corona demonstration and my statement. The vaccine protects 9 to 10 times better against serious illness or hospitalisation, and 15 to 18 times better against inclusion in the intensive care department. Anyone who has been vaccinated, especially with a booster, has half less chance of getting infected and a much less chance of infecting another. So indeed, half less chance and not nine times less chance. I actually used the wrong numbers back then. The size of the numbers I used wasn't right. I made a mistake. The essence of what I have said, namely that someone who has been vaccinated protects themselves much better than someone who has not been vaccinated and that a vaccinated person also protects the others much better than someone who has not been vaccinated, is, however, absolutely right. For the order of magnitude I used, I quoted wrong numbers, but the essence remains. That is the essence of the message I wanted to give. Those vaccines are a scientific triumph. In addition to a scientific triumph, these vaccines are also an assignment in responsibility and solidarity for each of us. Those vaccines aren't noncommittal. We cannot say that science has done a wonderful job, but we as a society do not know how to deal with it. If, during such demonstrations, things are said that mislead or are false in fact or in intent, I am not afraid to point them out. Let me give you an example. Organisations that co-organised the demonstration say that both a vaccinated and a non-vaccine can spread the virus. That's like I'd say both Wout Van Aert and I ride the bike. That's true, we both ride the bike, with the race bike even. But we don't do it the same way. After all, one is an absolute top in his domain, while the other is clearly not. It's the same with vaccinees and non-vaccines. A vaccinee is at the top in terms of protecting himself and others. In a non-vaccine, it's a whole different order of magnitude. As far as that distinction is concerned, I am not afraid to put my finger on it. That is the falsehood that is told. People throw things together and say, "You see, it's the same thing." If there are factors different, then it is absolutely not the same. As a society, we must dare to do so. The choice to be vaccinated is a choice that exists today in our country, and that choice can be made. But the choice to show certain forms of behaviour that endanger the freedom and health of others when they have not been vaccinated is something that we, as a society, must put our finger on. As a society, we must dare to say that it is not solidarity. That's a false definition of freedom. If individual freedom is so at odds with the freedom and health of our society, then we must dare to engage in that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of the exercise to create a corona barometer which the Commissioner is now preparing in broad consultation with all sectors is to increase the predictability of measures under this pandemic. This predictability is certainly also important for the youth sector and in the context of enlargement for the whole of society, which has shown great flexibility, but also resilience, in recent months. They deserve not only our admiration, our respect, but also our support. In the meantime, the concerns of associations and the youth sector have been expressed by the Coronac Commission after consultation with the relevant youth ministers and are part of the preparatory work for the next Consultative Committee. The last few months have shown that a virus such as corona in all variants is very unpredictable and very fickle at times. Nevertheless, we strive to create a workable instrument that identifies policy when and how to act, without being completely mechanistic. If we have learned one thing, it is that we need to speak in two words and that we need to be flexible when the virus presents itself in other variants or in another way. We also know that there may be seasonal effects of the virus. That combination of many parameters and complexities we try to capture in that barometer. This barometer, which can lead to predictability, can also provide clarity. Clarity contributes to the acceptance and capacity of all those who have had to deal with these nasty measures for almost two years. In particular, this is important for everyone who makes plans, so almost everyone in our society. Families, associations, organisations and business are all making plans. Predictability of these plans is, of course, essential. We have been working on this question of perspective for the youth sector and enlargement for the association community in order to provide clarity and certainty. As agreed on the last Consultation Committee, this coronabarometer will clearly identify, in addition to sets of measures for catering and public events, the sets of measures that can be envisaged at a certain stage of the pandemic for the youth sector and for the community. That's very important. When developing the barometer for all domains and activities covered by it, a number of points of interest are important. I'd like to take a look at them. First of all, we must look for the greatest possible degree of predictability and certainty, but the barometer must also be flexible, as I said. This means that we could take into account different categories and types of activities. There will be a distinction between indoor and outdoor activities, because we know that the spread of the virus takes place there in a different way. In addition, I believe that this is incredibly important, and we must ensure that we create as much experience as possible of equality between similar activities and sectors. Mr Dedecker referred to the fact that sometimes people lose guidance, because things sometimes become incomparable, while it seems as if they are similar situations. We must try to answer that, but that is not easy, because there are many different characteristics in activities and sectors. However, I believe that this degree of comparability will contribute to clarity. Finally, there is another very important element: we must take into account the psychological well-being of people, especially young people, when defining the sets of measures. They want to spread their wings, party, meet. It is more important than ever to include psychic well-being in the considerations we make, so that will also be taken into account in decision-making, just as it has been taken into account in the past. Like all other groups in society, young people want to know where they stand. They are man enough to hear bad news or harder news, but they want clarity. I therefore think it is appropriate to announce now that, once the figures allow, we will allow all possible activities for young people inside and outside so that they can spread their wings and organise themselves in the way they want.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u17	It is clear why the part of the sitting is now called Question Time and not Answer Time. I asked you one question, Prime Minister, about the government's CST exit strategy. You remained as silent as your health minister on the committee last Monday. I didn't get an answer. You say you're against a card company, but with the corona pass you installed it, without any strategy to get rid of it. Scientists say that the coronapas caused more infections. Even the GEMS says in its most recent opinions it is no longer called Covid Safe Ticket, because it is not safe at all. It gives a false sense of security, it is discriminatory and it divides society. Please get rid of it! Mr De Roover, you are absolutely right in your criticism of the corona pass, but trade across the street here, in the Flemish Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u18	Prime Minister, like Mrs Pas, I have not received any answers to my questions! I have come to the rostrum to specifically question you about the prospects that the barometer could offer to two particular sectors. First, events, conference professionals and a series of cultural actors. It is 80,000 families, I recall, who need to fill their fridges, to pay for their children's education, to be able to repay their loans as well. Then I asked you about the betting and gambling sector where 10,000 families are concerned with the same issues. Not even a word! Neither on your part, Prime Minister, nor on the part of the Minister of the Interior! You didn't even dare mention these areas! How do you not want them to feel that they are negligible? It's not just bread and games. They're independents, they're SMEs, they're families who've been arrested for ages and can't do it anymore. I hope that you will have more consideration for them in the coming days, in the context of the constitution of this barometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u19	Madam President, Prime Minister, I asked six questions and did not receive any answers. I have one reference. Wout van Aert rides by bike, but no one is allowed to watch, even though that happens outside. I just asked if people could come and see when it happens outside. That's the bottom line. That question is based on what the virologists explain, such as Mr Van Ranst. I will quote him literally: "As long as they stay outside, I don't worry." What did the virologists say? They indicated that it was a political problem and not a virological or epidemiological problem. They've declared it's okay when it happens outside. Mr Prime Minister, only now have we been shirted by the Council of State and you are on your knees. Please take the measures that need to be taken, release the people a little and listen to or read the Winter Manifesto of 111 academics and opinion makers, who... [[Mike's offline.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u20	Madam President, Minister, it is clear to me that this is an answer hour and that you have probably also been a leader in the scouts. After all, you have clearly shown a commitment here to work towards predictability for our youth and our children. We are therefore looking forward to the barometer in which this will be finally rolled out. As requested, we also hope that youth, culture and sport will be treated on an equal footing for all in the barometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u21	I think the pattern is clear, colleagues. When one sends a question in the morning, one receives an answer in the afternoon. That's common with the majority. The opposition remains in the cold. The word CST has not fallen. Prime Minister, what you did say does not sound so credible. You said, first of all, to apologize, you had made a serious mistake and, second, you regretted that the others were not doing fair play. How credible is it to put that in an answer? Fortunately, you added that you did not want freedom to be lost. I do not think that is possible anymore if I listen to the chairman of a majority party. There is a basic package: we do not have to go to prison, we can go to the grocery store and to the pharmacist and one can be rewarded if one is good. Then you can also go to the café and the restaurant. Prime Minister, I would like to lend my blue marker back to you to bring a little bit of liberalism into the tent you lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u22	I think that some colleagues should learn to listen in this question and answer hour. Then maybe they'll hear the answers, too. [[Objection]] Mr De Roover, I had the floor. Besides, you're talking about community jurisdiction. The barometer should lead to predictability and steadfastness, but not to stubbornness. I am also told that there has been consultation with the sectors. The cultural sector, the sports sector, the catering industry and all other sectors want to take on their responsibilities. I am convinced that the barometer can also help them and thus provide a basis for them. I am also very confident that the coronabarometer will help in a long-term approach. Thanks a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to express my best wishes. Prime Minister, if you conclude a new energy contract, you will pay an average of 36% more than in December. The total annual invoice is 5,500 euros. The Flemish Interest has been trying for almost two years, through amendments and legislative proposals, to persuade Finance and Energy Ministers to apply the reduced VAT rate of 6% for gas and electricity, two basic needs. For many years, too, we have been trying to persuade the federal and Flemish majority to degreas the energy bill, which, even after the recent reform of the federal contribution, is still a direct tax bill. Today, even people are forced to turn off their heating or on a very low heat, despite the freezing temperatures. What is happening for the large group, 82% of consumers, who do not enjoy the social rate and who receive staggering advance invoices from 400 to even 500 euros? The number of defaulters is increasing. With energy prices things are going pretty much like on a football field with Kylian Mbappé, the well-known PSG football pitch, because the government gets the check every time, you come too late, you can't keep up with evolution. However, this is because of your positioning on the football field, because you sold out the climate and energy policy in this country to the greens. But you know what they're trying to do. In order to achieve European climate objectives, the price of fossil fuels must simply continue to rise. Meanwhile, pending the promised land of milk and honey... [[microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u24	Mr Ravyts, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u25	Madam President, Prime Minister, it was not a warm Christmas for everyone. The energy bills are now three times higher. A lot of people have to turn their thermostat a little lower out of powerlessness. We know the examples. Ann who sees her bill rise by hundreds of euros and who then attracts a sweater extra. A retired customer at Mega's who postpones his doctor's visit, because how else is he going to pay his advance bill of 1,000 euros? Or just a hard-working postman who is just outside the social tariff and sees his rate rise by 36 % at a month's time. The energy bill affects everyone, especially the hardworking man. Let us be honest, we from Vooruit have been warning of this for a long time. We even have a very concrete and fast, credible solution to this: reduce VAT on energy to 6%. Energy is a commodity, not a luxury. Energy must never be priceless. 6 % VAT, that's what Vooruit has been asking for years. But what do we see? A government that now earns millions more, and also slowness in politics. At the moment when people can no longer pay their bill, we see slowness in deciding. I admit that the government certainly took very important measures a few months ago. But the invoices continue to increase considerably. What the government is doing right now is simply not enough. Prime Minister, your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Van Peteghem, saw the light yesterday. He supported Vooruit's proposal to reduce VAT on energy to 6%. People have a right to clarity, not in the news, but here in the Chamber. Hence my questions. Do you recognize that there is an energy crisis? Do you acknowledge that the government will have to take additional measures? Do you recognise that the reduction of VAT is the fastest way, with the most impact? What are the proposals on the table? When will your government meet on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is cold and many people are in quarantine. This means that many people are sitting at home and turning on the heat, but that of course has become priceless. Hundreds of thousands of people in our country are at risk of poverty. The PVDA has been campaigning for a VAT reduction for 15 years. Last year we in Parliament called for a VAT reduction five times. The government's response was as follows. According to Minister Clarinval, the proposal was populist. Minister Van Peteghem said it was priceless. Minister Van der Straeten said it was a bad idea that the reduction should not be made. It was a populist, priceless and bad idea. However, the PVDA has continued. We've collected 300,000 signatures. Apparently, a number of parties have seen the light of day and the VAT reduction is on the table here. That is good, but there must of course be action. There is one important question left, ladies and gentlemen, namely who will pay for it. Is it not time to finally address the only logical player in our country who has gotten better from the energy crisis? Isn't it time to finally find the courage to address Engie-Electrabel? Do you know how much excess profit that is, of course, a taboo for a lot of parties, I understand that Engie-Electrabel has booked on the crisis? The company made 2.6 billion extra profits on top of ordinary profits; 2.6 billion extra profits for Electrabel. It is therefore logical that the invoice arrives at the company. Will you vote on the amendment which will be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u27	Madam President, Prime Minister, the rise in energy prices is staggering. Many modest households, but also on average incomes, are or will be caught in the throat. Evidence of this is the CPAS that receives many calls for help from a new audience: the middle class. In the fall, we warned that the measures taken would not be enough because they do not target the middle class that is left on the edge of the road. What to do? First, there's the emergency. Let us be frank, regardless of the solution chosen (loss of VAT, granting of an energy check or other ratchet), whatever the bottle, the important thing is not to leave the middle class aside any more, as was the case. If you opt for a reduction in VAT, please be consistent and integrate more energy into the index calculation, otherwise consumers risk losing with one hand what they will be given with the other. Prime Minister, what are you going to do? Will you, this time, help almost the entire population? On the other hand, I would like us to realize that this crisis is perhaps only a foretaste of what is ahead of us in the years to come, if we continue to maintain the energy dependence of our country at this point. In your government agreement on the release of nuclear power, we are not talking about CO2, but about prices! Isn't the increase we're seeing shaking up some of your certainties in this area? At a time when the climate and energy crisis is in full swing, Vivaldi is considering the construction of new gas-fired power plants without nuclear power. In my view, we should think about security of supply and the impact of the current crisis on energy prices. In view of the increase we are experiencing today, is there any anticipation within your government of the impact on the prices that the closure of nuclear reactors in 2025 and the use of gas-fired power plants will cause as an additional shock?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u28	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will go home by bicycle from the station. That'll be a cold bike ride, but I'm glad I can come home warm. You can heat your house, light the light, that's a basic right. However, with the enormous rise in energy prices, this basic duty is under pressure for many families. Ladies and gentlemen, politics must play the right role. I hear certain colleagues using easy slogans and I also see expensive Facebook advertisements on this theme. But there are no easy solutions to difficult problems. These rising energy prices are common throughout the world. So do not deceive people that we will solve all this by voting one law here in Belgium. That may lead to more likes, but that is certainly not a realistic solution. That must not mean, however, that we must wait for the storm to fall. We have to make sure we have everyone, including the middle class. It is now that the invoices are high, it is now that the advance invoices are raised. This government has done a lot. We have increased the social rate, we have granted the winter discount, we have made sure that the energy standard is introduced. In this way, we need to continue looking for targeted solutions, for everyone, and solutions that make a difference. We all know that the best way to reduce the energy bill in the medium term is to renovate and invest in solar panels, heat pumps, renewable energy. But that does not solve the problem now, for high energy prices. That's why I have one question, Mr. Secretary. What is this government going to do to ensure that all families are warmed up in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, the facts are here: our country and our fellow citizens are facing an unprecedented rise in energy prices and these prices are not expected to fall for several months. Let us not be afraid of words, it is a real social tsunami that is coming. The price increases that are expected are such that they now affect families that are not protected by the social rate. We need answers for these people, too. It is imperative that we put in place additional measures to support the majority of the population and to protect the middle class, at all costs. It is imperative that we act and act effectively. The reduction of VAT on energy is a possibility that the Di Rupo government had set up before it was cancelled by the Michel government. However, it is imperative that in the face of the urgency, the new measures that the government will take are primarily aimed at helping the middle class and, of course, protecting the most vulnerable by extending the extended social tariff after March. That is why we plead, Prime Minister, for the setting up of an energy check, for example in the amount of 200 euros, which would immediately result in a reduction of 200 euros on the invoice. It would be a measure targeted at those households, families and workers who are now in dire need, who are not among the richest groups of the population but who are also not protected by the social tariff. Prime Minister, what do you intend to do to protect these families who are severely affected by rising energy prices? Do you intend to extend the extension of the social tariff beyond March? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u30	Madam President, Prime Minister, the finding is rather alarming. Some energy bills have doubled or even tripled. Households find it difficult to cope and, of course, regularisation bills will hurt. In October, the government had already initiated responses with several measures: the 80-euro energy check, social tariffs and the ratchet mechanism. Today, households are even more in difficulty. It's no better. Each political formation makes proposals, which are more simplistic than each other. Some one shot measures do not solve the problem at all, in any case in the long term. So we have to think carefully. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance went back on his statements and said he was in favour of this 6% reduction in VAT on a temporary basis. Prime Minister, my questions are very concrete. What does "temporarily" mean? What's the limit? The CREG says this energy crisis is not over and will continue for months or even years. What will be the cost of the measure? I guess there are estimates. Today, the figures go all the way. We're going to have to finance all this. What about the impact on inflation, index jump, automatic wage indexation? It is also a matter of consultation with the Regions, because at some point the effort will have to be shared. Finally, the Minister of Finance says that there are other avenues on the table. What are they? We would like to know more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u31	Prime Minister, there are some records that everyone wants to break. Today, however, records are being broken that we would rather not see killed. We see high energy prices, namely a doubling of electricity prices and a triple gas price compared to last year. That is a direct attack on the purchasing power of ordinary people. It is to be feared that they may also be in trouble and that the invoices can no longer be paid. This government has already taken important measures for the most vulnerable families, such as the social rate, the 80 euro premium and the federal taxes that are being converted into excise duties in order to make things easier. At the moment, however, more is needed. The middle class also takes a breath. If we do nothing now, the falling purchasing power will also cause the economic engine to sputter. That is why Minister Van Peteghem yesterday launched the slope of the temporary and conditional VAT reduction on energy. It is a relatively simple measure, but above all a measure with a lot of direct impact on the people's invoice. Exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. People are threatening to go down, and the flood that causes it does not stop us with a few sandbags, which is now more necessary. As far as we're concerned, doing nothing is not an option. An affordable energy bill is a priority for CD&V. A temporary and conditional VAT reduction can ensure this. What measures are on the government's table to deal with the high energy bill? Is the temporary and conditional VAT reduction included?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u32	Madam President, Prime Minister, I will not repeat in detail what the other speakers have already said. High energy prices hurt everyone and the families suffer from high advance bills. The creation of these invoices is, in fact, a subject in itself. Business is losing its competitiveness. This will also have an effect on employment. We all see that inflation is on the rise. In October 2021, a number of good and necessary measures were taken for the most vulnerable group. A million families were protected from the greatest shocks thanks to the social tariff. An energy standard has also been introduced to save a lot of expenditure. As the authors also point out, there is a demand for additional measures. Yesterday, we saw the proposal for a reduction in VAT re-emerging. Is that a correct measure, however? Are we not achieving the opposite? What is the budgetary cost? Let it be clear: Open Vld is open to possible new measures to soften the bitter pill, if they are temporary, effective and socially responsible. For us they do not need to serve to soften the bill for heating a private pool. However, they must also be financially viable for the public authorities. We need to have a clear view of the cost of the additional interventions for our federal budget. After all, the bill for the federal budget will sooner or later end up on the board of the taxpayer. That is why I am asking you this. In what way do you believe that the government can do something about the high energy bill (...) [[Mike's offline.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u33	Madam President, Prime Minister, what is ultimately your government's course of action? Last September, four months ago – not four years! – Minister Van Peteghem said that VAT should not be reduced because it would cost EUR 770 million and it would be better to inject them into employment. Today, he claims to want to reduce VAT. However, at the same time, the president of the Socialist Party, who is still your partner, comes with another formula. Finally, what is the line of government you are chairing? There is an urgent need for action. That's indisputable. All formulas, let us have the honesty of recognizing it, have their advantages and disadvantages. The 6% reduction in VAT is easy to understand and implement. On the other hand, it has a perverse effect on the issue of indexation with risk in the end, because the rest of the prices continue to rise, and the purchasing power of the citizens is wrongly generously impacted. On the one hand, we are going to lower energy prices, but on the other hand, we are going to post indexation over time and structurally, unless the hidden agenda is to please employers' demands to generate an index jump, which would probably be interesting for competitiveness but then assume it! Let's not run away! We call for a reflection first of all on the mechanism currently being implemented by extending the base of beneficiaries of social tariffs and premiums granted in order to help not only the social beneficiaries but also the low-income workers, the working middle class, those who work but earn too much to be helped by social mechanisms and who are also faced with the difficulty. Please try, if only in this file, to give a little clarity and perspective!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u34	The January figures are not lying: the advances are exploding. The distress calls of those who receive those invoices echo here through the hemisphere. Prime Minister, the working middle class cannot continue to pay for all this either. Each time we have asked questions about this, this majority has said unisono, including all the parties who have just made a call: "We are only doing the social tariff. We only stand up for that 18 %; that 82 % gets nothing, nothing, nada! For them," so it sounds here, "it's not necessary." Colleagues, something must be done urgently. After all, we also know that in virtually no case, who works can claim the social rate. We also know that one immediately clashes with the story 'only social rate and nothing else' if one wants to step into it. Prime Minister, you really need to intervene now. It is quite clear to the N-VA: there is an urgent need for an intervention that is decent enough to help those people and which in the short term will ensure that they can pay for this winter's energy bill. An intervention that they will not have to repay in the form of a loss of purchasing power, because then it is called a loan. Prime Minister, we want action. Will you finally stand up for those who work in this country, or will you continue to hide behind the social rate? Will you make proposals that will ensure that those invoices can be paid in the short term? Finally, when will you do that? After all, we've been waiting a long time for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u35	Prime Minister, the surge in energy prices is a real blow for our compatriots: +173% in one year, 1,400 euros in average for a gas bill, 500 euros for an electricity bill. The CPAS are literally stormed. As parliamentarians, we receive a lot of messages from our fellow citizens calling for help. Most recently, Josiane said to me, "It means less money for treatment and food, but also for education." Ladies and gentlemen, today we are paying the price of 20 years of mismanagement and lack of investment in the energy transition, which obviously makes us more vulnerable to the global rise in gas and uranium prices which, as we know, are not extracted in Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, the first emergency is social. The aim is to ensure a social protection dam for those who need it most. Prime Minister, your government has already invested nearly a billion euros to protect the families who need it most. You have doubled the number of those eligible for the social rate. Will we be able to extend this measure - 1 000 euros instead of 1 800 for one year - beyond 31 March next? And then we talked about it for ten years, but you are the first government to introduce an energy standard that turns taxes into excises, so as to reduce the energy bill of all our citizens. However, much more needs to be done, including for middle income and middle classes. People are suffering at this time of this financially painful winter. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. In recent months, we have seen a very strong increase in energy prices. Several factors contribute to this. Among these, there is the revival of the economy after a period of quasi-stop and a very strong geopolitical instability. It's an international phenomenon. Belgium is not the only country facing this increase. That doesn't make it any less heavy. The fact that it is an international problem does not make the situation easier for the middle class, who is concerned about it, and for those who are awake about it. The federal government hasn't waited till winter to get started. The federal government has taken very decisive measures in recent months. In October, for example, we took measures which at that time already met the very strong increase in prices. It was a wide range of measures around three axes. The first axis consisted of a set of targeted measures to help people most vulnerable to the increase in energy prices in their overall income. The second axis was the structural reform of the energy bill. The energy bill is composed of a number of factors, some of which are decided by federal and others at regional level. The third axis consisted of measures to limit unfair practices or practices that do not actually give citizens the rights they should have as consumers, issues that have already been addressed in Parliament. I will now elaborate on the measures. As far as social measures are concerned, there is a question of extending the social tariff with a doubling of it. Two million subscribers are entitled to this social rate. As the Minister has often repeated, a reduction of EUR 80 was also decided in the budget conclave. In other words, there is an average reduction in the energy bill of €720 for two million subscribers. These are concrete aid measures! And we're not just helping a little, because it amounts to a package of 554 million euros in total. It is about more than half a billion in aid that we are giving to reduce the energy bill. We have not waited to take these measures. We have already taken these measures in October. Secondly, the government decided to reform the structure of the invoice. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy have made an effort to translate this into an excise duty. This translation offers opportunities to better manage price increases and to avoid price increases leading to double price increases. Indeed, there is the product, but there are, in addition, taxes. That reform has been implemented. In any case, we absolutely need to consider how to use the excise duty mechanism to better control price increases and fluctuations. That element is on the table. The energy standard has been under discussion in Parliament for ten years. The current government has introduced the energy standard. EUR 156 million is earmarked for small businesses and families to ensure that further price increases can be controlled. A third element is the initiatives to improve consumer protection. I don't need to remind you of the stories about advance invoices that sometimes get up to two or three times higher. We need to be very clear on that. The consumer has the right to refuse an advance invoice proposal and to make a different choice. We must avoid suppliers using the advance invoice as a form of pre-financing imposed on consumers for costs that suppliers would incur. The Minister for Energy has a very clear mandate to ensure, with bodies such as the ombudsmen service, that consumers are sufficiently informed about the rights associated with their invoices. The package of federal measures totals EUR 760 million. In this way, we want to ensure that the price increases for those who are most affected are kept under control as well as possible. With regard to other proposals that have been made, there have already been discussions within the government, but it is clear that these proposals are being discussed in detail. There is a need to understand the technicality of the subject and the impacts that some measures might have. However, I would like to be clear on what I believe are the guidelines for the characteristics of any additional measures. Firstly, it must be about temporary measures. Secondly, it must be about targeted measures that have an impact on the right group of people. Let it be clear that we are also talking about the middle class. It can't be said that the middle class isn't being hit today. Thirdly, the measures must also be sustainable for public finances. I'm glad some of you mentioned that. Others say it is simple and we can introduce measures, but they do not talk about the impact on public finances. I would therefore like to say very clearly that these three criteria are important: the temporary nature of the measures, the focus of the measures and their impact on public finances. Finally, let this be a moment for energy policy. We should not just look at a measure to help with an international phenomenon. After all, we see today that people who had the chance to invest in renewable energy are less affected. Those who have solar panels and produce a piece for themselves are less affected by the increase in fossil fuel prices. Those who have been able to isolate their home consume less and those who consume less are less affected by rising prices. In order to tackle this problem, I invite the various governments of our country to look at coherent packages, at measures with which we support each other. The federal level holds a number of instruments and there are certain federal charges in the invoice, but other charges are not federal charges. It is also possible to take certain measures that help people move forward in a sustainable way. People living in isolated homes consume less, and that is a good thing in general, not only when prices are high. People who can invest in renewable energy are in any case better protected against fluctuations in the international market. So let us use this moment to help the people in this crisis, but let us also use it to pursue as coherent a policy as possible with the various governments on shared energy competence. Let us take advantage of this moment to make policy choices that not all help this year, but help people for the next ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u37	Mrs. Depraetere van Vooruit, you're a Hyacinth squared. If you are still at 6% VAT on energy, why did you not just vote away our bill, but have you even voted against Article 1, which has not even been discussed? The PVDA also did that, by the way. Prime Minister, we are talking about EUR 760 million. However, will you deny that your 760 million package for 82% of the population has already been wiped out by the recent increase? If you're being a little honest, you're not gonna do that, are you? Dear Vivaldi government, lower the VAT on energy to 6%. Reduce the special excise duties and work together with the Flemish government on an invoice whereby people pay only the production and transport of their energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u38	I don't know Hyacinth. I'm too young for that. That's not from my generation, I apologize. Prime Minister, proposals are being discussed, and that is good. There is therefore no time to lose because people are literally in the cold. It's time for action. The point of view of Vooruit is clear. You are right, many steps can be taken at Flemish level. That's right. However, we are prepared to stick our necks out here, too, in the federal government and in the federal Parliament. It is a good thing that you do not exclude the VAT reduction. I would like to add a fourth criterion to your list, namely a quick solution. The proposal for a VAT reduction has exactly that advantage. It's a quick solution, it can be easy. However, if it has to be Belgian and there is another proposal, you will also find a partner in Vooruit, as long as the invoice can go down quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u39	Prime Minister, I have heard that a quick solution is called for. If our proposals had been dealt with in September, October, November or December, we would have moved forward today. The good news here in Parliament today is as follows. We can all count. There's 150 of us. If we add together all the parties who say in this House today that they are in favour of a VAT reduction of 6%, we have 76 seats at 150. It has been said for years that there was no majority in favour of this proposal. We knew that there was a majority among the population. It was said that there was no majority in Parliament. Well, today there is a majority in this House to reduce VAT to 6%. The good news is that a proposal is going to be put to the vote to reduce VAT effectively. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u40	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Yes, of course, these measures should be targeted and should be publicly funded. You're right to say that. I would like to look back at the beginning of your speech, when you say that much of this increase is due to international factors. That's very true. You have even said with accuracy that we can make ourselves less dependent, by isolating – it is largely the responsibility of the Regions – by going to renewable energy, but also by making a good choice of transition energies. You chose the gas power plants rather than the atom. You will therefore greatly increase our dependence on fluctuations in energy prices by closing nuclear power plants by 2025, when we could have protected ourselves from a series of increases for ten, fifteen or twenty years. And that's very unfortunate! Thank you, however, for your response and for your future actions, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u41	Prime Minister, it is true that the federal government has already taken several decisive measures. The time has come for the Flemish government to put its money into the bag for clean and cheap energy. We must ensure that everyone can pay their energy bill, including the middle class. I want to make it clear that everyone is having a hard time. Unlike other parties, I do not want to organise competition between different groups of people. Everyone is having a hard time, everyone has to go along and we have to look for targeted solutions. The temporary reduction of VAT may be a piste, but we need to look at all the possibilities. I am glad that you mentioned it in your reply, such as an energy cheque or a cheaper basic energy package. For our group, the measures must be taken quickly, as the invoices are now putting pressure on us. The most vulnerable must also be permanently protected for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u42	Prime Minister, we absolutely need clarity and ambition on the measures envisaged and we need to act quickly. I repeat that the Socialist Party remains open to the nature of the measures (VAT rebate, energy check, etc.) as long as they aim to support the vast majority of our citizens, without favouring - because it would be socially unjust - the richest category of the population. Government actions have already reduced the energy bill by almost one in five households. You said it. But we need to go further today. It is no longer a question of simply being ambitious. There is also a need to address the concrete risks to the population in the face of them. The population are nurses, teachers, employees of SMEs, pensioners, etc. I repeat that we plead for the government to thoroughly study the introduction of an energy check and also advance on the extension of the social tariff beyond March.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u43	Prime Minister, thank you. I am somewhat reassured because if there is indeed an emergency to help households, we must not confuse urgency with haste. The MR is calling for sustainable, structural measures, that is to say, on the duration and not on the one shot measures which, I repeat, would solve nothing. What we want is a structural mechanism that allows, for example, to reduce the levy on energy bills when the need arises, both at federal and regional level. I think we can join on this point. You did not provide me with clear figures on the declarations concerning the reduction of VAT. I understand that this is due to the fact that the decision is not taken and that a thorough reflection has yet to be carried out. We need to know why to keep and try to find durable and effective solutions over time for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u44	Prime Minister, it is good that you are calling on the other governments. Let us focus above all here on our powers, what we can do here, now and also quickly. You are indeed putting forward a number of criteria, such as temporaryity. A temporary reduction in VAT is temporary. That meets that criterion. Sustainability for public finances is also linked to this temporaryity and focus. We are going to a target group of not just people who are covered by the social rate or just outside it. This must be a broad group, of the broad group of the middle class. In addition to the existing measures, there is an absolute need for additional action with rapid impact. This includes a temporary and conditional VAT reduction. We're counting on your government to take such measures quickly. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear message. The energy market is a market with highs and lows and these fluctuations will always be there. In exceptional circumstances specific, temporary, but preferably no generic, measures can be taken. A VAT reduction may not be the best measure. We also need to see the debate wider and consider the long-term. Liberals prefer a reduction in the burden on labour rather than a reduction on consumption. We must help citizens to keep their invoices under control in the long term and to cope with shocks. We should not only encourage them to reduce their energy consumption by heating a few degrees less at home, but also by investing in energy efficiency, such as solar panels. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u46	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You will have work to do, already to unravel the great diversity of the partners' approaches within your coalition. But please take a measure quickly, an effective measure, but also a measure that reminds us that in Belgium, there are not only vulnerable citizens, the unemployed, social beneficiaries and beneficiaries of the CPAS that must be protected! There are also Belgians who work and even while working have low incomes and also need help not to be this middle class of pressed lemons. It is time to have an action that also takes into account the purchasing power of low-wage workers and not just those who benefit from the social tariff. I urge you to do so because with the energy policy that you have defined and the (...), we are not close to closing the debate on the rise of energy prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u47	Mr Prime Minister, if I sum up your ten-minute reply, it says: we do not know yet. There is no agreement, and everyone here is something else. I find it a little strange that you are referring here to a number of measures taken by the federal government, which make a crushing impression on the energy bill. All the measures you have listed will reduce the cost of 6 euros per family this year. You're not getting any applause for that, I see. This means, in particular, that you urgently need to take action now, in the short term, with an impact on the middle class. I have a bit of a fear that you will take the same tour as with the key exit: postponement, postponement, postponement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u48	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. In the very short term, we agree, it is absolutely necessary to help all Belgians, including the middle class, to protect them from this dizzying surge in gas and electricity prices. I'd like to twist it to a naughty cliché. I have heard about the exit of nuclear power and I would like to point out that if we are facing a surge in electricity prices throughout the European market and not just in Belgium, it is also because three of the largest French nuclear reactors have maintenance delays that are either prolonged or unexpected. Almost the entire French nuclear park must be stopped. I say this frankly: what is going to protect us today is to invest in renewable energy sources, the price of which has been falling steadily for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u49	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Omikron variant is again pressing us with the facts: Corona is not gone yet. In the countries around us we see that society is coming to a standstill, not only because of the lockdowns but also because of the staff failure. Schools are closing, shelves aren't being filled anymore. Here, too, that effect is now felt. Today it was still in the media that soldiers are deployed in the residential care centers, also in my hometown where I am ships. Hospitals are considering using contaminated personnel in the future. We must prevent this from happening at all times, ladies and gentlemen. It increases inequality but it also undermines the solidarity between those who have been vaccinated and those who do not want to be vaccinated. For us, for Vooruit it is clear: vaccination is the way to that collective freedom. This is the only way we can take the blows of Omikron. It is nothing more than solidarity, because it is about protecting the weak in our society. That is our task, here in Parliament. The Council of State endorses our position. Yes, the legislator now appears to be able to impose vaccination in the healthcare sector. Yeah, that's in everyone's best interest. And yes, that also protects our fundamental rights. The advice raises another blockade and that's good. It's been long enough. We are therefore calling for a rapid procedure, not only for compulsory vaccination in the healthcare sector, but also for the general vaccination obligation. It's the only way we're gonna get our freedom back. In this respect too, the first signs from abroad are positive, clear and optimistic, because the booster really seems to be helping against omikron. I have two questions, Minister. Firstly, what lessons do you draw from the opinion of the Council of State? Secondly, what does that mean in concrete terms for the timetable? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u50	Madam President, Minister, you will be pleased with the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State agrees to mandatory vaccination in healthcare. You're getting your act at home. Although you are not always inclined to follow the advice of the Council of State, and often do not, you will probably be happy to follow it. It is not, however, until tomorrow, because the social partners, the trade unions, have to say something about it. In that opinion there is something that makes me frown: "compulsory vaccination is necessary and proportionate in order to protect the population in a way that is not possible by a less far-reaching measure." Is that so? Isn't that exactly the smokescreen you're creating by taking the same view over and over again, namely that vaccination and vaccination alone will lead us out of the crisis? What about antibodies? What about T and B cell immunity? What is the situation with regard to the immunity of our health care providers? Is this mandatory vaccination still necessary at all? In April last year, 97% of hospital care providers already had antibodies. Why don't we know any more about that? What happened to those antibodies in May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December? In July, 98 percent of blood donors had antibodies. Why is there no further investigation? No, everyone will and must be vaccinated. The punishment is not nothing when one works in care: suspension in the first instance, dismissal and therefore bread robberies for the hard learners. Minister, are you really going to continue with this mandatory vaccination, with damaging consequences for care? Are non-vaccines with demonstrable immunity also fired? What scientific studies show the added value of the third injection in people with demonstrable immunity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, Mrs Sneppe, the vast majority of healthcare workers have been vaccinated and we are very grateful to those staff for that. It is absolutely natural that someone who works with patients or older, vulnerable people should have themselves vaccinated, because of the protection for those patients and the protection of themselves and also for solidarity in the shifts that are at work, in order to ensure that as few people as possible fall out. This is absolutely natural, as natural as the sterilization of instruments in a hospital. The Council of State confirms that arguments for compulsory vaccination based on solidarity do indeed allow the federal government and the federal legislator to impose a vaccination obligation, also that this is indeed proportionate and not contrary to fundamental rights. Moreover, the Council of State also says that when we ask people with a care profession to be vaccinated, we should consider, for example, imposing a similar obligation on logistics hospital staff who also come into contact with patients. In doing so, the Council of State states that we can organise vaccination on the basis of federal legislation for the latter group, i.e. staff who do not exercise a care profession but carry out other tasks. That's important. The social partners are divided on the draft law, but from their opinions I learn that both employers and some of the workers are of the opinion that when we ask staff with a care profession to be vaccinated, the same question must also be asked to staff without a care profession which nevertheless comes into contact with patients. The Council of State states that this is indeed within our competence. We must take that into account in the debate. In reply to the question of timing, I believe that we must make progress with this discussion as a matter of urgency. Just as I am of the opinion that Parliament too is doing well to have a very thorough and broad democratic debate on a vaccination obligation as a matter of urgency. Mrs Sneppe, you have already come up with something that you have often asked questions about. I'll answer the same question again. The scientists on which we base ourselves and, among other things, the High Health Council have expressly stated that people who were already infected must also be included in a vaccination campaign. Those people must also be vaccinated. The immunity obtained by an infection differs from one person to another. The immunity also depends on the variant with which someone is infected. There's only one certainty. Vaccination is the answer for those who are or are not infected. Vaccination protects against infection, also protects against transmission of the virus and protects against illness, especially against serious illness and hospitalization. Vaccination is a key to the fight against the virus. You are always questioning this again and again with arguments to which so many answers have been given. Vaccination is indeed in the public interest and is a matter of solidarity. We must continue these discussions and draw the necessary conclusions as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am addressing my colleagues in particular. Some Members used great words here in the hemisphere when it was about the vaccination obligation of the caregivers. I can look back as well as forward. The Council of State is now showing that those words were really next to the issue. Minister, I fully agree with you that a caregiver has a duty to ensure the safety of the patient by being vaccinated against corona and other diseases. It did, it does and it stays that way. Meanwhile, parents and children also fear a shortage of staff for school closures and employers. The signals are again on orange. I would therefore like to ask you to continue with this logic, not just for the care sector. Let us follow quickly with a general vaccination obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u53	Mr Minister, there are a number of things I do not understand, but that will probably be my fault, of course. Both the WHO and the EEA are calling for a stop to booster while you want to make it compulsory. In one month's time, therefore, you can announce both the epidemiological emergency and threaten to dismiss tens of thousands of healthcare providers. One would expect that in an epidemiological emergency every hand on the hospital bed counts, but apparently not according to your logic. The dismissal of unvaccinated care providers will make more hands on the bed too short. But there is a solution: one will engage infected vaccinees. They will even be requisitioned, even in non-covid departments. This government is really close to madness. So you'd rather have an infected vaccine on the bed than an uninfected non-vaccine. Stop this madness and let caregivers, vaccinated or unvaccinated, do their job!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u54	Minister, you and your party are increasingly calling for compulsory vaccination. Mandatory vaccination will be the solution. The question is then what will you do with the people who will not be vaccinated. Vooruit's solution is to throw the people in care out, they get fired. What will you do with the citizens who do not want to be vaccinated? I support the vaccination campaign myself, but I do wonder what they will do with it. After all, there is going to be a strange debate. I heard your chairman, Conner Rousseau, say it's very simple. We're going for a pass company with a CST, so whoever isn't vaccinated can't do anything anymore. In fact, the vaccinees get a reward. Le Roi-Soleil says you'll get your fundamental rights back. So nice of Conner Rousseau to give people their fundamental rights back. This isn't how we're gonna start in our country, is it? Fundamental rights are important here. Minister, I do not understand why you continue to do so and do not come up with other solutions for prevention. I am thinking, for example, of free self-tests, a proposal that we have put on the table. Yesterday Vooruit said in the Flemish Parliament that free self-tests should be carried out. Genius, I think. That is why I would like to ask you today whether you agree with the proposal that Vooruit made yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. Minister, Vooruit says he is in the Flemish Parliament for free self-tests. Are you also in favour of this in the Federal Parliament? If yes, when are these... (microphone is switched off)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u55	Mr Hedebouw, this federal country has a great deal of solidarity between the federal government and the Communities and between the Communities, including budgetary and financial solidarity. But the mirror image of solidarity is responsibility. Sometimes we have to say where the responsibility lies. In fact, the financial or budgetary responsibility for much of what the federal government is paying for testing at the Communities today is not here. Still, we'll pay for it. At some point, however, you must say that responsibility must be taken where it lies. When it comes to carrying out self-test campaigns in education, which I am in favour of, when it comes to the proper organisation of them and the possible free provision of self-tests in schools, the responsibility lies with the Community where education is organized. Solidarity and responsibility are each other's reflections. We can only maintain this country with a proper sense of responsibility. We have a general policy whereby we make self-tests cheap, namely EUR 1 for the 20% of people with the lowest incomes. If one wants to go further and carry out campaigns like in education, then I think that those responsible for education must make choices. I fully agree with the parties in the Flemish Parliament who argue in favour of this. For the rest, I will not repeat what I said in my previous speech. I note that the PVDA and the Flemish Interest are pulling one nail in the fight against compulsory vaccination. You're in good company. We are in favour of genuine solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u56	Minister, it is really bad in this country, how all levels bounce the ball back together. We have many Health Ministers and we even have the record of the highest number of ministers per inhabitant. Every minister is in favour of free self-tests, but they are always others who have to pay for them. What are we doing? You are the Federal Minister of Health and you are therefore responsible for leading and coordinating the entire crisis. It is not just about education, it is about all citizens in the United Kingdom. You recommend that all citizens be tested before visiting their families. That's three to four tests from two to three euros a week per family. That is two or three euros each time, because it is not just about the 20% poorest. So if we really want prevention, then we must make the self-tests free and not pass the ball to each other. As far as compulsory vaccination is concerned, freedom is indeed important to me. I have heard that certain parties in your own majority (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u57	Madam President, Minister, the donation of blood cannot be made into absolute law. That's clear. We need blood safety. The scandals that took place in France in the 1990s showed the need for security. However, the Red Cross said that there were a thousand pockets of blood missing for the end-of-year celebrations and the weeks that would follow when men were still banned from giving blood in Belgium for a whole year after their last sexual contact with another man. This is calling my group. You're gay. You're going to show some kind of civic act. You're going to give it your own way. You're filling out a form. They say, "No, you're gay, come back in a year!" Absolute chastity. Who still believes in this? What hypocrisy! Even in the Vatican, we don't believe it anymore. So it's only after a year that you can give your blood. It's stigmatizing. For us socialists, there is no group or population at risk, but there are many risky sexual practices, both among homosexuals and heterosexuals. I believe that these practices can be identified in the same way for every citizen in order to guarantee the security of donations. It is for this reason that we will introduce a bill to simply remove this scandalous discrimination. Minister, other countries have already taken steps to remove what must be clearly seen as discrimination today. After England, a few months ago, France passed a decree yesterday setting out the same selection criteria for all donors, regardless of their sexual orientation. Will our country, Minister, follow suit and allow for equal access to the donation of blood?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u58	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, the question you are asking is not new. It has already been discussed regularly in this Parliament. It has also been the subject of public debate, quite rightly. Although the focus in this debate is on men who have sex with men, it is important to emphasize that the exclusion criteria are related to sexual behaviour and not sexual orientation. Furthermore, it is essential to remember that all these rules have an objective: to ensure the safety of the person who needs a blood transfusion. It is this objective that must always prevail, which is why some caution must be exercised. However, knowledge and techniques are constantly evolving. As is the case, particularly in neighbouring countries, Mr Lacroix, it is not inconceivable that the exclusion criteria as we know them today should be adapted at a certain time. The scientific advice in this area, and in particular those of the Higher Council of Health, is obviously important, as is the dialogue with the blood establishments which must put them into practice. I understand that a bill on this matter was introduced today by your colleagues Mr. Rigot and Ms. Vanpeborgh. This is an important initiative. I therefore look forward with great interest to Parliament's work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I welcome with great satisfaction. I hope that the discussions can be started quickly and that this text can be discussed and supported by a large majority. The discriminatory exclusion of men who have sex with other men has now become totally unacceptable and inexcusable. Belgium has always been a leading figure in the fight against discrimination in relation to sexual orientation, in the fight for the rights of LGBTQI people. It is also often cited as an example for the quality of its health care. Let us allow it to remain exemplary in these two areas by making possible these thoughtful advances in safe blood donation while avoiding stigmatization and discrimination of some.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u60	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a happy and happy New Year. Mr Secretary of State, both inside and outside our country, we must be aware that we are determined to face those defined as "hate hunters". First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your firmness and on the clear statements you made on behalf of Belgium in the face of this threat. But why have we waited so long? An imam who has been preaching hatred in our country for more than 10 years, who has lived there for more than 40 years - without speaking French or Dutch - who would be espionage and who would be involved in the movement of the Muslim Brotherhood: why have they waited so long? Beyond the total lack of integration, which is often one of the drivers of extremism, this shows that, yes, we have allowed too long to do so. As an anecdote, if I may say, it was yesterday that the Brussels government announced that the integration journey, which we have been asking for for 15 years - yes, 15 years! - will be made mandatory next year or this year. This demonstrates the guilty, almost shameful, immobilism of some politicians. Mr Secretary of State, this case illustrates the situation of a large part of Muslim worship in Belgium. Yesterday, I asked your colleague from Justice about the shortcomings in the management of the Belgian Muslim Executive, but I will not dwell on the subject. Do you confirm that the individual has respected the order to leave the territory and therefore your decision? How have these radical sermons and calls for assassination been detected by our services? Why did expulsion take so long? What is the state of cooperation with federated entities? Finally, are other imams subject to reports from the Sûreté or orders to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pivin, and my best wishes to you too. I can confirm that at the beginning of October 2021, I decided to withdraw his residence permit from Mr. Toujgani. This decision was not taken lightly. It was based on very serious information that my services and I had received from the security services. Mr. Toujgani is the former preacher of the Great Al-Khalil Mosque in Molenbeek. He was very influential. He had been in dispute for some time now. In 2009, he was still calling for the burning of Jews. But that's not all! Last year, the Foreign Office received recent information from the security services showing that man should be considered a current, real and serious danger to national security. I, too, was informed by the security services of the elements of his file at the end of September. You know that this information is classified, but I can tell you that it concerns extremism and interference. On this basis, I have therefore decided to withdraw his right of residence and to impose a ten-year ban on Mr Toujgani. It is not currently on Belgian territory. In the past, yes, Mr. Pivin, we may have given too much latitude to radical preachers. This man was probably the most influential preacher in Belgium. With this decision, we make the difference and give a clear signal. We will not tolerate those who divide and threaten our national security. To your question: "Is there any more?", It is up to the security services to do the necessary work. You can count on me. Every file on my table that says that someone is a real danger to our country's national security will see me do everything I can to guarantee that security.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Almost a day does not happen without the services confirming foreign interference or indoctrination. This was still the case recently with the dissemination of extremist ideas in the mosque of Zolder by the president of the executive, the so-called executive, who proceeds to the formation of imams in Belgium. The buckle's closed! There was also the order of 30 December of the company court. You really need to have cooperation with the federated entities and the federal government so that you can receive as quickly as possible all the elements that allow you to make – just as quickly – decisions to withdraw residence permits. Thank you for your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u63	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u64	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Koen Geens, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Katja Gabriels, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u66	Madam President, our group considered it important to intervene, because it is an important legal reform that is before us, which many people in their lives can face. This is different from criminal law, for example. This is a matter of civil law, which must regulate legal relations between people in a good way. The objectives of the legislative proposal, which are to achieve a more uniform classification and terminology, have certainly been achieved. It is also, and above all, intended to achieve a more readable, more accessible legislation. The N-VA supported these reforms, which modernised inheritance law and property law, without, however, compromising family solidarity. The reforms were generally also welcomed by the experts. My speech on behalf of our group will be brief. We can, however, debate this issue for a very long time to come. In fact, we have done this in an almost exemplary way in the Committee on Justice. I would certainly like to thank everyone involved, especially Professor Casman, who has really been a very good guide in a not so obvious legal debate. The Council of State had warned that this was more than mere codification, as was announced at the beginning. A number of legal interventions have taken place, but we have been inspired by the various, and often very technical, interventions of the competent and competent professors. For us, it is important that we should be able to rely on a very workable instrument for the right of relationship, for the inheritance, for the donations and for the wills. This is an integral part of it. On behalf of our group, I would also like to thank Mr None who has done a titanic job. It can and must be said in the Half-Round when it comes to good legal work. There is much to be done lately to ensure that legislation is good. Everyone is supposed to know the law. Then it is more than the duty of this Assembly to ensure that the laws are readable, understandable, and well codified. I think that the proposal before us is certainly a very good step in the right direction, and we will therefore give it our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u67	For the PS, I see Mr. Boukili. Mr. Boukili? What am I saying? Mr Aouasti, my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u68	Madam Chair, I looked for my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u69	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u70	There's porosity on these benches! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all in this matter, I should like, like my colleague, to pay tribute to the work that began at the time under Minister Koen Geens, which continued with my colleague now in the Committee on Justice, Mr Geens, and with the important scientific support of Mrs Casman, who accompanied us during this work and whom I welcome. I don't know if she's here today. After Book VIII, after Book III, here we are in Book II. This proposal is part of the reform and modernization of the Civil Code. Others arrive or are under construction and initiated. They aim to incorporate into this new Civil Code and to introduce in a new way a whole series of provisions relating mainly to matrimonial regimes, inheritances, gifts and inheritance pacts. As has been said, this is a reform that is mostly under constant law, i.e. it was supposed not to make any substantive changes to the law. A considerable amount of work has been done on both matrimonial regimes, legal or treaty regimes, and inheritance issues, including issues that can fuel inheritance dignity in the area of donation, and forms of donation, in the area of inheritance pacts. The reform does provide for a new terminology, a more uniform terminology. Some terms will be defined or even redefined. Concepts will be reformulated, better expressed. Provisions are also updated, made clear, readable especially by the citizen and arranged in a new structure more logical than the old one. Thus, for example, a title is introduced to almost every article. This text, as I said, is the result of a work that is consistent in order to arrive at a coherent, clear text, because it has as its objective from the beginning to have and to determine a balance among various proposals, some of which, admittedly, have led to more political debates – for example, Mr Geens, Mrs Casman, the famous question of matrimonial benefits –. Like what has been done – my colleague having quoted the remarks of the Council of State – this is indeed an example of the collective and constructive work that has animated us, we have been able, on this particular issue, to see and discover on the basis of the examination of this reform, that there were two interpretations of the same text, that these two interpretations coexisted in a legal order. Therefore, we wondered whether it was appropriate to maintain or change them. Without going into the details of a technical-legal debate, they have made us take on the beauty of the law, that this right is interpretable and that it can be practiced differently by different notaries and this despite the same wording. This debate was not new, but it was the existence of these controversies that posed a problem. The choice of constant codification has been made, amendments have been drafted, signed by the majority and, like the rest of the work that has been done, voted unanimously by all the groups in order to maintain the current state of law despite the practical difficulties it poses. This is a debate that we may have to deal with over the next few years. We have maintained the same thing in order to preserve this balance between the interests of a surviving spouse and those of heir children. The choice was therefore made to maintain this balance of rights, namely, on the one hand, the freedom of the future deceased to dispose of his or her assets and to benefit his or her surviving spouse and, on the other hand, the children's right of reserve. We believe that the protection of both rights are two legitimate interests that must be guaranteed. The difficulty lies, or not, in the freedom that one intends to give to one or the other in order to benefit, or not, some of his heirs over others. These are good discussions because they are the founders of our rule of law. I would be delighted, in the same scientific, constructive and calmed spirit, to be able to contribute to these future discussions because they are of interest to us. In the current state of affairs, there is a text, as I said, which is intended to be coherent, legible, codified, which allows us to make a real step forward and to continue working on the rest of the reform of the Civil Code. It has been voted unanimously - and it is rare enough - unanimously. I thank all colleagues, Mr Geens, Mrs Casman. I would be happy with my group to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being put to the vote today was initially a constant codification of various books of the Civil Code that have already been thoroughly revised, particularly with regard to inheritance law and the law of matrimonial property regimes, by laws of July 2017 and 2018. The Council of State, the academic world, the Federation of Notaries and the Bars, however, highlighted many substantive changes that were made by this proposal. Our group also thanks Mrs Casman for the rather remarkable compilation work which has been carried out in order to respond, wherever possible, to the various comments or questions made by the actors on the ground, because this has allowed constructive work in a field of sometimes very sophisticated technicality. More than 150 amendments were adopted, both in substance and in technical terms, resulting in a text to enter into force on 1 July 2022. This will allow the actors in the field time to digest it, but it will probably be a little more complicated for law students, especially those who will have the bad chance of having to present a second session. For my part, I would like to briefly mention three specific points. I would like to begin by expressing regret that a formulation has not been found to update former article 931 of the Civil Code on inter vivos donations. Attempts to update in general terms have been proposed, but none have proved satisfactory enough to respond to constant codification. It is therefore necessary to think about it again. Secondly, our group paid particular attention to the evolution envisaged in the proposed law of the concept of "marital benefits". In the opinion of field actors such as the Federation of Notaries or Lawyers.be or the Family Law Unit of the ULB, the definition and scope of matrimonial benefits in the proposed law did not correspond to a codification under constant law. However, major steps had already been taken in this regard in 2018. As the professors who have been heard on this specific point in committee have also recognized, there are two different visions of matrimonial benefits - visions that crystallize different societal conceptions. The first emphasizes the protection of children and, more particularly, those from a first bed. The second focuses on the freedom of the cujus to benefit the surviving spouse - to the point, in some cases, of making the children's reserve an empty shell. Our group believes that a balance needs to be struck between these two categories of heirs, requiring a specific and more in-depth reflection on our choices of society. In the meantime, we supported the amendments tabled by Mr Boukili - I would say by endowment - or, in any case, by the PS in that they are intended to ensure a constant codification, i.e. to return to the provisions voted in 2018. Finally, the MR welcomes the introduction by amendment of the concept of "inheritance orders" in the new Civil Code, an essential concept that governs inheritance devolution. I will therefore not go further in the analysis of this bill, the technicality of which can doubtless throw away the common of mortals. Yet it is a matter that affects - at some point or another - each of us. Our group will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u72	For those of us who count themselves among the classical lawyers, this is, of course, a high day for justice. Books 2 and 4 of the new Civil Code may be approved today, which is something to be happy about, Mr Pivin. You feel sorry for the students and I have suffered a lot with the students, but this is not a big deal for students. This is bad for people our age, but students are happy that everything is now in the law. That is the case for the first time in 200 years, because the day when the Civil Code was adopted, people began to deviate from it, including the point of Article 931, which you are talking about, and I shall come back to that later. However, putting things in order is something students rarely blame us for. We ask them to bring the code, but it doesn't say what the law is. So in that sense, however conservative lawyers may be, and in particular some of the parties among us, this is progress. This is the end of a long road done by Mr Casman, not only with the Michael administration, but also with the Di Rupo administration. A long time ago we began to think about a fundamental reform of inheritance law, which had not been fundamentally altered since 1804, and about the right of relationship property rights, which had its last major reform in 1976, but was very quickly obsolete by the new trends in our society. It turned out that changing those important legal areas for family and society was the hardest thing there was. We have different views on this in many respects. Think about what the legal reserve should be, or what the rights should be of people who are not married, but who live together legally, or of people who are not legally, but actually living together. In the laws of 2017 and 2018, which were approved under the Michel government, we have gone as far as we could: property changes have been made to the legal cohabitation, while the actual cohabitation is a domain we are not ready for and may need to be reviewed within this and 20 years. This codification tries to integrate all this into the new Civil Code. After the law of goods is incorporated in book 8, this is the new book 2 and the new book 4. It is largely a coding à droit constant, it is a great improvement in readability, a synthesis that is of remarkable quality, but it cannot be said that there are important innovations in it. I didn't mean to. There are, however, a number of important terminological adjustments, as Mr Aouasti has already said. I refer, for example, to the calculus, the contractual heirloom, the heirloom, the health practitioner, the institutions of residential care for the elderly which replaced the fictitious mass, the donation of future goods, the acceptance and rejection of estates, the doctors in medicine, whole and obstetrics, and the pass. There is remarkable improvement and innovation in this area. However, it is clear that we have only integrated the legal cohabitation into inheritance law. The legal cohabitation remains separate with regard to matrimonial property law, precisely because, as I said earlier, we will still have to introduce innovations in this area. Mr Aouasti, who has done a very constructive job on the thorny problem of 'épineux', has already referred to this difficult issue. We have managed to describe, without including a definition in the new legislation, the concept for the sake of legal certainty, confirming the necessary distinctions concerning the protection of common and non-common children. By applying, by analogy, the marital advantages to the legal system and, by analogy, also to the matrimonial system of separation of property, real progress has been achieved, which can certainly be refined in the course of the legislative period. It is with equal pleasure that I look forward to the debate on this subject in that delicious Committee on Justice. Then I come to the registers on family property rights, which have been computerized for a large part, with the help of the federation of notaries, who are doing a great deal of useful work in this area. The Central Marriage Agreement Register, the Central Heritage Register and the Central Will Register are fully integrated into the new Code, with the appropriate terminology. Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that the Justice Commission in this area, under the expert advice of Professor Casman, who cannot be thanked enough for what it has done for this country, has done a pleasant job in this area. If it is not always fun in the plenum, in the Committee on Justice we have a lot of fun. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that you are deeply impressed by the attention you are listening to. You're welcome on that committee. You'd learn to laugh. Having said that, we have progressed patiently together, with a majority and opposition, as is appropriate for the great work in justice. For the first time in a very long time, I dare not speak in 200 years, but it is perhaps more, we in the Civil Code now have solid books on inheritance law and matrimonial property law. Madam President, that is a credit to your Chamber, and that is a credit to this House, and that is a credit to our experts and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u73	Madam Chair, perhaps I will break the mood about the amendment of the Civil Code. I am not excited about this reform, particularly because it is premature and inconsistent. This recodification is premature and in completely dispersed order. You are rewriting title 3 of a future new book 2 of the Civil Code but nothing is known about titles 1 and 2. They're not made yet. This means settling the property relations of couples without having previously identified couples and their legal status. I don't see exactly what the logic of this method is. For title 4 on successions and liberalities, you recode it while this subject is also related to couples. Family law must be a coherent and logical whole. Why not start from the beginning? Why codify in pieces and not at once? What is the added value of this method and how will it bring greater clarity? It is also an incomprehensible recoding. You will renumber articles of the Civil Code. In the Code as it currently exists, the numbers range from 1 to 2,280. From now on, there will be a drawer number that will be difficult to pronounce and memorize. This will further complicate an already ununderstandable right for citizens. In addition to the change in numbering, the terms are changed without necessarily seeing the interest. Why talk about a marriage agreement rather than a marriage contract, which is a clear and easily understandable term for all? Why change words and expressions to which professionals and citizens are accustomed, with the problems that this can pose when reading pre-reform judgments or texts? Ladies and gentlemen, the course of this reform has also presented something quite remarkable: the opinion of the experts has been sought! Civil society has been asked for advice. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, that they have a lot of work to do and that asking them for opinions only increases their workload. Opinions were received from lawyers.be, the Dutch-speaking Bar Association, the ULB Private Law Centre or the Federation of Notaries, who expressed reservations about the text. They have denounced all the problems I have faced since the beginning of my speech. That was not my own words, but those of the experts! They weren't listened to. And I wonder what it means to ask the experts for their opinion, to give them this workload so that they do not take it into account afterwards. Is this the new way of doing politics? Is this civil participation, citizen participation? We give you advice and throw them in the trash. These are some examples that show that we have different visions of what the right should be. Yes, the Civil Code is old! He is more than 200 years old, you said, Mr Geens, he is very old and we must reform him! We need to modernize it! But instead of amending it every two years to make it more complex, we believe that our Civil Code should, on the contrary, become clearer, more accessible, more understandable for professionals, but also for the citizens who are the first to be affected by the law and the laws to which they must be able to respond. People must be able to know and understand the laws that must be designed for them and not by ignoring their opinion. This reform goes in the opposite direction, bringing even more complexity and thus widening the gap between citizens, workers, professionals, the judiciary and the political world that does not listen to them. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I will break unanimity. I am sorry to slow down this general enthusiasm and my group will abstain on this text, which only removes the citizen from the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the protagonists who have worked seriously on this issue. I am thinking in particular of Mr Koen Geens and Professor Hélène Casman. Nevertheless, my group will abstain from this text for the reasons that I will try to explain to you. Indeed, it codifies with great competence and rigour two important texts voted in the previous legislature, namely the reform of inheritance law and the law of matrimonial regimes. At the time, we strongly opposed certain aspects of this reform and tabled many amendments which were almost all rejected by the majority at the time, even though they had been co-signed by certain parties of that majority. Go understand! Endorsing the bill under consideration would be tantamount to approving this reform, which we still find unacceptable. If progress in terms of the modernity of the texts, with the integration of case law, simplification of language, even if it is relative, and clarification of concepts can be welcomed, we cannot accept that the step backwards towards children, in particular those of a first union, can be confirmed on the occasion of this bill. The imbalance is and remains total. The whole to individualism is exaggerated. We can't admit it. That is why we have opposed this reform. The most obvious example is the available quota fixed at half of the estate, regardless of the number of children. The old proposal, not amended by the new proposal, maintains this quotient, which limits the reserve of children in a family to a portion, as soon as they are two. This is all the more true if, during a family recomposition, matrimonial benefits, also extended with the previous reforms, are granted to the new spouse. This solution is a serious infringement of, or likely to be, the principle of equality and proportionality. The child is the most permanent link he is. We cannot divorce him. This link is fundamental. That is why we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u75	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u76	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1272/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1272/10) The bill has 66 articles. The bill has 66 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u78	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jef Van den Bergh, Leen Dierick, Jan Briers, Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Kim Buyst, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u80	Madam President, I thank the authors of the proposal and especially Mr Van den Bergh. This proposal brings legislation into line with its time and reality, by broadening the definition of devices whose use at the wheel must be considered as endangering the lives of others. It is an important phenomenon and a struggle. According to Vias, the use of mobile phones is responsible for at least 50 deaths, i.e. 10% of the number of road fatalities in 2020, and 4,500 injuries each year. A few seconds of inattention may indeed prove fatal. These accidents involve motorists of course but also 50% of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. The government, with in particular the Ministers of the Interior, Mobility and Justice, has embarked on a plan aimed at zero deaths on the road by 2050. This proposal will not solve everything but is part of this broader vision. The increase and proportionality of the fines caused by the change in category are linked to the fair consideration of the risk, since, as pointed out by the authors, the use of electronic devices must be regarded as a risk to the safety of other users. This is not a tax on all social categories indistinctly, but rather a penalty for dangerous behaviour. In this sense, our first concern is the consequences for victims and their families in the event of an accident. Vias' latest report on the adequacy of sanctions for repeat offenders recalls the interest for general behaviour in raising sanctions, but calls for a specific approach based on the use of alternative measures and accompaniment for recurring behaviour. It is in this sense that we must work to avoid the feeling of impunity among those who can afford to pay fines. A system of basic sanctions applicable to everyone and proportionate to the risks is nevertheless fundamental as a deterrent, as is an increase in our ability to control in order to achieve our road safety objectives and protect all our citizens. That is why we have always supported, and will continue to support, the text and the two essential provisions contained therein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u81	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a quiet residential area in the Brussels municipality of Laeken, an 85-year-old woman is hit on the zebra path. There was no poor visibility, but no skid marks either. The driver of the car was distracted by his cell phone. The old lady dies. Great hustle and bustle on a rainy day on the A12 between Antwerp and Brussels. On the right-hand lane, the trucks move on step foot. Suddenly a blow... A passenger car hit for three quarters under the trailer of the truck in the tail of the traffic jam. Driver dead instantly, barely recognizable. But the cell phone is visible in his hand. A sunny day in the summer of 2021, a pedestrian wants to cross a zebra path. A 24-year-old young lady with sunglasses behind the wheel stops to leave the pedestrian out front. Hardly is the pedestrian past the car or is catapulted with a blow forward. The driver of the rear car had not noticed that his predecessor had stopped at the crosswalk. Quickly read a message on the phone. The 24-year-old girl with sunglasses is seriously injured and later dies in the hospital. Colleagues, this is all about true road accidents, caused directly by the use of the mobile phone or smartphone behind the wheel. The knowledge institute Vias speaks of at least 50 fatalities per year in our country. Maybe those 50 deaths in our traffic due to cell phone usage are still underrated. If you find that smartphone somewhere in the bottom of the car after an accident, you can never be sure whether there is a causal link between that device and the accident. Colleagues, we count at least 50 deaths a year in our country and 2,500 injured in our traffic. That's not just in our country, by the way. In the European Union, we lose 16 Europeans every day because of mobile phone use, just because we can't stop looking at that smartphone. Everyone knows what happens when that plane vibrates or beeps when we walk down the halls, when we're watching a movie or football, when we're in a meeting or even when we're talking to each other at the table. Many of us will have to admit that the eyes are constantly watching the screen. This is often disturbing, but, of course, it does not hurt much, unless one is behind the wheel. If you look at the screen for just five seconds while driving at 90 kilometers per hour, you drive 120 meters blind. Then one drives through a football field without having seen anything. Anyone who thinks about this will recognise that the use of the smartphone behind the wheel represents an irresponsible risk, a risk that many will sometimes continue to take almost unconsciously, with all the consequences for road safety on our roads. A road safety policy designed to reduce the number of victims, which supports the zero vision objective, which cannot accept that people die or suffer the consequences of accidents that happen for a lifetime simply because one is careless behind the wheel, should focus on the killers in traffic, namely driving under the influence, driving at too high speed, driving without a seat belt and increasingly distraction from using the mobile phone, the smartphone and other devices behind the wheel. A thorough approach to mobile use behind the wheel requires several initiatives with a number of action points. That starts with awareness-raising and communication. It remains crucial that campaigns are repeated. Last year, for example, the Flemish Traffic Administration Foundation conducted the car mode campaign, an awareness campaign to put the device in a kind of aircraft position, when seated behind the wheel. This brings me straight to the other point of attention, namely car mode. Both mobile and car manufacturers can develop technological solutions. Such applications already exist. They can also install and activate smartly, so smartphones can no longer be used unauthorizedly behind the wheel. Automatic car mode when the user is driving seems technologically perfectly feasible. This applies not only to the loose, whether or not connected devices, but also to in-car systems, built-in communication screens of modern cars. Mr Brijs pointed out a few months ago that this distraction also created. They also cause major risks in traffic. The European Union must take action on this, in line with the United States, with risk analyses of such applications in the car. A crucial challenge in addressing smartphone use behind the wheel is enforcement. At present, around 100,000 minutes are written each year for the use of a mobile phone in the hand. That may seem a huge amount, but in practice it is only a very small tip of the iceberg. Last year's infamous pilot project of VIAS in the Antwerp region in a place on our road network where 140,000 vehicles pass daily, resulted in as much as 1.5 % of all drivers who passed at that one point of our road network driving with the mobile phone in hand. All the behavioral studies also show that almost a quarter of all drivers indicate that they use the mobile phone behind the wheel during each ride. Maintaining this phenomenon is therefore a challenge. The determination must be made in the act, which is not always evident. Cell phone usage is also not always visible. The police are looking for solutions to check that out properly. In East Flanders, for example, a truck was already turned on to observe up-to-date. In the Netherlands, a bus was used to detect violations of a smartphone on the driver's lap. Unfortunately, such actions are needed, including media-sensitive actions. For example, the Road Police in the province of Antwerp organised a week against the distraction, including thematic sessions for the police court. I also mention the national weekend without distractions. We need to make even more use of such enforcement actions, and they deserve an even greater priority among police forces. We must also have the courage to look further, including the possibilities offered by modern available techniques. Both in the Netherlands and Spain, the police are already using smart cameras to detect mobile phone use behind the wheel. Such techniques can greatly enhance road safety actions. It also allows them to save lives. We must consider this carefully, not at the expense of everything, for example not at the expense of the privacy of drivers, but we must do serious work to avoid road accidents. We therefore explicitly support the Minister for Mobility with his Federal Road Safety Action Plan. The use of technical means, such as cameras for irrefutable violations, is an important action point and is crucial to maintain the ban on mobile use behind the wheel more efficiently. Apart from prevention, technological solutions and enforcement, there are two essential building blocks in an integrated approach to mobile use behind the wheel, in particular a correct and clear definition in the road code of the offence and a correct classification in the categorization of traffic offences, or in other words the fine which must be adequately deterred. The proposal before us today focuses on these two points. Distraction in traffic is today contained under Article 8 of the Road Code, which is the rules for the driver on the public road, with under 8.3 a provision on distraction in general and under 8.4, the specific provision on mobile use behind the wheel. Colleagues, provision 8.4 dates back more than 20 years ago, from the year 2000. Smartphones weren't there then, except maybe the first Blackberry, but that wasn't the smartphone we know today. For example, the first iphone dates back to 2007. The year 2000 was the year in which Nokia launched the iconic model 3310. So it was very different times. The provision in the Road Code that was then registered was therefore mainly directed against the use of non-hand-free calling behind the wheel. In this sense, Article 8.4, as it was formulated at the time, is still useful, but in that case the smartphone should be considered as a portable phone. However, an update is necessary. Anyone who scrolls or scrolls with a smartphone today does not necessarily control the device, as the article determines. Those who use a mini-tablet behind the wheel today to read and/or send e-mails or messenger messages do not use a phone. An update of the definition is therefore necessary for this too. The challenge was to arrive at a clear, readable and concise text. Some members suggested that it might be best to simply ban any use of such a communication device in the car. That's the simplest part. However, that seemed too far-reaching to us. Although hand-free telephones are certainly also a distracting factor in traffic, we do not want to make it completely impossible. Moreover, this possibility of calling can also be important in terms of safety and security. In addition, the smartphone has also replaced the tomtoms and other separate GPS devices, as we know them on the windscreen of many cars. Also as a musical carrier, the smartphone has today taken over the role of the box full of CDs or, who knows, cassettes. The useful use of the smartphone as a tool or music carrier while driving, of course, we do not want to make it impossible. In more modern and especially in more expensive cars, these functions are also taken over by an in-car system, whether or not linked to the personal smartphone. We do not want to make the older or more democratic version of cars where such in-car systems are not available impossible. However, it should be avoided that the device starts to swing around in the AudiTT. Therefore, we include in the definition the provision that the device must be placed in a holder if it is used for that limited number of functions. We have had a lot of discussions about the definition. A lot of slopes have passed. We finally came to the text before us: "Unless the vehicle is stationary or parked, the driver must not use, hold or manipulate an electronic device with a screen without being attached to the vehicle in a container intended for that purpose." I can assure you that every word has been discussed for a long time and may still be discussed, but the objective is very simple and clear: as a driver, we keep our hands on the wheel and eyes on the road. The device can only be used functionally in the holder or the in-car system takes over. In this case, the in-car system, whether or not connected to the mobile phone, may be used to charge on the center console. I say this explicitly because after the media reports in December we were asked whether the mobile phone was not used at the time, but that should be seen as the use of the in-car system. The same applies to a smartwatch. It is not intended to take off the smartwatch before one gets behind the wheel. This definition also does not aim to target medical applications. There are apparently insulin measuring devices that sometimes have to be used in motion. This is crucial for the health of the driver. That is not endorsed by this amendment of the law. Mobiles, smartphones and other devices can only be used functionally for short call, as a gps, as a music carrier and certainly not for texting, reading or writing, whether it is mail, Messenger, whatsapp or SMS. Remember that football field. One drives more than 100 meters blind when one looks at the screen for five seconds. British research shows an increase in response time by as much as 35% in texting. That's 14% more than the effect of cannabis use. This is even 23 % longer than the effect when driving under the influence of alcohol. So the influence is devastating. The influence of texting behind the steering wheel increases the reaction speed which provides direct and crucial traffic safety. In that sense, it is also logical that we adjust the punishment. The proposal before us increases the penalty or the amount of the immediate collection from EUR 116 to EUR 174. This is the result of a logical shift from the second to the third category of traffic offences. Today there are 4 levels to this categorization. The first degree means unwanted behavior. The second degree means indirect accident risk that is created. The third degree is the direct accident risk created. The fourth degree talks about inevitable accident risk. I think we agree that if you look at a message at five seconds, many messages will take more time, especially if they are tucked in and people drive 100 meters blind, you can no longer talk about an indirect accident risk. This is a direct risk and in that sense, the shift from category 2, which was decided at the time when it was still about not hand-free calling behind the wheel, to category 3 now that the focus is mainly on texting behind the wheel, makes sense. In this way, we will end up with the immediate collection of EUR 174. I can see Mrs. Vindevoghel watching. Although this 174 euro is still only half of the same fine in the Netherlands, some call it unreasonable, some call it a knocking-off on the man's hood, some call this money defrauding the poor motorist to harden the state cash. Nonsense, of course. The goal is that nothing must be paid by the same common man. It is not the intention that this change should generate more money for the government, on the contrary. The aim is to scare drivers more strongly to use the smartphone behind the wheel and thus to record fewer offences and, above all, fewer accidents. By the way, fewer accidents are much more profitable for society and government than additional fines, and not just in pennies. When this issue came up in recent months, I noticed that many people are well aware of the risks. A lot of people told me that I am right, that it is dangerous and that it is still being done itself, that it would be better to deal with it more strictly, because it is so difficult to let go. That's also apparent from research. For example, Dutch research indicates that 66% of drivers cannot refrain from using it, while three quarters of the same drivers consider it dangerous themselves. So the awareness is there, the behavior still isn't or still isn't. A little push, a realistic entanglement, as we are now proposing, can make a difference. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, digital devices have evolved enormously over the past decades. It is no longer a simple portable phone, as is still in the road code today. It's not just a phone call in the hand anymore. The temptation to be distracted from traffic by the aircraft has only increased over the past two decades. We are making this proposal for a definition of mobile phone usage adapted to today's reality. The classification of the infringement in the fine category is also adapted to that reality. Blindly passing a football field, creates direct danger. Do we solve the problem of smartphone use behind the wheel in one go? No, of course not, there will also have to be further action on these other issues: prevention and awareness, technological solutions and, above all, more enforcement, by our police services, but also by the most modern techniques, with respect for individual rights. Every day 16 Europeans die. Every year we have to say goodbye to 50 Belgians, often young people. 2,500 injured, young people, older people, fathers, mothers, family members become involved in an accident. All this only because the driver involved couldn't resist looking at the screen for a moment, even for five seconds. Colleagues, we need to work on that. With this proposal, we are taking steps to do so. Hands on the wheel, eyes on the road, that's the essence of this story. Finally, I would like to thank all those who contributed to this bill, the staff, the committee secretariat, the services of the Chamber, the translation, anyone who has given advice, directly or indirectly, in writing or during the hearings. I should also like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Vandenbroucke, who co-signed the proposal, for the other colleagues, who have been very constructively discussing this proposal in committee, across the boundaries of majority and opposition. I therefore hope for broad approval, later on in the final vote, so that we can move a stone in the river towards safer traffic in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u82	Madam President, we have already had this discussion in committee. Of course we think the use of mobile phones in the car is dangerous. That must be regulated and monitored, for everyone's safety, as the previous speaker said. We will support everything that is prevention, which is sensitisation, and certainly everything that is technological progress in this area. This is a good approach for us to ensure that people do not crash in traffic. However, we have problems with the level of punishment. We have already said this in committee. I wonder whether we should push people into poverty to promote road safety. That's not supposed to happen, is it? We have talked a lot about the rising energy bill this afternoon. The increase from 116 euros to 174 euros is a serious increase. For someone who has an income of 6,000 euros, that's peanuts. Maybe someone like that wouldn't have a problem with that and keep calling the wheel. Whereas for someone who has a low income, for example an auxiliary, it is of course different. For such a person, 174 euros is a lot of money. Why is it always that arbitrary increase in fines? We have already had this discussion. It seems like an automatism to increase the penalty every time. Poverty organisations also have a lot of problems with this. They point out that people in poverty are often less aware of the legislation in force and that people in poverty do not have the modern cars that have a wireless calling system, that people in poverty can hardly call legal advisers, and therefore rarely appeal against a conviction. The linear increase in traffic fines strengthens the inequality in our country. The linear increase in traffic fines thus strengthens the inequality in our country. For those who have little, such a penance is a much more severe punishment than for those who have a high wage. It would be much better to impose fines according to their ability. Such income-dependent fines are not fantasy: 12 European countries already apply them. They are also often called daily fines and have a much better preventive effect than a fixed amount. They are called daily fines because one looks at the income per day power of the offender. For example, the penalty for calling behind the wheel can be one day's pay. A proportional fine thus corresponds to the financial position of each individual The fixed fines work in two directions. For some of the population, these fixed fines are so low that they do not affect them in practice, but another part of the population is disproportionately affected by them. If we were to apply the daily system, a minister caught driving with a mobile phone in his hand would be fined EUR 330, while a retired seamstress would have to pay only EUR 45 for the same offence. This proposal is an idea that we want to launch in the debate on traffic fines. I do not think that we cannot separate this proposal from all the other proposals concerning the automatic camera systems and the associated automatic penalty systems. The PVDA has repeatedly warned against the privatisation of our road safety policy. In Flanders it is already so: private firms lobby the local authorities to organise route checks themselves on the municipal roads. In addition, they act unethical. For example, they contract that traffic thresholds and other speed limiting infrastructure should be avoided, so that they can identify a maximum number of traffic offences. So they want to achieve a maximum return with a minimum investment. This bill too will soon make it easier for these companies to issue fines, I hope we are aware of that. The private sector cashes 24 euros per offense and takes care of the local authorities, says the sales pitch. Under the GAS Act, local authorities can then spend the income on their own. They do not even need to be spent on road safety anymore. The money from the traffic fines can then be used for very different things in the municipality, for example to finance a swimming pool. Citizens expect the government to intervene in terms of road safety, but also to protect them from the profit appetite of companies, as they also expect their privacy to be respected and not to end up in a police state. I'm rounding up. If the government chooses to hit the perpetrator in the wallet, it shouldn't be arbitrary for us. The inequality has never been so great. A system of punishment that strengthens inequality even more loses all legitimacy. Only fair measures can increase the support for enforcement, and all others further undermine it. That is why we are opposed to the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u83	Madam President, distraction is a very important cause of road accidents. Honestly, we all know that: a message or a Whatsappy comes in on the phone and people check whether it's important or not. That quick look, soon takes a few seconds when the eyes are no longer on the road. A few seconds in traffic can be fatal, they can mean the difference between life and death. The figures have already been quoted by Mr Van den Bergh. Today, the use of a mobile behind the wheel is already prohibited, both by Article 8.4 of the Road Code which states that a driver should not use a portable phone that he controls or by Article 8.3 which states that a driver should always be able to steer. Unfortunately, in practice, we find that these articles are difficult to enforce. What should one do with a smartphone on the lap while someone is steering? It is only right that we should make the rules clear to everyone. If someone drives a vehicle, they keep their hands on the wheel and their eyes on the road. Calling in the AudiTT can still be done, but only if the phone is securely attached to the vehicle. That is much clearer and much easier to maintain. The Open Vld Group therefore supports this clarification of the road code. We clearly included in the coalition agreement the ambition to aim for zero road deaths. To do so, we need to take everything out of the box to increase road safety at all levels of policy. Local authorities also do this and place itinerary checks, not to pay for a pool but also to increase road safety. It is an objective that we must pursue at all levels. In doing so, we need to start with the biggest risk factors, such as speed, resource use and distraction. I would therefore like to thank the author and colleagues for this initiative. Open Vld will therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u84	Mr Van den Bergh has explained in detail what this is about. We are talking about a minimum of 50 deaths and 4,500 injured every year in Belgium, just because we are unable to keep our eyes on the road while we are behind the wheel. It's about cell phone usage, calling behind the wheel, using smartphones, iPads and iPads mini with which we swipe and scroll, control our social media, which we use to find the way and so on. All the groups here claim to stand up for more road safety. All groups agree with the two assumptions behind the bill. First, 20 years after legislation has been introduced, mobile phones behind the wheel are a phenomenon that has become much wider and more diverse due to the emergence of the smartphone, the iPad and the iPad mini. It is therefore logical that we modify, broaden and entangle the definition of what mobile phones are behind the wheel. All the groups here have said that they agree that it has a direct impact on the lives of other road users if you take your eyes away from the road. Mrs Vindevoghel, we do indeed have a system of fines that makes a distinction between behaviour on the road that indirectly endangers other people and behaviour with which you do so directly. At least 50 dead and 4500 injured, I believe that this is more than convincing enough to increase the use of the mobile behind the wheel from the second to the third category of offences. We must also add the consequence that this is subject to a higher fine, otherwise there is absolutely no point. I also find it striking, Mr Vindevoghel, how you have been distracted from the subject in a debate on distraction on the road. You have shook the increased energy bill out of your sleeve and you have started talking about route checks, but that word is not even in the bill, that has nothing to do with it. You use that to try to explain why the PVDA will vote against this bill, why road safety doesn't really interest the PVDA. You're using a misdemeanor around income inequality that has nothing to do with road safety. I'm gonna finish my reasoning. Poor or rich, everyone is equally responsible for the lives of other road users when they go on the road. The danger caused by whatsap behind the wheel is as great as being poor or rich...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u85	(...) Mr Vindevoghel, I would like to finish my reasoning. Poor or rich... Poor or rich, anyone can perfectly avoid a fine by sticking to the rules. It's not too much to ask to keep your eyes on the road, is it? I find it incomprehensible that some claim to be in favour of more road safety while missing the opportunity to support a legislative proposal with a direct positive impact on road safety, as all the advice provided shows.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u86	Mr Vandenbroucke, thank you for allowing me to interrupt. We want a debate on how much an offender should pay. You are avoiding that debate. We're talking about inequality. Someone with a lot of money is wiping his feet at the ban, because he still has enough money to pay fines. Things like that happen. You can't tell the difference. Whoever has a lot of money can ignore the ban on cell phone use squarely. For those who have no money, the consequences of a fine are much greater. If you don't see that, you're living in another world. That's all I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u87	Mrs Vindevoghel, I find it funny that it seems to bother you that I am defending a legislative proposal in a plenary debate, which seems to me to be the essence of democracy and politics. I blame you for bringing in elements that have nothing to do with the legislative proposal. In relation to the essence of your speech, the relationship between income inequality and road safety, I say that there is no direct relationship. The responsibility of road users for other road users is the same for everyone. In addition, everyone has the same opportunity to avoid fines, which is simply to comply with the rules. We are talking today about an important ban in the road code, namely on the use of electronic devices such as mobile phones behind the wheel. This problem will result in at least 50 deaths and 4,500 injuries. I note that the PVDA is opposed to a bill which seeks to bring down this scandalously large human toll. I note that the PVDA likes to talk about road safety, but if we really want to do something about it, the party does not give up at home, let alone that its Members have already put forward proposals themselves. There have not yet been any in this legislature. One element that I consider very important, like Mr Van den Bergh, is enforcement. It is good that the definition is updated. It is good that we have made the use of an electronic device behind the wheel a third category offence with a clearer, higher consequence in the form of a fine for everyone, but enforcement is, of course, the final piece. We can go around the pot for a long time, but if the coalition agreement states that we would make this a top priority, just like the maintenance of alcohol and speed, the other two major killers in traffic, then we can't but look at modern techniques, at camera techniques, so that we can control more people for that dangerous behavior. It's not supposed to be able to catch more people, to fine more people. The aim of more controls is to discourage more people from being distracted by their mobile phones or smartphones and thus make traffic safer for everyone. I am convinced - and this is also reflected in the opinions we have received on legislative proposals from myself and Mr Van den Bergh - that we can do so with the full respect for the privacy of everyone and with respect for the protection of the data that they record. I also refer to foreign examples, including the Dutch example. I hope that the pilot projects announced by the Ministers for Justice, Home Affairs and Mobility in the road safety plan will be launched quickly and that all those who are voting in favour of this proposal today will have an open look at the results so that we will soon be able to give a final say to the proposed initiative, of which Mr Van den Bergh is the first applicant. I thank him for that. I have been very enthusiastically supporting the bill from the start, because I believe it is more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1776/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1776/4) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u91	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 2314: Vicky Reynaert, Christophe Lacroix, Kattrin Jadin, Samuel Cogolati, Els Van Hoof, Marianne Verhaert, Wouter De Vriendt.. - 2245: Sophie Rohonyi, François De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u92	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2314/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2314/5) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the rule of law and women's rights in Poland and the defence of the foundations of the European Union". The title was changed by the Commission to "Proposal for a resolution on the rule of law and women's rights in Poland and the defence of the foundations of the European Union." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs, Ms Kattrin Jadin and Mr Guillaume Defossé, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with the rule of law element in the proposal and Mr Depooster will deal with the section on abortion. First of all, I would like to explain how this resolution was drawn up. Mr Rohonyi had already tabled a resolution on the termination of pregnancy. In our committee we noted that the proposal on the rule of law in Poland was linked to Mrs Rohonyi's proposal. Our group thought that this was agreed. We were therefore surprised when we heard in committee that Mr Rohonyi had not been contacted on this matter and that she was not involved in this decision. This wasn't exactly surprising. After all, the new version of the majority resolution was virtually a copy-paste of Mr Rohonyi's proposal, which meant that the title 'the rule of law in Poland' no longer covered the load. However, according to the majority, Mr Rohonyi was able to sign on to certain items afterwards. This shows once again that the new political culture of the majority is sometimes far-fetched. I would like to make a second preliminary remark. The Committee on External Relations sometimes rightly points the finger at certain countries or parts of the world when they mishandle certain issues. However, when European Commissioner Didier Reynders came to Parliament to discuss the report on the rule of law in Belgium, few members of the majority were present. I think it is necessary to wipe out the door before pointing the finger at others. With regard to the content of the present motion for a resolution, it is clear that Poland is concerned about its sovereignty. To know that one does not have to be a great scientist. I think it is important for each Member State to retain sovereignty and individuality within European cooperation. It is not for nothing that the motto is 'unit in diversity'. This, of course, makes European cooperation so unique. Poland is concerned about the demarcation between European competences on the one hand and Polish competences on the other. That is a legitimate concern. Of course, Poland has joined the European Union, and if this is done, it means that we support European law, the acquis communautaire, as well as European values and standards. There can certainly be no doubt about that. For our group, it is important that the European Member States respect European values and standards. One proof of this is that the European group to which the N-VA belongs has supported the procedure to activate Article 7 against Poland. However, we must pay attention to gratuite accusations. I asked questions about this in committee, but I never got an answer. For example, the resolution states that the erosion of the Polish rule of law, I quote, also has a direct impact on Belgium, Belgian companies and Belgian nationals. In the case of tender files and commercial disputes with Polish partners, Belgian entrepreneurs must fight politicised justice which gives priority to nationalist interests rather than EU legislation and even local legislation." I think that's a pretty serious accusation. We have once joined Flanders Investment and Trade to see if there are indeed complaints from Polish entrepreneurs who point that out. The FIT is certainly not aware of this. If such matters are to be included in a resolution, care must be taken to ensure that they are supported. I have asked this on more than one occasion in committee, but I have not received an answer. Another comment on this type of initiative is the following. We must avoid the idea that the European Union is working with double standards and two weights in the outside world. However, I fear that it will be difficult to deny that this is the case. For example, think about what the European Union is doing in relation to what happened in Catalonia. She's not doing anything. There's a deafening silence about that. Remember the way the Spanish police raged against people who participated peacefully in a referendum. The Spanish police shot at those people with rubber bullets, which made it very clear that they had no armed intention whatsoever. Think of the democratically elected Catalan politicians who have spent years in a Spanish prison. It seems that this can be done in the European Union. If we want to respect the principles of the rule of law effectively, and we must honour them, then we can ask serious questions about that silence. So yes, we must opt for the principles of the rule of law to be respected in each Member State. And yes, if these principles are in jeopardy, we must act against them. However, we must do so jointly, in relation to each Member State where such violations occur, and not work with double standards and two weights. Another not insignificant remark: what this resolution calls for is, in fact, a bit of a horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse. Very clear agreements have been made within the European Council. I checked with Prime Minister De Croo and with European Commissioner Reynders. In those agreements, Belgium explicitly agrees to await the Court of Justice's ruling on the possible linking of the rule of law and the Article 7 procedure before taking any action. This resolution is putting these agreements on her shoulders. The Advocate General's Opinion is now available. That is a positive opinion in the sense that it could indeed be. We can expect the Court of Justice's ruling soon, but pacta sunt servanda, it is important to wait for it, as agreed. Also important for us is something that is mentioned in the resolution, namely that there is a link between the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, and the payment of European funds on the one hand and the rule of law on the other. It is not possible for us to support states which have failed to comply with the rule of law by European means. There can be no doubt about that. Because of, and only because of, the agreement to wait for the judgment of the Court of Justice before taking any further action, our group will abstain from the vote. As has been said, Mr Depoorter will continue to address the part relating to the termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak here about this text, which is important because it reaffirms the values for which we are fighting in the European Union and expresses our concern about the abuses and abuses that we have been able to observe in Poland for several years. This resolution is concerned about the deterioration of the rule of law in Poland, but I would like to emphasise in particular the issues related to sexual and reproductive rights and the rights of LGBTQI people, who are, more than ever, in danger in this Member State which has yet to join the European Union with knowledge of the common values that bring us together. As we say and repeat, the rule of law is fundamental to the protection of women's rights. They are always the first victims when we attack the rule of law. Simone de Beauvoir said: "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will suffice for women's rights to be called into question." I think she was, unfortunately, right. The example before us is eloquent. At the European Parliamentary Forum on Sexual and Reproductive Rights held in Warsaw in October, our assemblies were represented by Mrs de Laveleye for the Chamber and Mr. Van de Wauwer for the Senate. They met with lawyers who were campaigning for the rule of law and who stood up against political machos. They told them that they were a direct link between targeted attacks on the independence of judges, and hence the rule of law, and attacks on the rights of migrants, attacks on the rights of LGBT people and attacks on women's rights. Today, women in Poland cannot, so to speak, abort. The use of contraception was difficult and the fight against violence was threatened. I would also like to welcome the work of Mrs Rohonyi, who had tabled a specific text on the subject. In the end, we did not start from her text, but rather from the broader text presented by Mrs Reynaert, which we have enriched with her concerns. But Mrs Rohonyi presented an important text. And I believe that having a specific text on women's rights in Poland makes sense. It could clearly have been treated as such. We have worked differently, but I think we should welcome his initiative. Finally, the resolution mentions this, but it seems important to stress this: the federal government, at the initiative of Secretary of State Sarah Schlitz and Minister Frank Vandenbroucke, grants resources to Polish women who need an IVG. If financial support remains modest, it literally serves to "save the future of women" who live 1,000 kilometres from home. The diplomatic weight of this decision is great. This is a more than symbolic example because it is essential and we hope to see other European countries follow. To conclude my speech on the rights of LGBT people in Poland, I would also like to point out that Parliament has already dealt with the issue following the establishment of anti-LGBT or non-LGBT zones on Polish territory. A motion for a resolution co-signed by my colleague Simon Moutquin on these areas in Poland was adopted on 17 June 2020 and voted on 7 July 2020 in plenary. We are therefore in continuity with our work, as, unfortunately, Poland is in continuity with its policy of degrading the rule of law and protecting minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. It is with conviction but also with concern that we will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are led to vote on an important text on the fundamental values of Europe. Europe is not a virtual entity, it is an entity composed of men and women who share a common project, an economic project, a project which should be much more social and much more environmental, a project of foreign policy which should be much more inclusive and progressive. But it is also a project of human values and respect for fundamental rights. However, when we see the situation in Poland, we have been very far away for some years now from respect for the rule of law. In checking the case, I realized that the European Court of Human Rights has so far recorded 57 complaints, mainly of Polish judges who have been victims of the reforms. It ruled on four occasions that the composition of the Constitutional Court was unlawful and that there were clearly serious legal and legal problems in Poland. The European Court of Human Rights even ruled that the Supreme Court was no longer an independent and impartial tribunal established by law and that the dismissed judges had been deprived of their right of access to a court. I say this because I hear some of them – who certainly do not paint an euphoric portrait of Poland – that seem to find extenuating circumstances in Poland. There are no extenuating circumstances for a State which, in its everyday activities, defiles constitutional legality and defiles the fundamental rights of its own citizens and European citizens in general. The text we are talking about today, for my group and for all the Members who will support it, puts the very foundations of European democracy at the heart of our institution's debates. We must not forget that the European Union has been founded on values of respect for human dignity, freedom, equality, values of respect for the rule of law and human rights, including the protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities. For my group, these values should be common to all Member States, in a society that is characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. In recent years, however, policies in some European countries have flouted these values set out in the European Treaties and in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is particularly the case in Poland, where increasingly conservative measures have been taken for months by the ruling nationalist conservative party, the party which, curiously, is called Law and Justice. This is still a paradox, since it should be the party of the Rightless and the Injustice. But I'm not going to do Polish semantics. I don't know enough about Polish. I don't know him at all and I'm not going to get into this perilous exercise. As soon as a few weeks ago, the European Commission announced that it had opened infringement proceedings against Poland, following a decision of its constitutional court – illegal, recalls the European Court of Human Rights – which challenged the primacy of European law over national law. Already a year ago, the Polish Constitutional Court had validated a further tightening of the abortion law by prohibiting abortion in case of malformation of the foetus. As a reminder, this legislation was already one of the most restrictive in Europe. I will also recall the attention we need to pay to LGBTQI+ people, threatened in this country where since 2019, 80 cities have declared themselves free of LGBTQI+ ideology. Indeed, when we are LGBTQI+, it is because we are convinced by an ideology that is imposed on us from where, by I do not know who, and which contains statutes. It is certainly necessary to be a member, or contributor, or sympathizer, to be part of LGBTQI+ ideology. This is where we are in the highly intellectual thinking of the authorities of these 80 cities who have declared themselves free from this ideology! This conservative current and the consequences of it – I am not chewing my words – are a real shame for Europe. That is why we strongly support this text proposed by Vicky Reynaert, which we would like to congratulate. Together with others, we are a co-author of this text, but Vicky Reynaert is at the core. It is time and time for Europe to take up these issues, for the payments of the recovery plan to be conditioned and for the European mechanism for the defence of the rule of law to be set in motion. We are not part of Europe by selecting what is right for us and rejecting what is wrong with us. You don't go into the European club like you go into a restaurant and choose one dish instead of another because you like meat and not fish. In short, we are a member of the European Union because we have deep convictions in terms of respect for the fundamental rights of the human beings who make up it and not just economic convictions. We will therefore vote resolutely on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is a very broad criticism of government policy in Poland. In the first instance, it concerned only domestic judicial reforms. As may happen here in Parliament, the proposal was supplemented by criticism of the Polish abortion law in the form of 28 amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the authors, the independence of the Polish judiciary is at stake and the rule of law is at stake. According to the spirit of the proposal, Poland would even shake the whole of the European legal order. Firstly, it is laughable for us to see how easy and misplaced indignation in the proposal on another EU Member State is talking about the rule of law. Belgium is very unsuitable to point the moralist finger towards Warsaw. In the resolution, there is a conflict between the highest courts in Poland and the Polish Government. What is the situation, however, with the separation of powers in Belgium? We also have a politically appointed Constitutional Court. The list contains no less than twelve politically appointed judges. I am not yet talking about the dozens of politically appointed emeriti and honorary members. Just recently, Walloon budget minister Jean-Luc Crücke of the MR announced his resignation to trade his post for a seat in the Constitutional Court. Is this constant Belgian political appointment carousel in the highest court a model of an independent legal system? No, the highest court here is not independent of our executive power either. Moreover, Belgium is faced with the problem of a completely hollowed-out legislative power, which is the extension of the government. At least that is the case for the parliamentary majority. The parties in the government majority are turning every legislative proposal through the purple-green mill. We still have to see the fact that there would be a majority vote in Parliament. Parliamentarians here do not think against the majority of the population in terms of their own convictions and their supporters, let alone the people, but only in terms of the slavish implementation of the coalition agreement. Too often the majority representatives serve as applause and voting machine instead of exercising their democratic and critical control over the executive. These are the problems of Belgian participation, which are well known to every serious political scientist. There is also a problem with judicial activism in Belgium. There are numerous examples of judges, who, by their overly creative interpretation of the law, sit on the chair of the legislator and make laws instead of applying laws. I mentioned this in committee. Think of the judgment of the Mechelen court on the banner with Stop Islamization of Voorpostactivists. In the interpretation of the court, this was inciting racism and discrimination and therefore punishable. Every reasonable person can see that this is an intention process, because stop Islamization simply means stopping the increasing influence of Islam in society. However, the judge decided differently and his ruling may in turn be a precedent for future court cases. More recently, the Hoeyberghs case, in which a person was sentenced to 10 months' imprisonment for vulgar toy talk and five years' dismay from his civil rights. In the light of the mockery imposed on ethnic group rapists in this country, this can only be called ideological justice. Thus, one is not punished if women hate is part of his foreign culture or religion, but if one sells dirty and vulgar talk as Fleming. That is the message the legal system in Belgium sends to the people. There is a hypersensitivity of judges to political correctness, which gives one a higher penalty for a much smaller offense or even for something that should not be punishable, if one has the wrong background or conviction. I appeal to all this to clarify that Belgium is also faced with a problematic separation of powers. Neither the law nor the legislative power is independent of the government here. It is therefore very pretentious to call from Belgium for sanctions against Poland because of the so-called rule of law. In addition, there is the issue of the incompatibility of the Polish constitution with some of the articles in the European Treaties and the Polish Constitutional Court's ruling on the primacy of national law to EU law. This case is misinterpreted by the applicants. The Polish Constitutional Court did not consider that the Polish Constitution or national law should prevail at all times, but that the Union should not exceed the limits of its competence, which is conferred on it by the Member States. EU law takes precedence only where the Union can exercise supranational powers. Where Member States exercise powers, it is, of course, national law that prevails. To announce that Poland is undermining EU law by defending national sovereignty and not always slavishly following the EU's dictates is therefore unfair. The Union is not dominant in all policy areas. Fortunately, in many areas, the national law of the Member States is still primary. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Polish abortion policy is concerned, the fact that Poland opts for strict legislation on abortion, where abortion is only legal incest, rape or when the mother's life is in danger, is a sovereign choice. We do not speak out for or against this abortion legislation. Today, however, we will defend the sovereignty of European nation states such as Poland to make our own choices in the ethical and moral field. Although there are European resolutions and convictions on Polish abortion law, abortion remains a part of public health policy. It is therefore still a purely national competence. The Union cannot therefore sanction Poland without interpreting abortion as an absolute women's right or human right. As you know, abortion law is not absolute and there are certain restrictions on everything. If Poland were to ban abortion completely, it would indeed be contrary to a number of international and European conventions, but that is not the case. The proposal gives the impression that the right to abortion in Poland no longer exists, but has the right to abortion in Poland really been annulled? Does it suddenly no longer exist since the legislation of 27 January 2021 is in force? Is it true that there is an actual ban on abortion in Poland? No. As mentioned above, women can still call for abortion in incest, rape and when their lives are in danger. It is therefore wrong to ban abortion in Poland, but it is subject to strict limits. Once again, we do not judge this Polish policy, but we do judge European interference and that of the left-wing liberal parties on the sovereign policy of a European Member State. Poland can and should advocate strict legislation on abortions. If the Polish Constitutional Court finds that the Polish Constitution is incompatible with the right to abortion when a fetus shows certain deviations, then who are we to interfere? Our vision of abortion is not blissful. In Belgium, women's rights appear to weigh on the child's rights. In Poland other choices are made, based on national identity and culture, in which Christian thinking is still strongly present. Let us respect this European diversity instead of pushing all Member States through the progressive mold with hysterical sanctions from the European Commission and the Court of Justice. 'Unit in diversity' was also a slogan of the EU. This diversity also exists in the view on ethical issues. There is also criticism of the strict Polish migration policy. This is perhaps one of the main reasons for the ongoing attacks on countries such as Poland. As far as we are concerned, we should take an example instead of cutting back on the sovereign choice of a country to defend its borders. Different Member States make different choices. Poland is not alone in that. Look, for example, at the much more conservative line in Malta, where abortion is simply completely forbidden, or Andorra, where abortion is only allowed when it is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman. Then why do we always talk about Poland? Again, perhaps because the European Union and the proposers of the proposal want Poland to be conformist, according to the liberal left-wing agenda. Most of the anti-Polish hysteria in Parliament is due to the fact that Poland does not allow itself to be dictated by unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. We will always support that attitude. Our group therefore concludes that the present proposal on the rule of law in Poland and the Polish abortion policy is mainly hypocritical. Does the Union not sanction countries such as Poland, because they face a different culture than the progressive bureaucrats and elites in Western Europe? Does the Union not sanction them before, because they advocate a completely different migration policy and a different vision of identity? If the EU were consistent in its condemnation of the rule of law, it would have been Spain, among other things, which has already been mentioned here, for a long time before the detention of Catalan political prisoners or the fact that the Spanish CNI intelligence service would even be involved in the Barcelona terrorist attacks in 2017. However, when it comes to Spain, it suddenly sounds a completely different tone from the EU's cenacles. In that case, national sovereignty is an argument for Brussels to leave Member States alone and suddenly it is about an internal issue. Belgium supports that hypocrisy. Apparently, one Member State is not the other. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the political situation in Poland has been worrying us and not only since yesterday, but in recent years. In fact, we could assume that each government has, of course, the right to pursue a policy consistent with its ideological orientations, based on the results of an election or a government agreement, what is more normal? But this assertion is, in fact, meaningless if we think carefully about all the international norms and conventions that govern public life. As a convinced Democrat and Liberal, I do not regret that our leaders take into account, in their decisions, international legal norms on the rule of law, on the protection of values, on the defence of freedoms of expression of beliefs or on the protection of privacy, a government cannot, in the name of the ideology that guides it or of the challenges that it faces, wipe out a number of legal principles. That's my opinion! The crisis of the covid, in which data protection is mistreated, is a rather illustrative example. Ladies and gentlemen, the European legal framework, the successive treaties and its secondary law are part of what a government, whose country is a member of the Union, must respect regardless of its government agreement or its philosophical principles. As a founding country of the European Union, Belgium must set an example by respecting standards and transposing them in time and in the spirit of the texts. I can also imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that we could do better and that, as other colleagues have also said, on certain fundamental principles of respect – I agree with what Didier Reynders, our former Foreign Minister, said on this subject – "there was also in Europe, but probably in certain areas in our country, subject to revision" and we must also be able to accept it. We are therefore also, beyond that, in a constant effort, that of respect which must make it possible to denounce what is considered to be a violation of European law by Poland today. That is the substance of this resolution. This concerns two countries (also Hungary) which, by their current governments - and I stress this point, it is the current governments because there is hope, elections are taking place and changes are still possible -, deny for the moment their commitment to European integration, a commitment formalized in 2004 which closed 45 years of communist lead. Madam President, it has been a number of years since the Polish Government adopted a position of error, a political error and legal error. On 13 January 2016, the European Commission announced that it would carry out an assessment of the situation in Poland in accordance with the rule of law framework. At the time, this decision was based on two reasons: firstly, the refusal of the Polish authorities to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, secondly, the law on public broadcasting. Instead of opening its eyes, the Polish government at the time continued to place the Constitutional Court under guardianship by a law of 22 July 2016 which severely limited its independence and made it de facto incapable of performing its function of monitoring the constitutionality of laws. The appointment of judges to the Government's pay was therefore also part of these grievances. Faced with the desire for dialogue expressed by the Commission and supported by the other 27 Member States of the European Union at the time, the Polish Government was unaware and still ignores the Commission's recommendations which extend to the entire Polish judiciary now under political supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that, five years later, the new version of the Polish Constitutional Court found the Treaty on European Union (TEU) and the European Convention on Human Rights to be particularly incompatible with the Polish Constitution. While we can regret that in 2016 and 2017, the Commission did not use the Article 7 procedure of the TEU, we must nevertheless stress here the firmness of the von der Leyen Commission, which took two very strong decisions. The first is the suspension of the approval of the Polish recovery plan with EUR 36 billion and, secondly, the opening of a procedure which could lead to a suspension of European funds, pursuant to the regulation on the conditionality of the budget. However, anyone who has taken and passed a course in European law knows that the primacy of European law has been affirmed since 1964 through the Costa v. ENEL judgment. The Court of Justice thus considered that, unlike the ordinary international treaties, the EEC treaty had established a legal order which could be incorporated into the legal system of the Member States at the time of entry into force of the Treaty and that it was binding on their jurisdiction. And to conclude that "this incorporation into the law of each Member State of provisions from Community sources makes it impossible for Member States to assert a national measure against a legal order which they have accepted on a reciprocal basis". This is a reminder of public international law. As a result of these founding judgments, the Court of Justice has built a whole line of case law which has made it possible to affirm and also refine the contours of the principle of primacy. Whether it has ruled on the rules of primary law - the Treaties - or secondary law - the legal instruments based on them, the Court of Justice has repeatedly repeated to the Member States and their highest courts that Union law prevails over national law, regardless of its consequences. It is with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, already mentioned by several colleagues, that this fundamental principle enters into the Treaties. I would add that the decision of the Polish judges does not simply call into question a European law or its interpretation by the Court of Justice. For the first time, Madam President, national judges question the provisions of a European Treaty that has already been ratified and applied for 13 years. There is therefore a difference of degree and also of nature which opens up destabilizing potential for the European Union as a whole, it must be stressed. Our Foreign Minister rightly pointed out in committee, on 20 October 2021, this change of dimension. It explained that this was the first time that a judicial body considered that the provisions of the European treaties were incompatible with the international Constitution. The position of the Polish Constitutional Court is just as serious when it rejects article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right to a fair trial before an independent, impartial tribunal established by law and states that the European Court of Human Rights does not have the competence to assess whether the Polish Constitutional Court fulfils this condition. Through this question, ladies and gentlemen, of the primacy of European law over national law, Polish national law in this case, we are confronted with a violation of the rule of law in Poland. Political judgements drawn up by political judges are in fact faced with the denial of the law, its transparency and its impartiality. It is a danger of legal insecurity which can also affect our fellow citizens who live or invest in Poland, as Mrs Reynaert rightly pointed out during the discussions we had in committee on this subject. In fact, these discussions were very interesting. Madam President, since the vote in the Committee on External Relations, the European Commission has therefore launched, on 22 December 2021, infringement proceedings against Poland because of the violation of European law by its Constitutional Court and because of its lack of independence and impartiality. Didier Reynders, our European Commissioner, was sceptical that the situation was not improving. The fundamentals of the European legal order, in particular the primacy of European law, were not respected when they were clearly to be respected. The infringement procedure may lead to a referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union and may go as far as financial sanctions, in particular through the Recovery Fund. The French Presidency of the Council of the European Union intends to organise on 22 February the hearing of Poland under the "Article 7" procedure in the General Affairs Council, before possibly taking a vote finding that there is a risk of a clear violation of the principles of the Union. We will therefore follow the development of this dossier with great concern but also with absolute firmness on the principles that we defend mainly in this House. We love the Polish people, but we cannot accept the political and legal practices of their government. These two messages must be clearly displayed, and I hope that this will be the case with the vote we will be expressing earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u98	This resolution deals with the fundamental values of the European Union. The European Union is founded on human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. This is stated in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. This seems to become more and more a USP in this world. These values are at the heart of the European identity and we cannot accept that they are being violated in any Member State. Yet that is exactly what has been going on in Poland for a number of years. Since 2017, at least five infringement proceedings concerning the rule of law have been brought before the European Court of Justice by the European Commission. Yet the country continues to rally one provocation to another. The importance of this resolution should therefore not be underestimated. I would therefore like to thank the applicant for bringing this resolution before the Chamber. It is important for our gremium to give its opinion on this. We need to use all possible means to put an end to the Polish violations of the rule of law. We have also clearly stated these resources in the resolution. This goes from extending the mandate from Article 7 to applying the conditionality mechanism linking European money to respect for the rule of law. At the same time, the importance of the European Court of Justice must be underlined. The importance of this is often referred to by several Member States. The Court is the guardian of the rule of law and continues to play a central role in this matter. We must continue to insist on the correct and complete execution of the sentences. We also call for attention to be paid to maintaining the unity of the European Union. We can't let them break us up. Of course, such resolutions are being looked at. We must continue to try to convince Member States such as Poland and Hungary of the importance of the rule of law and the European Union. The European Union is not something like Bancontact, one can freely use, some rights and principles must be respected. It is not a choice between fish or meat, as Mr Lacroix said, we must guarantee the whole package. Nor should we be blind to the fact that the sexual and reproductive health rights of women in Poland are drastically reduced. We therefore support the condemnation of this in this proposal. We call for a balance between the interests of women and those of the unborn child. There is no such thing in Poland at the moment. The European Court of Human Rights clearly stated that each Member State can draw up its own legislation, as the Flemish interest points out, but the Member States must respect it and follow it consistently. There is therefore a wide margin of discretion, but the balance must be maintained. In Poland, this balance has been completely disrupted. Poland is not consistently following its own legislation. In this respect, it is not surprising that Poland wishes to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. GREVIO, which oversees compliance with the Istanbul Convention, made it clear in his report that victims of rape in Poland do not have access to the right to abortion. In this way, Poland is doing lip service to legislation which is not in practice carried out. That's what we're up against. We therefore condemn the current policy in Poland, the legislative proposal adopted in Poland, and also the ruling of the Constitutional Court of Poland, which is politically constituted and used for political reasons, in order to exercise certain policy measures for the government. The resolution before us condemns both the erosion of the rule of law in Poland and the consequent deterioration of women's sexual and reproductive rights. For these reasons, our group can support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u99	The PVDA Group naturally endorses the spirit and agrees with the charges contained in this motion for a resolution. It is clear that the reactionary PiS government in Poland has been undermining the rule of law, democracy and also the fundamental rights of women for a long time. The restriction of the power of the Polish Constitutional Court to control the government in 2015; the replacement of all members of the Polish Court of Justice, who dismissed and appointed judges by government loyal agents in 2017; the politicised disciplinary chamber that judges can also sue and dismiss and who this year gave up the immunity of Judge Igor Tuleya, so that he can also be prosecuted for allowing the media to record a public hearing, the media law that forbids the opposition to enter the media, the examples are legion and one goes on and on. Furthermore, civil society is being sidelined and increasingly discriminatory laws are being introduced, such as recently the draconian anti-abortion legislation, which reduces the control of women over their own bodies and reproduction. We also believe that this is an unacceptable violation of their most fundamental rights. The way in which the current government attacks and excludes minority groups is also appalling. I would like to say nothing about the recent brutal and violent approach of asylum seekers at the borders. Ladies and gentlemen, as a consistent left-wing party, we naturally support the content and spirit of the motion for a resolution. However, we have serious doubts about the use of financial coercive means to enforce the objectives set out in the motion for a resolution. In practice, the holding up of funds from the European Relance Fund amounts to a financial penalty. History clearly shows that such financial means of coercion affect the working population in particular, rather than the regime. What is more, the people who are being protected by resolutions, namely the most disadvantaged groups, are being hit hardest. Indeed, in a rather reactionary and patriarchal state like today's Poland, that will mean that girls and women will also be affected. Moreover, let us not forget that Poland is one of the poorer countries, if not the poorest, of the European Union. With almost half of the German population, Poland's gross national product is only one sixth of German. A resolution which seeks to protect the human rights of girls and women and the democratic rights of the whole population cannot be expected to call for the withdrawal of the relay project, which would make the overall socio-economic situation of the population much worse. That is why we have voted against the amendments which seek to deny the resources of the European relaunch project to the Polish people. We will therefore abstain in the vote on the motion for a resolution, in which the requests remain. Let us also remember that the country and its people, who are already hard hit by the pandemic and the ensuing deepening economic crisis, are being denied support for the considerable amount of EUR 36 billion. The working population of Poland, like everywhere else, has kept and continues to do so during the pandemic and urgently needs the financial support of the relay fund. These resources should help the Polish population to recover from the sanitary and economic crisis by giving new impetus to the economy, to rebuild and or improve infrastructure and to contribute to, among other things, the sustainable energy transition. This does not mean that we are by definition opposed to sanctions against Poland if they are legally enforced by a ruling of the European Court of Justice. If Poland has joined a treaty, if Poland has joined the European Union and has endorsed a number of fundamental rights and values, then it is normal for Poland to be sanctioned by a ruling. This can be done in the way that it has already been done, a penalty payment imposed or the loss of voting rights in the European Council. Of course, the Polish Government can be brought to justice and given legal effect, but not by overplaying its hand and exceeding the target. The people, who are already suffering badly in the context outlined above, must not be hit again by denying them the relay package. We think that's a bridge too far. An important argument is that the nationalist and reactionary government in Poland partly acquires its legitimacy by always profiling itself as a little David versus Goliath. We are, of course, on the discourse of Polish sovereignty against the great evil Europe. By applying the nuclear option, by completely denying that support package and thus hitting the population hard, the popularity of the government will also just be fueled, we fear. I think we will achieve the opposite by taking that measure. For example, the government can even more profile itself as a victim, something that nationalists always play with. That would have the opposite effect of what the motion for a resolution is about. That is why our group will abstain in the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the clearest way to show what a rule of law means to us in everyday life is to remind us of what happens when there is no longer a rule of law. Those are not my words, but the words of former President Eisenhower. It is not unimportant to recall how our European Union was created and, above all, why it was established. Democracy, the rule of law, fundamental rights, things that have been taken for granted for so long, are not today. The rule of law means that the law must be enforced by an independent judiciary. That's one of the foundations. It means that the individual freedoms and rights of every citizen in the EU are recognised and respected and that recourse to legal protection is guaranteed. The independence of the judiciary is essential in a state of law. It's about the separation of powers. A victory at the ballot box does not mean absolute power. Independent courts that monitor respect for civil liberties are a crucial element, if not the essence, of a democracy. The judgments of the European Court of Justice must be respected by all. This is one of the conditions for membership of the European Union. This is one of the conditions for us to enjoy the benefits that the European Union offers us. Poland, when it joined the European club, endorsed these foundations. Denying them now is just not an option. One joins a club and accepts the rules. By undermining the rulings of the European Court of Justice or the independence of national courts, citizens are deprived of their fundamental rights. The rule of law is not optional in the European Union. He's a must. The rule of law must be defended by all political parties. The resolution before us condemns the recent attack on the European Court of Justice. European governments, such as the Polish, who are not prepared to respect the fundamental rules of liberal democracy, are undermining the European project. What is the way out of the impasse? We must listen to the message of the tens of thousands of Polish citizens who went out with the Polish and European flags. We therefore support the infringement procedure and the use of the rule of law conditionality by the European Commission. This conditionality has come about on the initiative of the European Liberals. She translates the slogan 'The European Union is not a worthless cash machine' into concrete actions. The resolution also condemns the strict legislation on abortion in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion in committee and also today, strange statements are made about abortion and the competence of so-called nation states. It concerns statements that I, as a liberal, shudder. Reference is made to the so-called sovereign identitarian choice of a government to deprive women and girls of their right to self-determination. The fact that this is still possible in 2022 is shocking. Let it be known once and for all that strict abortion laws do not reduce the number of abortions. They only increase illegal and dangerous abortions, which endangers women and girls' lives and health. The facts in Poland have already shown that. The death of 30-year-old Polish Isabella could have been avoided. The Polish people were right to react furiously. Tens of thousands of Poles came out with one very clear message: they have no right to decide about my life, my personal decisions and my future. We must support this message from young Polish women. It is impossible for us in the Union to accept that pregnancy, whether unwanted or not, is a danger to women. We in the Union cannot accept that a woman can no longer decide on her own body. We in the Union cannot accept that a government should exercise the right to decide on sexual and reproductive health and on the rights of women and girls. Finally, in the Union, we cannot accept that there are Member States which have doubts about the usefulness of combating gender-based violence and which are calling into question the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention. For us liberals, it is clear. One can never be a next union if women are not in charge of their own bodies. Our group will therefore fully support this resolution, this support for those tens of thousands of Polish girls and women, this support for Polish citizens who believe in the European project in a massive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the concrete reason for this resolution we tabled was the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal on 7 October 2021, which stated that the Polish national Constitution takes precedence over European law. That statement is very far-reaching. If the judgment is applied in practice, it means that the Polish Government has the right to interpret the European treaties and European law itself. This also means that the rulings of the European Court of Justice are no longer valid in Poland. That's problematic. That's worrying. That has been the reason for us to table this resolution. Because that also affects us, our society, our citizens, our businesses. First of all, without the framework of European law, our European internal market cannot function, because our companies that want to operate in Poland no longer have legal certainty. I have set an example in the resolution. That is the example that the colleagues of the N-VA were referring to in the debate just now. I have heard the arguments you have put forward, ladies and gentlemen. But in the full debate, you are ignoring the substance of the matter and the substance of the argument that we are arguing, namely that it creates legal uncertainty in a union with the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, which is a cornerstone of legal certainty and is also necessary in order to be able to act properly. I do not really understand why a liberal party can accept that. I regret that the debate does not address the substance of the matter. Secondly, without the framework of European law, our own rule of law and the independence of our justice will also be compromised. That is already the case, and we are seeing things emerging. I set the example in committee of a Belgian father, a daddy of a boy and a girl. The mommy took the kids to Poland. The father has been given custody of his children in Belgium, through a legal ruling. Normally, the ruling of a Belgian court is recognised in Poland. So, according to European agreements, these children must return to our country, but they will not. This is, of course, provided that a country decides not to respect treaties and European regulations and agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, there is more. If someone from Poland commits a crime here, we must be able to prevail, even if that person returns to his country. Today, however, we are no longer sure that this will happen if we decide not to comply with these European agreements. I do not understand why a party such as the Flemish Interest agrees with that. Let us be clear: if someone from another Member State commits a crime, he must be punished for us, even if he or she returns after another European Member State. Thirdly, without the framework of European law, human rights, such as the rights of women, children and Igbtqi, which are at the heart of our society and on which our society is built, are also at risk. These women's rights are being actively violated today. Mr Verhaert gave the example of the Polish Isabela, who died of a blood poisoning after the fetus had died in her womb. They are doctors who, fearing persecution under the rigid abortion law, have taken a wait-and-see attitude, which actually cost women their lives. However, the right to health care is a fundamental human right. How can we actually accept such a thing? How can we accept simply letting women die? In practice, that is what it is all about when we apply these laws so strictly. I have just heard the Flemish interest in defending Poland say that they have a different culture. One has to dare to say it. Laws that deny women access to health care and cause them to die... Let me be clear, that is not the culture we want to advocate. The confrontation on European law is, of course, part of a long series of conflicts between the Polish Government and the European Union on the far-reaching destruction of the democratic rule of law. That is, of course, what the resolution is about, because, at a rapid pace, the Polish government's PiS party, which is a member of the European Parliament's group of European Conservatives and Reformists, has taken various measures since its inception in 2015, which undermine the rule of law and, in particular, the separation of powers. Successive reforms increased the power of the executive over the judiciary and put the latter's independence at risk. I give a lot of examples of how that happened in the resolution, but one of the most serious cases is the establishment of a sanction chamber at the Polish Supreme Court and the establishment of a sanction law. When judges make decisions which the government does not agree with, they are simply dismissed and punished. That is very far-reaching, because the separation of powers so no longer exists. The Flemish Interest indicated that this is also the case in Belgium, referring to the Constitutional Court, but that comparison has been made completely, because in Belgium the immunity of judges cannot be lifted, their salary cannot be withdrawn and the judges cannot be dismissed if the government does not agree with their rulings, which is the case in Poland. In addition, human rights are reduced in a far-reaching way. This is indeed about the rights of LGBTQI individuals, but also, above all, about women's rights. During the period between the vote in committee and today, further developments have taken place which, of course, are not mentioned in the resolution, but which are nevertheless very worrying, such as the registration of pregnancies, so that the government can follow what is happening with them. Since we believe that a strong signal is needed, we have included a series of requests to the government in the proposal. That goes from the holding of funds from the Recovery Fund to the activation of the rule of law mechanism. It is true that the proposal goes beyond the position taken by the government in the framework of the European Council, but I do not understand why it is a problem if Parliament does so. We are not the government, we are independent of the government, whatever the Flemish interest has just claimed. Quod erat demostrandum [[.]] I do not agree with the PVDA's argument against this resolution. In a society there are rights but also duties. In this case, the obligations have been agreed in an agreement framework, a European partnership with legislation and treaties. These are matters that need to be respected, first and foremost because they are crucial for effective cooperation between the Member States, and secondly because they are also important for the Polish people themselves, because they are about respect for fundamental human rights. If nothing else should be said about this, if there is no response when human rights are violated, then we are actually opening the door to doing n'importe quoi. I understand the point that we must ensure that the wrong people are not affected, but I believe that this problem is addressed in our resolution. Request 5 of the resolution explicitly states that the European Commission is invited to use all the instruments at its disposal to prevent citizens and residents of Poland from benefiting from EU funding as a result of the current government's action and to explore ways in which financial resources can be provided directly by the Commission to final beneficiaries. Since this has not been the case so far, we are opening a new debate. I believe that this motion for a resolution removes the preservation of the PVDA. In addition, the resolution contains a whole series of requests concerning women, and in particular abortion, as this issue is so pressing. The current Polish legislation is so strict that virtually no woman can claim legal and safe abortion, even if the unborn child is seriously deformed. In practice, abortions are, of course, carried out. Estimates are based on around 200,000 women who either have an abortion carried out illegally or go abroad for an abortion. For this reason, Parliament supports our government policy that provides financial support for the collective Abortion Without Borders. The resolution contains an explicit request to examine whether our country can contribute in any other way to the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women, such as access to contraceptives. I think this is very important, even because we are the first Member State to give money to that organisation. So we are actually ahead of the European Union in that. I would like to thank colleagues from PS, Ecolo-Green, MR, Open Vld and CD&V for their support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group obviously supports this motion for a resolution. Indeed, we are in favour of the activation of Article 7 with regard to Poland and the conditionality of the multiannual budget with the rule of law. The human rights situation in Poland has been worsening for years. Since 2019, local authorities in the east and south-east of this country have adopted a provision against LGBT communities. The situation of women's rights was also of particular concern. The right to abortion is increasingly hampered. In addition, a bill was proposed to criminalize sex education in schools. During the year 2021, the Polish State repressed peaceful demonstrations, restricted the exercise of the right of asylum and prosecuted those who used their freedom of expression. Last October, the Polish Constitutional Court, at the request of the Prime Minister, affirmed the superiority of the Polish National Constitution over European law as well as the incompatibility between certain articles of the Treaties and national laws calling into question the primacy of Community law over the law of European Member States, even though this is a founding principle of the European Union. Poland is moving away from the fundamental values of the European Union, namely the rule of law, respect for human rights, respect for human dignity, freedom and justice. It's really time for this to stop! We cannot compromise our fundamental values. The European Union must send a strong and clear signal, not only to Poland, but also to Hungary. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the President of the European Parliament, David Sassoli, whose death we learned with emotion this Tuesday morning; a man whose strong values – which you recalled, Madam President, at the opening of this plenary session – were ultimately those of the European Union, namely solidarity, human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, justice, the rule of law, but also respect for human rights. These values, which are the cement of the European Union, must be respected by any State which wishes to enter the European Union, but also remain there. Unfortunately, this duty is increasingly forgotten by some. I am thinking in particular of the Czech Republic, Hungary or Poland. It is our duty to all of us, in the same way as we have a duty to look after it outside our borders. This is also solidarity between states and, in particular, between European citizens. For almost ten years now, I have seen my country of origin, Hungary, plagued by an ultra-conservative regime that violates the rights of all those who do not enter its small cells. Since the entry into power of the Polish Right and Justice Party, which, as Mr Lacroix rightly pointed out, is not in the right name, Poland unfortunately follows the same path. That is why I welcomed from the outset the tabling of Mr Reynaert's motion for a resolution. I can only share his feeling of consternation, which founded his text, but also his desire to transform our powerlessness into action to defend the rule of law in danger today in Poland, a rule of law which, as I said, has never been so mistreated as it is today. Because not everyone should be confused, ladies and gentlemen: there is a huge difference between following a particular ideological line, on the one hand, and openly attacking the fundamental democratic values of the European Union, on the other. In this regard, the decision of the Polish Constitutional Court of 7 October, which affirmed the primacy of the Polish Constitution over European treaties, was truly the coup de grace. Without the rule of law, and thus without the independence of justice, our fundamental freedoms are no longer guaranteed, especially those of the people who are moving away from this ultra-conservative social project that is being pursued by the ruling PiS party in Poland. I am thinking of journalists, judges, NGOs, migrants, LGBTQI+ but also women. That is why I tabled the same month last October a motion for a resolution dealing specifically with the right to abortion in Poland, one month before the majority's motion for a resolution where the question of abortion was almost absent, at least in its original form. This question, however, deserved and still deserves our greatest attention. Indeed, abortion in Poland today is no longer possible even in case of a serious irreversible anomaly of the foetus, or incurable disease potentially fatal to the foetus, since the Polish Constitutional Court has judged an IVG practiced in such a situation as "unconstitutional". This decision resulted in a de facto ban on abortion in Poland, since 98% of legal abortions in Poland were on the basis of one of these two cases. Other cases, which are still allowed in Poland, namely rape, incest or a threat to the health and life of the mother, are much rarer; and when one of them arises despite everything, for example the case of rape, the abortion is considered legal only if the victim woman obtains a certificate that attests that the pregnancy is the result of a criminal act, which happened only three times in 2019. In ten months, it was only 300 Polish women who had access to abortion services in hospitals, on the grounds that their life or health was actually at risk. This situation can have truly fatal consequences for women who are now subject to this legislation. A very concrete example: last September, a thirty-year-old Polish woman died of a septic shock. His doctors did not want to practice the abortion which could have saved his life, preferring to wait for the foetus to die, precisely because of the restrictions imposed by Polish law. Perhaps this will make Vlaams Belang reflect on this issue, which today sees no problem in the fact that a law within the European Union gives precedence to the hypothetical life of a foetus over the real life, in danger, of a woman. This may also make the Vlaams Belang think, who prefers waiting for a woman's vital prognosis to be engaged to respect her will. Women have thus clearly become the hostages, if not the targets, of justice in the hands of a government openly hostile to their rights, in particular the right to freely dispose of their bodies, to plan their pregnancy and motherhood, and thus ultimately their ability to emancipate. As a result, Poles travel illegally abroad for abortion, at least when they have the information or, again and more importantly, the financial means, while others have to abort on Polish soil in total hiding with all the resulting medical and legal consequences. It is true that this situation has prompted our government to intervene by supporting the NGO Abortion Without Borders and I very much thank the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities for this gesture, but it must be noted that this is still, alas, insufficient in the face of the extreme gravity of the situation, namely that violations of the right of women to dispose of their bodies in Poland are only multiplying. It is recalled that the Polish Minister of Justice announced in July 2020 that his country would simply withdraw from the Istanbul Convention, a convention that protects women from barriers to abortion, since these barriers have been recognized as violence against women and girls. I also have associations of cases that are just as intriguing as they are worrying. First of all, a text providing for the compulsory registration of all pregnancies in Poland, which would put all pregnant women under surveillance so that they could easily be prosecuted if they decided to terminate their pregnancy or even if they were to miscarriage. Secondly, another text providing for long sentences in case of imprisonment, in case of abortion; a text which, fortunately, was finally rejected but which shows how well the women who are aborted are in the line of sight of this government. As I said, all of this, in my view, justified the tabling of a motion for a resolution that is specific to the issue of abortion in Poland like the one that my party has tabled, a proposal that was aimed at condemning the policy on abortion that the Polish government is currently pursuing, or at supporting, as is the case today, the Polish civil society organisations that now guarantee access to sexual and reproductive rights. Finally, these requests, in any case part of them, were finally incorporated into the majority's amendments which were made to their own text and which, as I said earlier, initially dealt with infringements of the rule of law in Poland in a broader way. I am thinking in particular of infringement procedures at European level or of making the granting of European funds conditional on respect for the rule of law. I sincerely thank the colleagues of the majority for this, although at the outset, as has been said, I was completely excluded from this integration work. It is a lack of political class, as I said in committee, which I have allowed myself to regret. Finally, this has been corrected, but I still regret it. Not just for myself, but generally for the respect of our parliamentary democratic work and, in particular, for the work of the opposition. In doing so, I would like to avoid that whenever there is a text of the opposition that normally has priority because it was first tabled on the same subject, the majority takes advantage of it to take up the objectives contained in this text and incorporate them, by way of amendments, into the text of the majority, so that no more motion for a resolution from the opposition can thus be adopted. I also regret, as I said, that my requests were only partially integrated, since some of them, which I then had to propose in the form of amendments to the majority text, were ultimately not accepted. I am thinking, for example, of the establishment of a parliamentary delegation, composed of Members from all the countries of the European Union, to ensure that the situation of respect for fundamental rights in Poland, including women's rights, is kept under constant review, not on an ad hoc basis or as required by current events. I regret it all the more because it was a request made by Amnesty International during my meeting with its director in Budapest in August 2021, who was afraid, I think, that we would not end up losing sight of these issues that are so essential to our democracies. I am also thinking of the referral to the European Court of Human Rights in the context of an inter-State remedy. Of course, 12 applications were submitted by Polish women to the European Court of Human Rights. Nevertheless, we cannot wait for the outcome of these disputes and judgments to reflect on new actions to be taken at European and international level. We do not therefore have to wait for these judgments to act, especially when we know how much the Polish government is sitting on the rule of law and on the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A State request therefore had its full meaning. If the applicants were to be rejected, which I obviously do not wish to do, they could be rejected for reasons related to circumstances specific to their case and therefore totally unrelated to the Polish government's policy on abortion - a policy on which the European Court must be absolutely able to decide. I must therefore recall my regret that this House has not shown the same ambition as the European Parliament. Indeed, the latter adopted a specific resolution on "the de facto prohibition of the right to abortion in Poland", in which this right was not drowned, as it is in this text, among other issues. While some members of the majority welcomed the fact that they had been able to enrich their texts with considerations on the issue of abortion, this violation of women's rights deserved much more than the status of simple cherries on the cake of a much larger proposal. Indeed, like Muslim minorities in China, Christian minorities in the Middle East and women in Afghanistan, Polish women also deserved a text that was specially dedicated to them. Moreover, this request had been supported by the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique. In this respect, I would like to pay tribute to the intellectual honesty of my colleague Guillaume Defossé, who himself acknowledged it. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when a Maltese MEP, who is openly opposed to abortion, is running to take over the presidency of the European Parliament, it would have been even more sensible to show that this House intends to support Poles in gaining access to safe and medical abortions by means of concrete measures, of course, but also by recognition of their specificity. In conclusion, however, my group will support this motion for a resolution because we must defend the rule of law in Belgium and everywhere else. We must show solidarity with all our fellow Europeans in the same way that we must be intransigent towards all those who deny their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, you have just applauded Mr Rohonyi, but it is true that the drafting of the motion for a resolution is very special. Women's rights, reproductive or sexual rights are, of course, extremely important. Each group has underlined this, but you, as a majority, forgot to really name it in your motion for a resolution. That's too bad, and it's also striking. It's a given we all support and we all fight for. It is a right, as a woman, to assert those sexual or reproductive rights. When we look at the contraceptive atlas of Sensoa, we see that there is an effective problem and that access to contraception in Poland is completely red, whereas the rest of Europe is mainly green and orange, indicating better accessibility. The N-VA Group fully supports this right of women, and we would like to emphasise it very much. The fact that I am speaking separately also has to do with the fact that we consider this discussion extremely sensitive and important and that we should be able to conduct it in all serenity and honesty. I often have a double feeling, as I said in committee, in the requests that have been included in the motion for a resolution. I'll explain why. In their speech, colleagues Verhaert and Reynaert spoke very clearly about women's right to health care. I absolutely agree with that. The example of Isabella, the woman who died of sepsis because of a dead fetus, cannot be accepted in a welfare state. I really do not understand why one of the most important requests in this report to guarantee reproductive rights, the right to abortion of women, refers to the organisation Abortion Without Borders, which clearly states in its annual report that in the year 2020 she had 77 remote abortions carried out via the abortion pill in the second semester of pregnancy. This is against all medical scientific plowing. One of the side effects of that abortion pill is that between 1 and 5% of abortions fail. That is a percentage that we certainly have to take into account. An incomplete abortion means that the exorcism of the fetus is not fully successful. This is the same health hazard as Izabela had, namely that a dead fetus or a particle remains present in the uterus. I warned you about this in committee. If the Belgian state wants to support women who commit abortion, we must do so correctly. If we work here with an abortion pill, we'll do it in an abortion center. Then the woman will be escorted, and then the woman will be given the necessary care in the event of complications. Then there will be a curettage and her blood tests will be checked in case of large blood loss. Even with a dormant problem of a small piece of uterus that stays in place, it will be discovered that those blood levels are not good. Then that woman will be treated. That is what the N-VA Group is very concerned about. Reference has already been made to the respect of Belgian abortion law. That has been taken into account in this resolution. However, the allocation of the grants by State Secretary Schlitz does not include conditions linked to that grant. As a government, you cannot control what your resources are used for. I found it quite striking that when the various amendments were put to the vote, Mr Rohonyi had tabled an amendment in which she called for the granting of the funds to Abortion Without Borders to bring the women from Poland to Belgium. But just that amendment was rejected. Just that amendment that would allow you to enforce Belgian law. There are therefore many anomalies and concerns in this motion for a resolution. I call upon you all to bear that in mind. What is the point of signing a resolution with the best intentions, namely to guarantee women's health, if it has the opposite effect? I don't think anyone in this half-round wants this. That is why my group will abstain, because if we do something, we want to do it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u105	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u107	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u108	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is always difficult to adopt a clear position with the opposition on a law, since such acts always contain provisions that we fully support, but there are always a few that we have difficulty with. It is then difficult to determine whether we vote in favour or against. Of course, we can always abstain. I will not repeat the committee's discussion for this draft law, because we will be working for a very long time. There are many provisions between which we fully support. For this I refer to the speech by Mr Anseeeuw, Mr Van Peel and myself. However, we will abstain in the vote because we are having difficulty with certain provisions. Firstly, we have a problem with Chapter 6. At first glance, it is a purely technical amendment of the Law of 12 May 2014. That is technically a justified adjustment. But I do not need to remind you that we have had some problems with the law of 12 May 2014. This law introduces family leave, but grants additional social rights to carers who, in our view, are unclearly defined. That is why we do not wish to see technical adaptation in the present legislative text. We have therefore abstained. A second element of criticism of the draft law concerns Chapter 8, in particular Subsection 1. The Government authorises itself to determine, through a KB, the impact of non-working-time compensation, such as withdrawal allowances, on the right to disability benefit. We find it difficult for the government to exercise the right to determine this, especially as there is sufficiently clear case law on this issue. We believe it is important that, as representatives of the people who are supposed to control a government, we should be involved in any policy adjustments concerning the combination of a cancellation allowance with an invalidity allowance. Wrong decisions on this may increase the risk of an inactivity drop during the first period after the end of the contract of employment, especially in the current context where the government is also planning to apply the minimum disability benefit in the long term from the first month of incapacity for work. You will understand that, in those circumstances, we voted against the provision in question, because we do not think it is really kosher, not really parliamentary, that it is really democratic that the government should, in this way, take Parliament out of play in a very important matter and thus neutralize the normal functioning of a democracy. On the basis of these two minor but not insignificant reservations about your draft law, we will abstain from voting on your draft law, Minister, even if we agree with the vast majority of the provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u109	Madam President, I am not going to talk about the articles of this draft law, because we have already discussed them in detail in committee. However, I would like to refer to our own amendments. Today we are again tabling our amendment to maintain income during quarantine and when a parent has to take care of a child because of school closure by corona. There are several reasons for our request. Firstly, as regards the maintenance of income during quarantine, we are clearly facing a health crisis here. Omikron rapidly increases the number of quarantines. The care staff is completely exhausted. However, people are not encouraged to comply with the quarantine obligation, as they would lose 30% of their income. Vivaldi therefore imposes an impossible dilemma on the workers, either by the end of the month or by protecting others from possible contamination. The dilemma becomes untenable for many families. Secondly, it is less expensive and less detrimental to conduct a genuine anticorona policy. We have already talked about this today. It is better to go for more testing, maintenance of income during quarantine and free self-tests, as my colleague asked today, than to close certain sectors such as nightlife, restrict the activity of other sectors such as catering and culture or even close classes. In addition, we are facing a social emergency, aggravated by the loss of purchasing power. Monday I received a single mother with four children in the office. She told me she doesn't know what she thinks is worse. She has four children of different ages. They always come back from a risk contact. She said if she keeps going into quarantine, she's not gonna make it financially by the end of the month. She must either opt for poverty for the children or close her eyes and just go to work. These are dilemmas that many people face. Let us be honest, the impact of this crisis lies not only with those who become ill, but above all with the loss of purchasing power. We have heard a number of speeches here today about rising energy costs, rising food prices, the loss of income due to temporary unemployment and the freezing of wages, which has been shown on several occasions over the last year and a half. So, what's going on? Minerva's most recent study suggests that from 2015 to 2019 real wages have fallen by 2% in the sectors that are currently struggling in the corona crisis, such as cleaners, skilled workers, drivers and administrative staff. This is in contrast to managers and directors, who have seen their real wages rise by 4%. We therefore need to put an end to this trend of impoverishment. The workers really need to be helped in the social crisis, which is really starting to have dramatic consequences. We also believe that it is necessary to put an end to discrimination, namely discrimination between those who are able to work telework and thus retain their income, and those who are absolutely unable to do so, and thus give up 30%, in particular the essential jobs, such as drivers, cashiers or housekeepers. This is particularly important, as Statbel's research into wages for 2020 shows that just the essential professions have the lowest wages. This is always a double penalty for all employees involved. Moreover, the recent GEMS opinion of 19 November 2021 supports our position. In that opinion, the GEMS recalls that there are still major inequalities in this respect for people who are unable to work at home and whose absence is not financially compensated. It is also necessary to clarify matters. In our group practice we hear that there is a lot of uncertainty about income. The two or three-day quarantine pending the test results are usually considered temporary unemployment with an income loss of 30%. If the test is then positive, the work is covered by the sickness scheme, which means that the income is guaranteed. What do we see on the premises? Sometimes these two possibilities are confused to the detriment of workers, especially in the interim sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u110	We believe that there should be an end to this vagueness, because if someone has to go into quarantine or isolation, it is for medical reasons and therefore legitimate. For this reason, 100% of income should be guaranteed. Finally, certain countries are not choosing "Belgium" as the only country to ask for the income guarantee, so why doesn't Belgium? There is also our amendment concerning parents who have to take care of their children because of the closure of the class or crèche. Their income must also be guaranteed so that they can actually take leave and avoid the discouraging effect of the loss of income, as I have just explained. That is all the more important, because that is how we prevent the children from being cared for by the grandparents, a group at risk. In this way we also ensure good home working conditions. It is very stressful to telework while taking care of the children, thus avoiding the negative effects of stress and overload, such as burn-out. In this way, we are also avoiding an increase in the security of workers' lives. Countries like Finland have already opted for this income guarantee, as I have just said. For all these reasons, we ask that we vote in favour of our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u111	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u112	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2247/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2247/7) The bill has 47 articles. The draft law contains 47 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u113	• 48 Sofie Merckx cs (2247/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u116	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u117	This bill should normally have been voted on by the end of last year, but we postponed it. This was not only due to the fact that the draft was submitted very late in the Chamber, but also to the fact that 70 amendments were tabled in the last week before Christmas. However, there are also serious problems with a number of provisions, of which I will explain two. These are two provisions which have determined our voting position and which mean that we will vote against this draft, despite the fact that there are also some very good things in it. The first problem concerns the VVPRbis scheme, the system of reduced withholding tax, in which the government opposes the technique of exemption from the obligation to pay. I will not go into this in too much detail, as we have already done in the committees. I will just say that a correct transitional right, respecting the legitimate trust or expectations of the company and its shareholders, would make the changes to this scheme acceptable. It is therefore regrettable that the government only partially responds to the comments made by the Council of State. I will go into a little more detail about the second provision which makes us vote against this bill, because it is actually exemplary for us in the way in which this government conducts taxation. It concerns the tax treatment of the pensions of frontier workers: Belgian selfemployed persons and workers employed in the Netherlands, France, Germany or Luxembourg during their lifetime, since they have acquired a second pillar pension and are taxed on that pension in Belgium. We have a problem with this provision for three reasons. Firstly, the tax burden is substantially increased for a relatively large group of Belgian pensioners, who have done part of their pension building abroad through their employment there. The amendment speaks in neutral terms, but the potential group is 25,000 Belgians working in the Netherlands, almost 7,000 Belgians working in Germany and over 8,000 Belgians working in France. I am not talking about the 46,000 Belgians working in Luxembourg because they are not affected by this law. I asked the Minister in committee for figures on how many people are specifically affected, how many people are affected by the tax increase he is introducing. He couldn't answer that. He only knew the number of taxpayers who had been chased by the tax authorities into a trial, and that was about a hundred. I did ask for those figures, and specifically for the Netherlands. Why for the Netherlands? The Netherlands is precisely the reason why the Minister adopts this bill and introduces this provision. After all, negotiations are currently under way with the Netherlands on a new double taxation treaty. Due to a change in the application of the current Double Taxation Convention since 2018, the Netherlands has now also started to tax some of those pensions. Hence the Dutch case is very exemplary. I am told that 3,000 to 4,000 pensioners will be affected by this scheme. These are all retired people who will no longer be taxed separately on their moving income as a result of the new rules on pension formation for 2004, but will be gradually. What does that mean in numbers? This amounts to an annual tax increase of between 5,000 and 15,000 euros, depending on the size of the pension. An additional tax on your pension from 5,000 to 15,000 euros, that's not very small. The second element I have a problem with is the retroactivity. An important principle in tax matters - most governments try to comply with it - is non-retroactivity in taxation. Especially when taxes are increased, it is very sensitive and can only have an effect on the future and not on the past. This draft law will not be adopted until 2022, but will also apply to pensions in 2021. It just can't be. The Constitutional Court is also very clear about this: "Non-retroactivity of laws is a guarantee to prevent legal uncertainty." In the past, the Court has destroyed several laws that were contrary to them. Moreover, in the case of Belgians who have worked in the Netherlands, this retroactivity means that they will have paid double taxation before 2021 and will have to recover the overpaid tax in the Netherlands. What a wonderful gift from this government to all those pensioners. A third last element is the tax attitude towards taxpayers. At present, there is established case-law, up to and including the Court of Cassation, on this specific pension problem. Supplementary pensions are only progressively taxable for the part made up of contributions after 2004. The tax administration does not care about these many court rulings up to the level of cassation and continues to pursue the full progressive taxation of those pensions by constantly bringing legal proceedings against taxpayers. It's more than a hundred cases. The Minister was questioned about this by colleague Matheï. His laconical answer is: "My administration disagrees with the views developed by the courts and courts in this respect." His next answer, including the answer of this government: "We are going to amend the law so that from now on the tax authority can no longer be wronged by the judge." We have to do it. [[.]] If a taxpayer knowingly and knowingly wrongly applies the tax legislation, we call him a fraud. If the tax authorities continue to apply tax laws knowingly and willingly, what does that make the tax authorities? This government is always talking about a major tax reform. We still haven't seen any of that. However, we see one tax increase after another, while one tax niche after another is abolished. I would think it would be a first step towards tax reform if the tax authorities were to admit their wrongs and abandon the conflict model in which they are now in. That is not the case with this government at all. For all these reasons, we shall be voting against this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u118	Madam President, Mr Donné was right to point out that tradition seems to be repeated in this country year after year. Legislative proposals with tax impact will be submitted and voted just before the end of the fiscal year. This is unworkable, not only for Members of Parliament, but also for the many professions that are affected by it. At his introduction on Tuesday 14 December, the Minister immediately informed the committee that an additional committee had been scheduled on Friday 17 December. This had to do with the fact that a series of government amendments had to be made to this draft. We were already in the mood in committee and indeed, only one day before the discussion, Parliament received no less than 70 government tax-technical amendments. It was impossible for Members of this House to do any serious work. After all, we need at least 48 hours to study all this. That's Bogaert's rule of thumb. I see Mrs De Block laughing, but I think it is the most normal thing in the world that we can do serious work, especially in fiscal matters. The draft law was further discussed at two meetings, Monday 20 December and Wednesday 22 December. After long negotiations and pressure, where the minister was almost flogged back by his own group, the bill was finally lifted over Christmas holidays. I would like to comment on some of the amendments and issues that are before us. First of all, Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 to the new Article 25 excludes the federal interest deduction if Flemish interest subsidies were obtained. This is an unacceptable interference by the federal level in Flemish policy. We were therefore wondering whether consultations had taken place with the regions. The Minister replied that the proposed measure came at the explicit request of Flemish Minister Demir, who wanted to avoid duplication between the Flemish support and the federal tax advantage. It seems particularly odd that Minister Demir would ask the Federal Minister to exclude taxpayers applying for Flemish interest subsidies from that federal investment deduction. We have already put the question to Mrs Demir in the Flemish Parliament and this is certainly being continued. Amendments Nos. 26 to 36 wanted to introduce the tax regime for a new type of legal entity, in particular the European long-term investment fund. The government was reluctant to accept that this was an urgent matter which could not be dealt with in this Parliament and in committee under the normal legislative procedure. For the Flemish Interest, it was not acceptable for such a complex arrangement to be pursued by parliament. The Council of State also had reservations about the proposed scheme. Finally, at the request of the Flemish Interest, the Minister deleted this scheme. It will probably be proposed here in Parliament in the near future by means of a separate draft law. I would like to thank the Minister for the constructive cooperation that was possible on this issue. It was not very common sense to rush such an important dossier through Parliament, and then just before Christmas. Amendments also introduced changes to the famous VVPR-bis regime, the dividend scheme granted or payable from 1 January 2022. The Flemish Interest has intervened very extensively and, in order to support the numeral professions, has asked a lot of tax-technical questions on this subject. Mr Ravyts also did so on Monday 20 December. There have been a lot of answers. It has finally emerged that, for example, there were errors in the government's amendments. We thank the Government and the Minister for their constructive cooperation in this area. The answers have greatly facilitated the work of the numeral professions. The Minister also confirmed to us that certain companies will have to visit the notary before the end of the year. We still wonder what the usefulness of the scheme is for companies to carry out an unnecessary operation, namely a notary visit. This will entail additional costs for these companies, while they have always acted in good faith. Moreover, that scheme is absurd, since the companies concerned may subsequently go to the same notary for a further reduction of capital. Lost work and lost expenses, then. Of the various tax provisions that are before us, we, like Mr Donné, can approve certain documents and reject certain documents. We will abstain on the whole. But we are now in the period of good intentions. Minister, I hope you listen remotely, or at least your cabinet will follow this meeting. Let us start with the good intention to break with the old tradition of this country, to present the bad tradition of legislative proposals with an important fiscal impact just before the end of the fiscal year and to put them to the vote in Parliament. This is not desirable for the proper functioning of Parliament, nor for the hard work of the numbers professions, the many thousands of accountants and fiscalists in this country, who must manage everything. In 2022, let us put the texts to the vote in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u119	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a law on various tax provisions contains a lot of small and larger provisions; I will highlight some of them. Firstly, there is the relaxation of the rules on tax relief for gifts, which is important in view of the situation in Wallonia as a result of the floods. A second minor adjustment tackles the rather large administrative burden faced by the 45 000 seasonal workers, who are important for the agriculture and horticulture sector. A liberating corporate tax is now being withheld, which contributes to a strong administrative simplification, both for the tax administration and for the employers employing seasonal workers, and the seasonal workers themselves. A third adjustment concerns the retention of progress for frontier workers, a difficult term for a mechanism which is nevertheless very important for frontier workers in our country. What's the system like? Normally, a Belgian citizen in Belgium is taxed on global income. There are exceptions to this by means of the double taxation treaties, whereby a person working in the Netherlands is taxed on professional income in the Netherlands. This income is then exempted in Belgium, but it is included to determine the rate of tax. That's a logical system, but there's been a lack of logic when it comes to redundancy payments. When a Belgian is employed as a frontier worker in the Netherlands and receives a redundancy allowance, he is taxed there at a fixed rate, but that amount is also included in Belgium in order to determine the progressive rate. That is not fair and was also confirmed by the case law, because a Belgian dismissal allowance is treated differently. With this draft law, the government does comply with that case law. So I must contradict Mr Donné. After all, inequality is now being undone. This means a world of difference for frontier workers who are unlucky enough to get fired in the Netherlands and get back to work in Belgium. Several thousands of euros care about that. The adjustment therefore has important consequences. Mr Verherstraeten and I had already tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, and our group is therefore pleased that the regulation was included in this draft law. In future, frontier workers will be able to get back to work with peace of mind and without adverse consequences. So much for a selection of the draft law on various tax provisions, which we will support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u120	Mr Matheï, are you equally satisfied with the provision on the pensions of frontier workers, which completely violates the law and introduces substantial tax increases for a whole pack of Belgians who receive a pension in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u121	I would like to reply briefly. Firstly, the relevant provision in the draft law implements agreements made between Belgium and the Netherlands, including by former Finance Minister Van Overtveldt. He had agreed in writing in letters that such a legislative initiative would be developed. Secondly, without regulation, the Netherlands would have imposed additional taxation. It was about choosing where the tax would be levied and, above all, avoiding double taxation. So much for the arguments to go along in the story, as written in the design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u122	We won't repeat the discussion here. The fact remains that this is a substantial tax increase for all those involved, who would be taxed much less in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation today is very bad for many families in Belgium, Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia. The prices for energy swing out of the pan. I've got numbers here. There are people who go from 160 euros a month to 420 euros a month. There are people who will have to pay 2,000 to 3,000 more euros a year in energy. So the question is what the government will do. That is an important question. We had a debate this afternoon on whether we were going to take urgent action to reduce the price of energy for people. There's an emergency. The lines that were frozen a week ago are starting to move. The PTB-PVDA proposes to reduce the VAT on gas and electricity from 21 % to 6 %. We propose to reduce VAT to 6% because gas and electricity are not luxury products. How can you explain that in Belgium we pay as much VAT on gas and electricity as on caviar and champagne? How can you explain that to me? This is crazy! In Belgium, there are two rates of VAT: 21% for all products and 6% for essential products. In Belgium, we managed to be the world's champions in considering that gas and electricity are not essential products. What's left then? Oxygen? Gas and electricity are essential products. In Belgium, we continue to want to "pump" the citizen with 21% VAT. The PTB has been fighting since 2007. We have collected 300,000 signatures, and I thank the signatories. We collected 300,000 signatures from people who want to see VAT reduced. Today, the Prime Minister told us that it must be payable for public finances. But there is a solution, ladies and gentlemen! Do you know who is reaping profits as never before in this crisis? It is a crisis for families and for the working class, it is a crisis for all citizens in our country, but in one place in Belgium it is a crisis that is going to go on. That's at the meeting of the shareholders of ENGIE Electrabel. That is where they are discussing how much they will earn. The PVDA has once calculated how much Electrabel will earn more, on top of ordinary profits. It is about the superprofits they get from the crisis, because prices are very high, but the production costs of ENGIE Electrabel remain the same. The cost price remains the same. For Engie-Electrabel, the cost price remains the same but the market price has exploded. Do you have any idea, ladies and gentlemen, how much Engie-Electrabel is going to get fat this year and the year to come? I'll tell you because I see you're asking yourself the question. We've calculated it for you! We're like this! We're generous. Already now, Electrabel has 800 million euros in the pocket without doing anything! Gling-gling! Gling-gling! And the projection for next year is 1.6 billion. This means an additional 2.4 billion euros in profits! And what does this government do? "We don't know where to get the money. Oh, but no!" It's always the same! When you have to pick up from the pockets of the workers, you're the first. But when it comes to getting money from Engie-Electrabel, the answer is, "Oh no! We don't have a text. I'm sorry. We'd need some expertise. We have to think." What's that? There's a social emergency to go get that money! Three hundred thousand signatures, a perpetual fight... Now the lines are starting to move. After all, I had questioned Mr Van Peteghem in October, November and December 2021. His ears are already starting to whistle, because every time I came up with the question whether it was for or against the VAT reduction to 6%. Until yesterday, the Cd&V Minister said he was against it. However, it is a good CD&V minister. A CD&V minister may also change his mind. So my pleasure yesterday was great, when I noticed that the CD&V group had changed its mind. She now saw something very positive in it and actually thought it was a good idea of the PVDA. They thought it was something and so the Minister wants to go for it and reduce VAT from 21% to 6%. We hear that several parties are in favour. However, we have heard the Prime Minister today:no way. After all, the measure must be temporary and it gave even more reasons not to introduce a reduction in VAT. However, we can decide otherwise. That's tonight's bet. This evening's commitment is that we, the Labour Party, have tabled an amendment which clearly states that Parliament decides to reduce VAT from 21% to 6%. When all the parties who have indicated that they are ready to reduce VAT from 21% to 6%, this evening we have 78 votes out of a total of 150. If all parties that are in favour of reducing the VAT on energy from 21 % to 6 % vote the amendment of the PTB, it will be 78 votes out of 150. How many votes do we get the majority, ladies and gentlemen? If we divide 150 by two, that's 75 votes plus one vote, that's 76. The account is there! We can, we must, this evening, vote for a reduction in VAT from 21 % to 6 %. The question is whether this will happen. We already did it once for the White Blouse Fund. Everyone then said that the measure was populist, maximalist. Mr. Clarinval of the MR was already almost suffocating! But we voted for this White Blouse Fund with an alternative majority, thanks to a balance of power. I therefore call on all parties today to vote in favour of this amendment. No more You shouldn't start saying: we're in favour of it, but... I've just heard it, people from Vooruit, you're all looking at a VAT of 6%. I heard Conner Rousseau: we'll do it, we'll do it. On Twitter he says: we do it, now! Conner, that's touching my heart. Others might have said they would do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But no, Conner Rousseau says we're doing it now. Well, when is now, dear comrades? Now is 8:03 p.m. in Parliament. So, as your chairman has asked:let's do it, now. I wouldn't want it to be tonight: we're not doing it now. Because then you have a problem. Words- Deeds! The left-wing people, the working people, don't want words. It wants action. Not words but deeds, which we sang during the demonstrations. That's what we believe. So don't find excuses. Not: it cannot, and this and that, and there is no majority for it. There is a majority: 78 votes this evening are theoretically, in words, ready to adopt this fantastic amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this evening's result will be above 75 votes, otherwise the workers will have to conclude that there are parties that are bla-bla and parties that are acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u124	Madam President, I would like to react because there is a debate. I am not a member of the Energy Committee. I hear Mr Hedebouw's narrative. He does it very well. He obviously forgets in his narrative that the majority government, through the enlargement of the social tariff, has met the enormous needs of some of the poorest population in this country. During the plenary discussion this afternoon, the Prime Minister recalled that this represented a decrease in the bill of EUR 700 for the persons concerned. Our demand, as socialists, is to continue this enlargement of the social tariff beyond 1 March. Even if VAT reduction from 21 % to 6 % is included in our electoral programme - it is true that this is a solution that can exist and has credit - we have since found that a linear reduction of this indirect tax would be paid by the whole country to essentially, in any case in large part, also promote high incomes. What I do not understand in Mr Hedebouw's narrative is how he can say, while claiming to be close to the workers, the low incomes, the most disadvantaged, that it is Christmas for everyone - including the rich and the richest - since everyone will benefit from this reduction in VAT. I'm going to get it. My income is 6,000 euros net. Do I currently have the right to receive a reduction in VAT as proposed by Mr Hedebouw? No, of course not! I can't ethically, morally. I'm not in need. Raoul Hedebouw's proposal is therefore not a revenue-based proposal. The Socialist Party's proposal since then, alongside the extension of the social tariff beyond 1 March, is to provide for a direct premium on the bills of households, those who subscribe to an electricity network, to a gas network. This premium will reduce this bill by 200 euros. So we're going to help the average income, those up to 3,500 gross euros per month. This is really social. It is really working in relation to people's income, and not giving a generalized bonus to all those who have the means to overcome this crisis. As far as the bla-bla is concerned, I would like to hear everything we want, dear colleague. I think you have quite a remarkable talent. You can finally demonstrate things, if I am in your denunciation of some of the blah-blah. At one point, the reduction in generalised VAT for everyone will delay automatic wage indexation, since in the calculation of automatic wage indexation, of course, there is the cost of gas and electricity. Therefore, if it is to now make a gift to everyone then say, in a few months, "you lose an indexation of wages or it will be delayed", I do not see who wins in your solution. We give the illusion of winning now, but we catch up later. We are essentially advocating direct support for households who are in need through this €200 premium, which we believe is more appropriate. It's not bla-bla, it's action. On the White Blouses Fund, I would still like to remind you, dear Raoul Hedebouw, that the one who is at the base of the White Blouses Fund is also Marc Goblet. Instead of calling it White Blouses Fund, maybe we should call it Marc Goblet Fund. Indeed, he fought a great deal to bring out this point that you addressed in a budget discussion, but that was not a White Blouse Fund at the time. You came up with the cherries on the cake and said, "You have to help." And that was right. It was necessary to help the workers concerned. But your proposal was a budget amendment, not a structural solution. The structural solution was brought by the Socialist Party, Marc Goblet and the other members of the majority. You worked with him in concert. Rather than trying to condemn each other by draping yourself from the virtue of opposition, you should have a unifying speech. You are a Belgian party, and you claim this Belgian feeling. Out of the pure ideology of saying that VAT must be reduced in order to examine all the concrete solutions that are possible and financial and that will really affect those who are suffering today instead of advocating a unilateral measure that will affect the whole population, including people like me who do not deserve this help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u125	Mr Lacroix, is the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 6 % on gas and electricity Christmas for everyone? The merit of your speech is that you clearly state the position of the Socialist Party: that of being against 6 % VAT! I will try to dispel the arguments you have used against VAT at 6%. As a left-wing party, I want to be the defender of this measure, which is also defended by the FGTB and by many organizations on the ground. I want to be that defender. Even if the PS tries to dismantle this idea – what you did for 10 minutes – I want to try to convince you that it is still a good measure. You have been more sincere than your colleagues, who have not been very clear! You think it's a bad idea, it's Christmas for everyone. I'll try to unblock all the arguments that don't stand the way. The first legend is that the rich would consume energy. The reality is a little more complicated than that, Mr. Lacroix. Indeed, many poor households live in poorly isolated housing and under poor heating conditions, unlike the more wealthy families that benefit from good isolation. The OECD has published a study on the issue of overconsumption of the rich. What is the verdict? This study concludes that overconsumption is observed among the richest 20% compared to the poorest 20%. However, it is mainly due to the smallest household composition in the poorest quintile: 1.7 on average compared to 2.1 in the fifth quintile. As a result, there are more people in the most affluent families. If we report these data to the number of individuals, we observe a 4% higher consumption in the richest quintile. I do not deny your claim that consumption would be higher, but let's stop believing in a four- or five-fold multiplication for the rich, so that it would be "open bar" on the ground that it has four swimming pools. I turn to the second argument, on VAT. If you want to make the rich pay – and I agree – you don't have to pay VAT. Here is the ABC of a left-wing tax lesson: VAT is the least redistributive tax, because it weighs proportionally heavier in the consumption of a poorer family. That's what every union delegate and tax officer knows. It's not even the ABC; it's A! Do you understand what I mean? This is the beginning of the left-wing tax course: VAT is socially unfair. That's why we left on the left, the real one in any case, we fight for progressive taxes – either on wages or on wealth. In any case, following the idea you have just expressed, that we will charge the rich with VAT, on the grounds that they consume more, so as to increase the one on bread, since they eat more! Might as well increase VAT on all consumer goods! We are not going to charge the rich with VAT. Since this VAT is socially unfair, I think it is logical to reduce it. That is what we are hearing, in fact, from your colleagues in the social democracy on the Dutch-speaking side of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u126	Mr Hedebouw, Mr Lacroix wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u127	It is a great pleasure, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u128	I don't know if we're going to have a debate between comrades. I still called Raoul Hedebouw, and I'm going to keep calling him "camarad," despite the fact that he's adopting some kind of teacher for me, as if I didn't know anything about taxation, as if I were a citizen without any thought, without any brains. I find that for a left-wing man, in particular, you are disrespectful of another left-wing man, who perhaps cares more about how we are going to respond to the citizens in concrete terms, finding financial and enforceable solutions, rather than having a speech of perlimpin's powder, in which one makes it appear that, with a simple click, everything is going to be better in the best of the worlds. You still had a nice word about me, but it was tinted with irony. You said: "He is a sincere man, Mr. Lacroix." Since I am a benevolent man, I will leave your ironic tone aside and remember only the word "insecure", while reminding you of what I said in the preamble: the reduction of VAT was part of our programme in 2019. It was under the Di Rupo government that we decided to reduce VAT at that time and at that time. Today, in the face of the current situation, alongside the hypothetical reduction of VAT, other solutions seem to us to be much more timely, and I have explained them. I have never advocated an increase in VAT on certain products, but on the contrary. I'm also a left-wing man. The socialists introduced the progressive tax. It was thanks to their parliamentary action that we arrived at this. So, I think you lack sincerity, in particular, when you also say that the rich do not consume more or marginally more than the less rich. Of course, I know that all social housing is poorly isolated, I always meet tenants, people who, indeed, are still in complicated situations. You are easier, you have vehicles that you recharge at home, you consume more electricity. I will simply ask for more nuances in your speech and, above all, less condescending towards me. It would grow your personality, which, however, is a personality that I appreciate anyway, since we live not far from each other, in any case in the same region, and I know your commitment. But at some point, we must stop continuing to behave in this way vis-à-vis colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u129	(...) A final element on the question of the two proposals that are on the table: a reduction of €200 one shot or a reduction of VAT from 21% to 6% on electricity. On this point, the orders of magnitude are not the same. Instead, the calculations consist of an aid of 700 euros on a recurring basis in the context of the VAT reduction of 21 % to 6 % and 200 euros according to the PS proposal. So, I think we're in other orders of magnitude. On this side, I think the EUR 200 is really not enough. That is also what many people will tell you, which is why the FGTB and many organisations are fighting for a 21-6% reduction in VAT. Indeed, the order of magnitude of solution must be different. On this side, I do not think that the EUR 200 will be enough. In conclusion, there is a 78-member majority in favour of reducing VAT. So it is possible to vote here, now, in a quarter of an hour. Perhaps even the Ecolo will change their theory of believing that a reduction in VAT will lead people to open windows and waste calories by making fun of the environment and admit that this reasoning is not right, that this is not how it works. In fact, it is known that the compression of energy consumption is not linked solely to price, certainly not as the first denominator. So, I think this argument-- maybe we'll be more than 78 members voting "for" tonight. That would be great! Maybe the N-VA's gonna be okay now. Four years ago, N-VA brought the VAT to 21 %, but perhaps Bert Wollants, not present at the moment, believes that they should not have increased that VAT to 21 % at all. It can happen at the N-VA, you never know. So, Madam Chair, meet in 45 minutes, after the hearings, for the vote on the amendment of the PTB. Seventy-six votes are required. Not one more, not one less!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u130	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u131	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2351/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2351/8) The bill has 131 articles. The draft law has 131 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u133	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the facts. Last week, plastic surgeon Jeff Hoeyberghs was sentenced to ten months in prison, half of which was effective, a fine of 8,000 euros and another five years of deprivation of his rights for his statements during a lecture in Ghent. That's a heavy sentence, a punishment that a lot of rapists in this country won't get. Before that, I would like to make two points very clear. Firstly, I am not standing here defending the reprehensible statements of Jeff Hoeyberghs, because I think that, like any well-educated human being, I find them utterly degout. I am only defending here, in the spirit of Voltaire, the right to make statements, including disgusting statements. Secondly, I am not concerned either with the charges of inciting violence. Calling for violence is the limit to freedom of expression. I'm talking about a conviction for sexism and a conviction for inciting hatred. Even if there is a fundamental disagreement with Mr Hoeyberghs' arrogant statements, by dismissing them as inciting hatred, Justice has once again struck free speech. We are increasingly living in a society where freedom of expression is being combated by lawsuits, fines and prison sentences. I am thinking of the condemnation of four Former Militants last year, for expressing an opinion on a banner, all under the guise of inciting hatred. Moreover, it is very strange that inciting hatred is punishable, but does not hate itself. Hoeyberghs' condemnation came with very sharp reactions: from politics, of course, from my party chairman and the presidents of N-VA and MR, but also from outside politics, going from philosopher Maarten Boudry, who rightly said that no moral progress is being made by handing out prison sentences for gross talk, to Professor sociologist Mark Elchardus, who talked about the derailment of the rule of law that threatens our democracy and personal freedom. Elchardus rightly recalled that the rule of law was developed precisely to protect individuals from the power of the State. He notes that it is being used today against the freedom of those individuals. The tyranny of the sensitivities prevails, according to Elchardus. Madam Secretary of State, the sexism law, which was discussed and approved here in May 2014, had the official intention to tackle harassment of women on the streets. That's why the law came. Several colleagues will no doubt remember: that law came in response to an appealing report by Sofie Peeters, Femme de la rue. She had herself followed by a camera through the streets of Brussels and was repeatedly chased, in an insulting, sexist manner, disrespectfully stared at, you name it. With that sexism law, you claimed, it could finally be dealt with. Madam Secretary of State, how often has that law been used for that purpose? That law completely misses its purpose. The harassment of women on the streets hasn't gotten any less. On the contrary, last year alone, a corona year, more than one in ten women were victims of street harassment in Antwerp. In pronounced multicultural districts, such as Antwerp-North, that is even more than one woman in four. That sexism law didn't fix the original objective. The Flemish Interest has already said in the discussion of that sexism law that that law would not solve the problem at all, that it was purely a symbol law. We also warned at that time that it could be used to restrict freedom of expression. I looked up for you the report on the discussion of that law in this hemisphere on 24 May 2014. On behalf of the Flemish Interest Group, Bert Schoofs said the following, and I quote literally from the report of the plenary: "We have had enough of yet another symbol or signal law. We have had enough of yet another politically correct law that ultimately threatens to fish for freedom of expression. The general provision on discrimination, which sometimes goes too far for us, is now again laid down in various laws on target groups in all possible ways, leading to dangerous fragmentation, proliferation and even banalisation of criminal law. These laws are, in fact, a spur of our politicians towards the citizen. But, believe me, that citizen is getting his middle finger on such laws." And now it comes: "Remembrance," said Bert Schoofs in 2014, "the TV performance of Jeff Hoeyberghs a few years ago, then in conversation with 2 sp.a MEPs? He said, "Hey, madamekes," and added some more rudeness. The chance that this man will now be condemned for such a verdict on TV has become more real. I do not think that we are waiting for someone to be convicted for being rude or rude and for someone to be humiliated or spoiled. But the chance that he will be judged for this will increase with this law." Those were once again very prophetic words from the Flemish Chamber of Commerce, which were laughed away by many people among you. At that time, almost eight years ago, the Flemish Interest had a surplus of right to vote, unfortunately alone, against the sexism law. Madam Secretary of State, following Mr Hoeyberghs' condemnation this week, there is now a sharp reaction from an academic point of view. Jogchum Vrielink, professor of discrimination law, specializing in hate speech and free speech, stated that the sexism law could be better abolished. According to him, the sexism law is too broad, so that pretty much anything can fit underneath it. There are other less freedom-limiting instruments, Professor Vrielink said. There are also attorneys who say that the punishment for Mr Hoeyberghs is very heavy and they openly ask questions about the laws on the basis of which the sentence was pronounced. All these lawyers share our view that the far too vague and too general sexism law and discrimination laws make the interpretation room too wide, which allows arbitrary prosecution. A strict interpretation is necessary, without a wide margin that judges can abuse in order to do politics. That is why I have the following questions, Madam Secretary of State. Do you share the opinion of the specialists in this area that the scope of the Sexism Act goes beyond its purpose and may be contrary to freedom of expression? Are you prepared to abolish the sexism law in the light of this or at least limit its scope? Are you prepared to subject all existing legislation restricting the right to freedom of expression to the same revision? Finally, when will you proceed with this? When can we expect concrete results in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u134	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid repeating myself too much, I shall change my mind. It is a pity, in itself, that we have to have the discussion on the basis of one person; I will not be foolish about that. That must not, of course, stop us from holding the debate. I would like to change my mind and tell you what I actually think of men like a Jeff Hoeyberghs and their statements. Maybe that's dangerous, because I assume the sexism law goes in the two directions. When I saw the video of his speech, I thought he was mostly pathetic. That's the type of man I can only have a little compassion with. That's the type of guy that couldn't have any women in the past, and now he's got some money and power and suddenly he's got it. However, that frustration that it didn't work out in the early playground doesn't get rid of that type anymore. And so they become machos, they strike back and say more and more gross things to boost one's own self-esteem. Poor naps, I always think as a woman. I hope I haven't activated the sexism law now. It could be. One can forbid me to say that type of man keeps going around in my mind anyway. That is what I have already said. Of course, I could also call here to pull that type of man off their bikes with all of them. I could do that. Then I call for violence. I think we can agree on that. So you can't do that. But for that one does not need a sexism law. But if I say that I sometimes feel like pulling Hoeyberghs and that type of guy off their bike, but that I won't - feel like doing something other than doing it effectively; Open Vld knows all about it - and doesn't call for it, what then? Am I in danger now? Weird questions like that have to be asked these days. One has to ask, above all, whether the discussion about whether or not one should express wrong opinions - with Jeff Hoeyberghs the opinion is certainly wrong and that type of man really belongs in criminal law. Even real experts who would not be placed directly on the right-wing civil society have long been saying that the anti-discrimination law goes far too far and opens the door to the kind of debates with totally the opposite as the law aims to do. The goal, the fight against sexism, of course, I share. I also do not find it pleasant to be called on the streets or touched or, as I experienced myself, to be fired, because I did not agree with the boss. I share that struggle, but has the statement on Mr Hoeyberghs helped anything in the fight against sexism? Do women feel safer on the street now? Are there any more convictions for rapes? Is the taboo now gone for women to complain about it? Is that what the verdict has achieved? Are you prepared to at least review the legislation? This should be done with more legislation. We may all think we're fantastic, but we make some damn bad laws here sometimes. I think the sexism law is one of those. Hopefully, you will not remain dogmatically behind legislation that even causes the opposite of what you want, and you will have the courage to improve the law so that it can serve what we all support, namely the fight against sexism.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u135	The Sexism Act was introduced in 2014 with the aim of strengthening the existing legal arsenal by developing instruments to combat sexist phenomena. The application of the sexism law shows that this goal has been achieved. In November 2017, for the first time, someone was convicted on the basis of the sexism law. The person in question insulted a police officer during an identity check there saying she'd better find a job suitable for women. He ordered her to remain silent because he didn't listen to women, and molested her with "dirty whore." The man was sentenced to a fine by default. The Sexism Act defines criminal sexism as a gesture or act apparently intended to humiliate someone because of her or his slaughter, to regard him as inferior or to reduce someone to his sexual dimension, resulting in a serious impairment of the dignity of that person. The sexism law does indeed have a broad scope, but sexism is therefore a broad issue. Research shows that the problem affects very many women in every segment of society. A study shows that out of the 42,000 women questioned in Europe in connection with their experiences of violence, 60% of Belgian women from 15 years of age were already victims of at least one of the eleven sexual harassment forms questioned. Sexual harassment hinders women in their free and equal use of public space. This too, Mrs Van Peel, is reflected in research. According to a study by Plan International in Charleroi, Antwerp and Brussels, more than 4 out of 5 girls were already victims of various forms of intimidation in public space, from whistles and sexist comments to unwanted touches. Sexual harassment limits the freedom of movement and travel of one in two girls in Belgium. In addition, sexism is a fertile breeding ground for discrimination and violence. As Mrs D'Hose said, this particular case must not undermine the protection of girls and women. The sexism law is there for a reason. Have you forgotten that the movie Femme de la rue led to the sexism law? In that documentary, we saw how women in Brussels face sexual harassment every day on the streets, which makes them not feel safe and therefore not free. Your parties were also standing on their back legs. Then be consistent. Mrs. Pas, you're quoting one professor's criticism. Mrs Van Peel, you are talking about scientific research. May I invite you to read, for example, the analyses of Professor Neels, Professor Voorhoof or attorney De Clerck? You will probably also forget the Council of Europe Recommendation of March 2019, which encourages Member States to develop appropriate legislation on the phenomenon. Moreover, the Constitutional Court confirmed the law, despite the appeal brought by opponents. The Court stated that the sexism law is intended to protect personal dignity, not to ban jokes, advertising or opinions, even when they concern the role of women and men. The Sexism Act requires that it concerns behaviors or acts directed against one or more concrete, identifiable persons, so that there would be criminal sexism. Opinions about groups of people cannot be enough, and in this sense the sexism law is not a violation of freedom of expression. Before you say that, I am not blind to criticism, I also see the work that has yet to be done. Therefore, the National Action Plan Gender-related Violence provides for an evaluation of the sexism law. The aim is also to improve primary prevention by stepping up efforts to combat sexism and by strengthening the fight against street intimidation. Just think of the initiatives taken by the Brussels and Liège police. The awareness raising of the general public, as well as the awareness raising of target groups such as the police or magistrates, will continue. We aim to change attitudes among the victims, the perpetrators, the general public and the professionals. Before you start waving other clichés like Hoeyberghs would be punished more severely than rapists, sexism and any form of sexual violence should be punished appropriately. I'll always be on the side of the victims. Together with Minister Van Quickenborne, we are working hard against the impunity that sometimes still exists. We will ensure that more victims complain and that these complaints are dealt with appropriately, with guidance for the victims and with prosecution for the perpetrators. Know, however, that we cannot act adequately against sexual violence without doing something about the current climate, that violence against women continues to speak up. Mrs Pas, you cannot therefore scream murder and fire over rapists and close your eyes to what is causing this problem. In my policy, I address both the problems and their causes, sexual violence, but also the climate in which this violence can thrive. There are clear principles in our rule of law. Independent judges decide where the boundary lies between freedom of expression and inciting discrimination, hatred and violence. In this way, we not only protect women, but actually protect all citizens. I also agree with what Mr Geens has already said. If we really mean equality between men and women, what we do, then we must also create a climate in which they can thrive. Hoeybergh's statements are reprehensible. He literally describes violence against women and does so in his capacity as a doctor. Is that sexism or inciting discrimination and violence? It's up to the judge to decide, not politics. The judge examined the entire file and made the decision to go to jail certainly not lightly. The President of the Court referred to Hoeybergh's statements as long-term, well-targeted, repeated, particularly gross and vulgar, misogynistic and hateful statements. What matters to me is that freedom of speech is there for everyone. However, there are limits to freedom of expression. The right to freedom of speech stops where hatred begins. Hate rules out free speech. Hate causes victims to censor themselves. For example, 32% of women stopped expressing themselves on social media because of degradation. Mrs Van Peel, that too is scientific research. Shouldn't you be defending their freedom of speech? So anyone who defends Hoeyberghs with the argument that freedom of expression is compromised is mistaken. Should I perhaps repeat that four out of five women were once victims of sexual violence? However, you want to defend Hoeyberghs because he must be able to express his sexist opinion. What Hoeyberghs did is of the same reprehensible nature as an extremist imam trying to radicalize young people. Mrs van Peel, Mrs Pas, here together defending the right to hate speech, is really not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u136	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. With your answer, you made it clear that you did not listen to the question. You have repeated some of my explanatory statement. You read the sexism law. With examples you yourself have illustrated that the convictions do not form part of the whole of the sexism law, namely the approach to street harassment. The essence is not that we would not be against sexism. Everyone in the Halfround shares that concern; that is not the point. The essence, as I have argued, is that this sexism law does not help anything about sexism. I'm afraid that's why you're completely blind. On some elements I want to replicate more in detail. Firstly, an argument that I hear come back regularly is the supposedly aggravating argument that Mr Hoeyberghs made his statements as a doctor. Also in a tweet by Assita Kanko I read that she welcomed the condemnation of Mr Hoeyberghs as a doctor. There's a professional order with a deontology, isn't there? If things don't work out, that professional organization will act. It doesn't take a criminal to make people with grievous statements a criminal right away. Secondly, you say that free speech stops with hatred, and then ends with hate speech all the way to the end of your answer. I disagree with your statement. Freedom of speech stops violence and incites violence. What's hate? What's hate speech? You have said a lot about a climate created. Well, this vivaldi government is very keen to create a climate in which almost everything is described as hate speech. Do you know what the result of that is? Last week I happened to hear a presenter on the radio asking a listener what his preference is: song A or song B. The faintly pleasurable listener did not answer either, on which the presenter.... fully in the climate that the vivaldi government stirs up... said that that was the listener's talk of hatred, because that man happens not to like to hear either songs. Pretty much everything is hate speech these days. If one criticises the policy, then today that is hate speech. You say that this is the only positive point from all of your answer, there will be an evaluation of the sexism law, but you are already saying that the sexism law does not restrict free speech at all, unlike many specialists in this area. I can therefore deny myself the illusion that you intend to limit the margin of interpretation of the sexism law, which is far too broad today. In this way, we can at least objectively align what is criminal and what is not rather to ensure a strict interpretation of criminal provisions that allow arbitrary prosecutions and do not provide legal certainty at all. You're going further down the wrong road. You have also mentioned him together with Minister Van Quickenborne the battle under the guise of dealing with fake news and hate speech one step further. The aim is to stigmatise and criminalise even more easily opinions that you do not like in order to fight the political opposition. What doesn't work in the voting booth, people try through the courthouse. It would not be the first time that we have experienced this in Belgian history. Madam Secretary of State, make no mistake. It is not by muzzling the people that you are countering the brutality of the debate. On the contrary, that frustrates only more and will only exacerbate the brutality of the debate. In particular, bear in mind a 1976 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. That judgment states that freedom of expression also applies to the propositions which may shock, shock or alarm a part of society. I ask you to act accordingly and not to try to protect freedom by restricting it, because then we will have the counter-effect. Madam President, I have therefore submitted a motion for a recommendation to you electronically. It is a recommendation to do what many academics and lawyers ask, in particular to review the laws on sexism and discrimination, bearing that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u137	It's a good thing you made a mistake in the end about the criminality of hatred, Madam Secretary of State, because I think you yourself had a conviction on your pants. You cannot stand the fact that there are women who do not want to go so dogmatically into everything you keep calling feminism, but which actually has a completely counterproductive effect. That's what this is about. You mentioned some research into the existence of sexism, as if someone had to be convinced of it. That was not our argument either, but you clearly did not understand it. Our argument was that you achieve just the opposite of what you think you are aiming at. You're talking about a law that's been in existence since 2014, and you're saying she's been working because there's been two convictions since then. One of them was a reaction of a drunk man to a police officer. The other one dealt with Hoeyberghs, which we would normally keep quiet, because that's just someone who's not good in his upstairs room. You did him a favor: that man wanted attention and so he got attention. That is all you have achieved. That, and a lot of people who for the umpteenth time feel that we have a government that wants to limit free opinion more and more, and will therefore think even harder in another direction. That is what you have achieved. If you are serious about the fight against sexism and those who want to do a little less dogmatic than you do with any battle, then you would be willing not only to evaluate these laws, but also to use all the research for them. I repeat: all investigations, including, for example, those of Jogchum Vrielink, who really is not in our camp and who makes it quite clear that it is a counter-law that just increases the problem. If you dare to say that a law made in 2017 on the basis of the nasty things women have to go through on a daily basis, that it has been successful, because Jeffke Hoeyberghs has been deprived of his rights for 5 years, then I would like to walk through Brussels with you and ask all those women how much safer they have become. That should be your goal. Don't get your dogmatically right, because in your answer you have made that quite clear again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u138	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Barbara Pas and Valerie Van Peel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, attached to the Minister for Mobility, - having regard to the conviction at first instance of Mr Jeff Hoeyberghs in which indecent statements were dismissed as "inciting hatred and discrimination"; - whereas such court rulings are contrary to the fundamental right to freedom of expression; - having regard to the sharp reactions to the condemnation from both political and academic quarters; - having regard to the academic plea for the abolition of the so-called "Sexism Act', which is far too widely interpreted, leading to legal uncertainty; - considering that the scope of the Sexism Act falls short of its purpose; asks the government - abolish the sexism law as it exists today or at least drastically reduce its scope; - to analyse all existing legislation which undermines the right to freedom of expression and, where appropriate, to define its scope more clearly." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Ms Valerie Van Peel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, Assistant to the Minister of Mobility, - in the light of the conviction at first instance of Mr. Jeff Hoeyberghs, whose indecent remarks were considered to be "incitement to hatred and discrimination"; Whereas such judicial decisions run counter to the fundamental right to freedom of expression; - in view of the strong reactions that this condemnation has aroused both in politics and in academia; - in view of the academic advocacy to repeal the law on combating sexism because it is far too much subject to interpretation, which leads to legal uncertainty; Whereas the scope of the law on combating sexism is lacking its objective; asks the government - repeal the existing law on the fight against sexism or, at least, substantially restrict its scope; - to submit to an analysis any existing legislation affecting the right to freedom of expression and, where appropriate, to define more clearly the scope of its application." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of the ladies Barbara Pas and Valerie Van Peel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, attached to the Minister for Mobility, - having regard to Article 10 of the ECHR, which guarantees freedom of expression; - whereas Article 19 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of expression, - whereas Article 2 of the Law of 22 May 2014 on combating sexism in public space and amending the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination in order to punish the act of discrimination contains such a broad definition of crime that it can cover almost any insult and thus affect to a large extent freedom of expression; - considering certain scientific research which shows that the objectives of anti-discrimination laws are not achieved and that the laws are even negative side effects; - considering the need to guarantee freedom of expression; - considering the need to ensure equal opportunities; - considering the need, in a democratic society, for serenity, proportionality and subsidiarity in matters relating to freedom of expression and equal opportunities; - having regard to a number of recent judgments concerning restrictions on freedom of expression; - having regard to the policy paper of 29 October 2021 of State Secretary Schlitz, which states: "Just that lack of clarity complicates the task of the judge to determine whether there is a crime and a violation of the laws on sexism', asks the government - to carry out an overall evaluation of existing anti-discrimination laws based on scientific research; - organise a debate on the desirability of the law of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism or a more clearly defined crime; - make and/or consider subsequent proposals for improvement." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Valerie Van Peel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Ms Valerie Van Peel and the reply of the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, Assistant to the Minister of Mobility, - Whereas Article 10 of the ECHR guarantees freedom of expression; - Whereas Article 19 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of expression; - Whereas Article 2 of the Act of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in the public sphere and to amend the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination in order to penalise the act of discrimination contains such a broad definition of the offence that it can apply to virtually any insult and therefore affects, to a large extent, freedom of expression; - Considering certain scientific studies showing that the objectives of anti-discrimination laws are not achieved and that these laws even have adverse collateral effects; - Considering the need to guarantee freedom of expression; - considering the need to ensure equal opportunities; - considering the serenity, proportionality and subsidiarity that a democratic society needs in matters relating to freedom of expression and equal opportunities; - considering certain recent judicial decisions on restrictions on freedom of expression; - Considering the general policy note of 29 October by Secretary of State Schlitz, stating that: "It is precisely this lack of clarity which complicates the task of the judge when he or she has to decide whether there is a crime and a violation of the laws on sexism"; asks the government - to carry out, on the basis of scientific studies, an overall assessment of existing anti-discrimination laws; - to organise a debate on the timeliness of the law of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism or a more clearly defined offence; - to draw up and/or consider proposals for improvement resulting from this debate." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Wouter De Vriendt, Ms. Melissa Depraetere, by heren Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej in Benoît Piedboeuf in mevrouw Maggie De Block. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej and Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Maggie De Block. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u139	Madam Chair, I ask for urgency in voting on the motion outright.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u140	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my previous interplay on this subject dates back to the end of October. I asked you if you had taken note of the report ordered by the Walloon Government on 8 October. It was mainly about the chapter that also concerns a lot of federal aspects. I asked you about a state of affairs of the learning committee that you yourself had announced a few days after the disaster. You replied that it was absolutely important to draw the necessary lessons, you reiterated that, but that the Walloon report was only a preliminary document and that you wished to proceed calmly and thoughtfully. About the learning board, you said that the tender was ongoing. Today, six months after the disaster, I'm back here. Meanwhile, the second part of the study, ordered by the Walloon government, has been delivered. The report at the beginning of December contains a number of recommendations, including on federal matters. Is that the end of the Walloon government's work? Certainly not, there is also the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and we must now look at the recommendations, what we are going to deal with as a priority, how we are going to integrate these lessons and what timing we need to set up. Is the work done? No, of course not, but we already have a basis to work on. However, your announced learning committee is still not here today. I think that's incredible. You said yourself that you attach great importance to the lessons learned and that you would organise that learning committee. I really don't understand why that should take so long. People are expecting an answer. And not only do people expect an answer, but our crisis structures really do need a thorough assessment. I'm gonna hit that hard. I'll take you to the committee meeting on September 1st. The committee had been convened early. We have to be added here in quotes, because we have had to wait a few weeks before we could ask our questions. There it was said that a committee of inquiry or a special parliamentary committee was not really necessary. The majority didn't think that was necessary, because the learning committee would certainly accept that. Something was going to come, something independent and Parliament was going to be able to do its part. In the same committee, on 1 September, I proposed that we at least work with a list of quick wins. What matters should we look at as a matter of priority? In a new disaster, we already had something working on. You were quite capable of doing so, and the majority members were also able to do so. A few weeks later, you said that those quick wins weren't that simple after all. After all, everything is related to each other. In the meantime, six months have passed and that learning board still has to start. We all know that we need to learn from crises. However, it remains a real problem and that is not the first time. In the corona committee, we saw it, too. During the hearings, a lot of experts said that we actually took far too little lessons from the first wave for the second and other waves. A great deal has already been done about the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on 22 March. We have been promised that by last summer we will have a table showing the state of play of all the recommendations. Meanwhile, we're six months later and we haven't had that table yet. Then how can we follow that up? I am really complaining about a general lack of serious to tackle things in a structural manner and to come here with content. I would have much preferred to discuss with you the content of recommendations and not when we can start. It is absolutely the duty of everyone, and certainly of you, to make an evaluation with open eyes. The word evaluation scares some people already. I might call it a reflection period or a feedback. We're not going to evaluate people, we're going to evaluate systems. It is not enough simply to make recommendations. Priority should be given to it. A tractor must be set up, a service or an organization that really needs to grab certain things. Then we need to integrate all these lessons into existing structures and processes. We really need to get to work on that. It is by no means the intention to identify guilty or scapegoats. It's called blameless learning in professional jargon. This is about the open debate, not about who did what wrong and what information was given. Learning Blameless, looking at what went well and wrong, what needs to be improved, what the priorities are, when to do so and how to spread them. Many people do very good business within their own discipline or service, but it does not become embedded within the larger system. That is why absolute cultural change is needed. People on the ground say: if we have to make an evaluation of our own functioning, we do, but we do not dare to be too critical about our partner services, because if we are critical, they will also be critical. So one gets a kind of hedgehog theorem, in which an objective, fair evaluation is impossible. We must also admit that we Belgians are getting over that quickly. It is said that it has passed, a lot has gone wrong, but back to the order of the day, back to the next crisis. That's gotta come out. I predict that you will say that everything has already happened. Even if we do not yet have a learning board, I am convinced that many services have already delivered everything. However, that is not what I mean by a real evaluation. That's not enough. You know if we're gonna learn some real lessons, we're gonna have to change it. That's why I have the following questions. Can you tell me when the learning board is really going to start and why it took so long? What will be the specific task? How will this committee be assembled? In what way will Parliament be involved, because that is what we have been promised? What results do you expect and at what timing? Can you also tell us what has happened in the meantime in anticipation of the learning board? What cases have been dealt with? I am thinking, for example, of the evacuation. We all know that the information provided to the affected people has not gone far enough, especially with regard to the evacuation. Some people got the message to stay home. Others got the message to leave. The governor decides to evacuate. The mayors say that people can choose for themselves. What happened there in the meantime? That's of prime importance, isn't it? There could be a crisis tomorrow, a flood or something else, and we also need to evacuate. Has that process been revisited and reworked in the meantime? And then my final question, do you agree with me that we absolutely must strive for an open debriefing culture, much more open than today, without pointing fingers? How do you look at it and how do you want to stimulate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u141	Madam President, Madam Minister, it is obviously not a matter of cheerfulness that you are being brought back tonight to ask for an inquiry. If that is the case, there is a real urgency. You were already told in September. It was repeated to you in another session and repeated to you again through an inquiry last October. Tomorrow will be six months. It's both very long and very short. But six months is extremely long to implement what you had to do. So far, however, we have not seen much happen, despite your commitments on this issue. If you are brought back this evening, it is not only because there is an emergency but also because there are men and women behind these arrests who continue to be plunged into deep distress in the middle of winter, in damp and cold conditions, and who are still waiting for answers today, not only in the immediate future to find housing, to activate insurance, to take the necessary administrative steps, but also, in the longer term, to ask themselves what has happened. So it is not a question of saying that it is the fault of either or that the other did not do that, etc. but rather to try to give them an answer by telling them that there may have been, surely, a lack of coordination of services. There has been a lack of information and a non-evacuation - I have called you very strongly on this point last time - i.e. a non-execution, of those orders that were taken by the governor. I would remind you that in this mission, it is as if you were acting. As a result, these evacuations were not very late but were requested by arrest in some areas. If we bring you back tonight, it's because the distress is really deep. I know you went there, like many members of the government at the time, but I still invite you, as I did last time, to come to our region. You will realize that in Trooz, especially in Pepinster, in Verviers, in the most affected regions, there are still a lot of people in the greatest disarray. It is not a dark political intervention that I want to make tonight, nor to castigate or nail someone to the pillori. This will not advance the debate, nor will it help people on the spot. If I chose to make this inquiry tonight, and ask you to come back, it's really for these people. Indeed, every day I receive messages saying, "Vanessa, how can this problem be solved?" A quarter of an hour ago, a school was in the greatest disarray because it doesn't follow in terms of repairs, paintings, amenities. You're gonna tell me you're not responsible for the school. But nobody wins by saying, "It's not me, it's the other." I invite you to hear these arrests tonight. The aim is not to hold you politically, but we must fulfil this role as agents, in the hope that you will provide an answer. The Learning Commission has not yet been established. You were talking about December 15th. We are in mid-January - and so we are very late. We were already late in drawing up a specifications for ordering studies, some of which we knew in advance. It's even more so now. What about this civil protection reform that has been called for and voted on in the form of a resolution by Parliament? There was a request to review the reform that was poorly carried out under the previous legislature. You also made a commitment to quickly develop small evaluations for better functioning, because this could happen again in a month's time. Last week, huge weather reappeared in the province of Liège. I assure you, people were scared. What are you doing in all these evaluations? We expect answers, not for us, but for the inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u142	Madam President, Minister, you are here tonight to respond to inquiries about the floods that our country experienced last summer. Today, at 8 p.m., a programme on the state of the situation six months after the floods was broadcast on the RTBF. Let me give you an example that was cited in this program. In Ensival is Charlotte's house, which is still devastated. Work has not begun. Charlotte received a total of 7,500 euros while just for her boiler, she had to pay 6,000 euros, added to that 2,500 euros for electricity. In addition, it must still pay its mortgage and the rent of the container in which it is housed pending the repair of its house. Ironically, those who have been relocated to a container who have to pay their mortgage for their damaged home have to pay a rent. The situation in which some of our fellow citizens find themselves after these floods is simply a matter of total indecency! Things should have moved forward the day after the floods, but nothing progresses. At the time, we proposed the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate the matter and examine what did not work or was respected, in order to find solutions and give answers to our fellow citizens. And this request for a committee of inquiry has been swept away by this Parliament. And you yourself refused it on the pretext that it was superfluous, that we were going to make a learning commission to learn from this experience. Where is this commission, minister? Six months later, where is she? What has been done for the past six months? We have come with a multitude of alternatives, demands, constructive ideas in the interests of the people, because that is what it is today. It's not about politics, it's about politics. It's about politics. It is about the lives and fate of the citizens who have been suffering for six months and nothing has been done! Therefore, I do not know how to interpret the word "emergency". But when we called you in September, we have already mentioned the emergency situation, we have already mentioned the dozens of messages that we receive every day from those who call for help, who call for government action and nothing has been done. We are still waiting for the answers to the questions asked a few months ago. The MRI was not a subscriber to the European flood awareness system at the time of the July floods. Is that the case today? MRI cannot prevent a disaster until 12 hours before it occurs. Is it possible today to do so sooner? There is no federal evacuation plan. It is the mayors or governors who decide to announce the evacuations, which causes great disorganization. There is no unity of command in the assistance provided. The federal phase was too short (from 15 to 26 July) and a federal accompaniment cell was relaunched, which was back on 5 August. There is no prevention plan either. I have consulted the website: the prevention plan is on a page A4! Is that what our fellow citizens deserve, who have suffered from a catastrophe that the country has never experienced? Is that what they are given as a prevention plan? Is this the work that has been done for six months? What is your disaster prevention plan? What did you do for six months? We're being arrested every day and I'm embarrassed to tell the victims that I can't do anything more. I tell them that I asked the minister, that I asked questions, that I made bills, that I proposed a commission of inquiry. What more can I do since the minister is not moving? Minister, what is your plan to respond to the victims who have been in this situation for six months?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not wrong to attach great importance to proper evaluation and preparation. Allow me, however, to point out something else first. We have indeed been there for the victims of the storm of mid-July 2021. The federal support cell that we have created continues to support the Walloon Region and the affected municipalities in the reconstruction process. Just yesterday, the governors said that the six-month bilan of federal aid and the operation of the CAF are impressive. Of course, the needs on the ground remain great at the same time. That is extremely difficult for the victims and very poignant. I have explained the operation and results of the Federal Support Cell (FAC) on several occasions in recent months. Since December, the CAF has expanded its efforts to support local authorities, particularly in the context of prevention and emergency planning, while remaining mobilised for ad hoc operations or emergencies. In December, the CAF continued its partnership with volunteer associations to transport waste collected along streams. In consultation with the municipalities concerned, the CAF also carried out the inspection of the piles of residual waste in order to help the Walloon Region, SPAQUE, the municipalities and the intercommunal communities to find appropriate solutions. As far as prevention is concerned, it has participated in the establishment of a regional assessment cell in case of pre-warning or flood alerts. Together with the mayors concerned and the governors' services, it carried out a 2021 winter emergency plan on flood risks in the Vesdre and Ourthe basins. This work will form the basis for the various flood management recommendations. As you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, we are not inactive. Mr Boukili, I therefore think that you are mistaken when you say that nothing is moving or that nothing has been done. Maybe you don't know the situation on the ground. Perhaps you are not aware of the actions that have been carried out. But it's wrong to say we didn't do anything. In addition, the Federal Support Cell mobilized has demonstrated and continues to prove itself during the reconstruction period. At the same time, we have also worked towards better integration of the national logistics hub in emergency planning. This hub was created for the management of the covid crisis and for the preparation of the Brexit. Through the hub, the necessary national logistical resources can be equitably distributed, in times of crisis, among the various local authorities who request it. Within the National Crisis Centre, a first study was conducted to determine how a common national mass evacuation strategy can be developed within the international framework. Mr Boukili, the flood risk sheet published on the site gives citizens advice on flood prevention and response. This platform also provides links to the various agencies involved in flood management, but does not provide a comprehensive overview of prevention. The fact sheet therefore does not, in any case, constitute an exhaustive list of the authorities' preparation for the risks of flooding or an overview of emergency planning in Belgium. In addition to the actions I just mentioned, there is the Paragon project of the Crisis Centre that will replace the current Incident and Crisis Management System system and that will be rolled out more quickly. This is important because it can contribute to the imagery. The interchangeability of information will be facilitated through connections with all available data sources. In addition, Mrs Ingels, one of the quick wins we referred to earlier is that BE-alert will be further developed and optimized. On 6 January, the National Crisis Centre re-tested the BE alert alert system, as it regularly does. At that time, a record number of over 3.5 million text messages were sent across Wallonia. The results of this test are analysed in order to make the system even more performant and we do not need to wait for a full analysis of the crisis structures. These are things that we have been working on and which will help to improve the situation in the short term. In addition, a new, more advantageous contract of BE-alert will be offered to cities and municipalities by the summer, which will reduce the costs for the municipalities by lowering the threshold for using the system, which should also give rise to a more widespread use of the system. Today, 86 percent of cities and municipalities have already been subscribed. It is also intended that this more advantageous contract should bring it up to 100 % in the short term. So we continue to work, and that is not an easy task. You know that we live in a complex country and that we have to take into account many different structures, but that does not stop us, because we are looking for moments of introspection and reflection. I have indeed said from the outset that I attach great importance to this thorough evaluation of the various crises. Unfortunately, the flood crisis was one of the biggest, but we have had to go through the covid crisis together so far, there has been the cyber attack on the FPS Home Affairs network and so on. It is also certain that if we look at the future, the structure for crisis management in a complex country like ours will have to cope with an increasing number of crises. So we are definitely taking the necessary steps. Mrs Ingels, when you speak of a lack of carelessness, I find that inappropriate. I'll take note of that, but, of course, leave that on your behalf. There have also been evaluations of what we did and what happened during those floods. As you are well aware, there is always an initial assessment of aid after the floods by the various disciplines involved after the end of the federal phase with a so-called hotwash. The National Crisis Centre is currently conducting a thorough debriefing. Not only do they do so, they work together with their partners who were involved in the management of that crisis. In the short term, the Crisis Centre will produce an integrated report. It is important that the CAF was also asked to participate in this process, as this could also reflect on the division of powers between federal and regional authorities in the organisation of aid after a crisis, but also possibly for the exchange of information, crucial in the management of a crisis. I am convinced that an overall evaluation of the various components will help governments to adapt and integrate the emergency plans each of them has drawn up at their level and also annually. Furthermore, in the implementation of the vote in Parliament, by Mrs Mats mentioned, I started an evaluation of the reform of civil protection. Since the reform, although not long ago, questions have been raised about the future and role of Civil Protection, about the manpower, location, removal times and the way of organisation. In the aftermath of the floods, many different ideas have been launched on the structure of civil protection, cooperation with fire brigades, relief zones and central management. I think it is important to combine the different ideas that have emerged and to get to work on them. I can confirm that the order is now in progress. Scientists from the universities of Liège and Hasselt will first of all assess the expectations of the various partners, not only the actors in the field, but also, of course, those involved and potential users of this service. The start meeting of that mission took place in December and the final conclusions, to be expected in August, will also be submitted to Parliament, but we will be able to discuss regularly the progress and outcome of that investigation before that date. One of the quick wins, but not a walk in the park, is that we have meanwhile been able to take the necessary steps and decisions to fill missing functions in the Civilian Protection Staff Framework. We established it when I took office in October 2020, and I decided to make it a priority to complement it. To this end, I have also increased the investment budget for civil protection by EUR 1 million. This is therefore also a short-term solution to ensure that there are more civil protection personnel and that the framework is completed so that they can also be deployed in times of crisis. As far as the Education Committee on Floods is concerned, we have launched a public contract to organise it with external partners. After all, it is important that this can be done with the necessary objectivity, so that an independent party can study the way the crisis is handled, find lessons and make suggestions for improvement. To be honest, I would have preferred that to happen more quickly, Mrs Ingels, that is clear, but we have had to go through the procedures of public procurement. The analysis of the offer is currently under way and I have good hope of it. In any case, it is my great ambition to be able to assign that mission in the short term, so that it can start quickly and move forward quickly. As I promised from the outset, in the announcement of that learning committee, Parliament will also be involved and informed about the execution of the public contract. To this end, we have included in the handbook in particular that Parliament will be informed. For example, there will be a report on the working method at the start of the contract, which could thus be done in the relatively short term, on progress, for example once or twice during implementation and at a more extensive time, and finally on the final report. That is why I certainly hope to be able to make progress in the coming months with that learning committee and certainly to identify the bottlenecks and the further quick wins. As regards trade with neighbouring countries, the following initiatives may be mentioned. Under the European Civil Protection Mechanism, the National Crisis Centre and Civil Protection participated in an information day in which all flood-affected countries shared their experiences on the problems they encountered during the floods of July 2021. At a meeting of the network of Directors-General of the European Crisis Centres on 14 September, the Benelux countries and Germany shared the major challenges they faced and some good practices emerged from these events. During the presentation of the review of the activities of the Belgian Benelux Presidency programme in 2021, Luxembourg also presented its programme for its 2022 Presidency and this programme contains a crisis meeting in March or April 2022 in Luxembourg. The idea is to combine a workshop on floods with an official visit to the new premises of the Office of the High Commissioner for National Protection of Luxembourg, and the intention is to invite Benelux partners as well as Germany and France. It is also envisaged to involve technical experts, experts in crisis management and embassies. The lessons learned from this sharing of experiences, as well as from the various debriefings and evaluations, will obviously be integrated into emergency planning. Finally, in order to monitor the coherence between all the evaluations and studies launched and received by the other authorities and to make recommendations on this basis, it is important that we should also be able to consult experts with the necessary experience, such as many former governors, who have experienced what it is like to manage certain crises. It is important that we also listen to them in order to make crisis management future-proof. So let us think about solutions together. Allow me to say that I have not really heard it in your interviews, despite its announcements. It is now certainly time to think about what we can do in concrete terms. We must go beyond asking questions and coming up with solutions. I would like to conclude by saying that a thorough preparation is not equivalent to a standstill. On the contrary, sound preparation enables us to make informed and, above all, sustainable decisions. After all, I do not want to carry out or announce any reform that we will have to review in no time. I am convinced that our country will be able to take major steps towards more effective crisis management in the coming months. So we do not just go into the order of the day; we grab hold of the file in all its complexity and get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u144	Madam Minister, you are asking for solutions, I will try to formulate some. Is there a need for a tender after a disaster, which should last six months? I think the government can still conclude framework contracts. It was already one of the recommendations of the Covid Committee to conclude framework contracts with experts, universities, knowledge centres. One can easily send experts to, among other things, an evaluation cell or a policy cell. Research can also be done. That is a concrete proposal. I urge you to propose to the government to work with framework contracts so that you do not have to make a full tender and achieve faster results. I note that the Walloon Government has managed to make a tender very quickly and has already completed two reports. I would very much like to discuss content with you, but we have nothing today. There are no proposals here. We don't have anything. It would have been better if we had been able to work on a committee of inquiry or a special committee from the outset. However, the promise made by the Committee on Education has pushed everything forward and we are waiting for something to come. We have a very good system of emergency planning and crisis management in this country - and I really mean this. This consists of an operational part, a policy part at three levels with respect for the principle of subsidiarity. That's very good, but there's also some dynamics. So we need to learn what can be done better and differently. Of course we all want to discuss content, but nothing is coming. If we ask questions about the learning committee, the answer is that the call for tenders is ongoing. We could follow the example of the Netherlands with its independent research agency. But I do not think it is a solution to bring some people together in a nice office and to wait until the next crisis. It is much more useful to work centrally in a permanent network so that experts from universities and research centres can help with the assessment of crises. In a recent book on the myths of crisis management, I read that one must constantly question oneself. One must always ask oneself why one does something, what is right about it and what is wrong about it. That's just a way of being. My criticism is not to point the finger at anyone or to say that nothing happens, but to warn that the right things do not happen. If I say that people are not seriously engaged, then I do not mean that the services are not seriously engaged and that they are not doing their job or that they are not trying to improve things, but something is missing. I realize that the crisis centre is doing its best to collect and analyse all the data, but the system is complex and organic and it is evolving. The role of the governors is also important. Were they sitting with them? How do they see that? How did they experience it? A lot of things went wrong at the governor's level, didn't they? I refer to the reports I have received, in which I read how the governors were told that they were announcing the federal phase, but that nothing changed for them and a governor asked if he should pass through the federal policy level for all decisions. Something is missing from the flow of information. One has to know who's doing what. My question is to deal with the matter thoroughly, and I shall also table a motion for a resolution to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u145	Madam Minister, I will return to the province of Liège tonight with a lot of statements and very little concrete things! When you tell us you have to come with solutions, it's the hospital that makes fun of charity! We've been asking you for solutions for months, and not at the rush! After six months, it cannot be considered that it is the rush and that we act in the greatest improvisation. Things can be done directly. There may be coordination, networking, evaluation, without having to go through a specification or the installation of this learning commission, which may one day provide recommendations. What will we do tomorrow or in a month's time if there is a climate disaster of this magnitude? Are the services ready, having learned the lessons from what happened, looking where it didn't work? I don't think so! It's interesting to think about the long term but we're in an emergency! You say that we may have something for civil protection in August, but I would remind you that in 2020 a resolution was adopted by a majority of this Parliament to review civil protection reform. In this proposal, there are leads, there are demands. This was done on the basis of an evaluation of civil protection reform, for which we heard many speakers in the Committee on the Interior. This resolution was produced as a result of that. Should we do the job again? We don't think so. In this motion for a resolution there are the areas on which we must work. That is one point on which we could move forward! It's too easy to say we're asking questions! That's not true, we're not just asking questions! We come to sound the alarm because, really, people are in a lot of disarray. But also, as I've already told you, when people don't know the answers or understand what happened, they can't make progress in their personal reconstruction either. They continue to be traumatized. Last week, when important rain warnings were announced, warning of flood levels in rivers, it was freaking out in every corner, and it's quite normal because these people know what they've been through. What are the leads? Last week, for example, when there was a pre-warning, were there any procedures in progress? Have any populations been warned? Have they been told, "Attention, some rivers are on alert?" Madam Minister, I think it is too simple to say that the opposition is simply denouncing! That's not true! We have come constantly with leads. We offered you our help. We believe that Parliament can help you in all your tasks. They don't say it's simple. You don't say you can go there easily by doing something like that. No! It does require work, but it is an urgent task because tomorrow we are not immune from a new disaster and we cannot accept that at some point we have not learned the lessons of the immense disaster that struck our country on 14 and 15 July. We really hope that you will implement things. That's what we expect from you. It is not a question of thinking or thinking, but of deciding and finally putting concrete things on the table. Thank you. Madam Chair, I have tabled a motion for recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u146	Minister, I had the hope today of getting more concrete answers. But you went so far as to say that the complaints and messages I receive and try to convey here are not correct and that I do not know the ground. Here are some testimonials of the field. I will first mention the case of Youcef, to whom the insurances gave 30 000 euros, while the amount of his work amounted to 110 000 euros. Nancy had completely renovated her house in 2015, but whose insurance decided from the outset to apply a devaluation of 25%. Maria still hasn't seen the expert six months after the floods. The inhabitants of the Vesdre Valley tell us: "Six months later, hundreds of families have nothing to live on and the parliamentary committee at Walloon level has not activated anything as measures relating to the reinforcement of resources at the dam, nor as a new process for the disaster plan, nor as the creation of bridges of direct communication between the various weather and political bodies. Sandy and her companion live with their six-month-old baby in their disaster-stricken home in Chaudfontaine without heating and electricity, a situation that is beginning to become complicated in the light of current winter temperatures. People always camp at home and don't cook, eat sandwiches, because they don't have gas or gas. That is the reality of the ground, Minister! You tell me about your learning commission, studies, calls, public offers, etc. It doesn't change people's daily lives. In addition, you are excited to come here and tell us that we are asking questions and that we are not proposing any solutions. But for the past six months, we've been offering you solutions all the time, but you can't hear them! But I'll be a good player and I'll tell you again. You'll tell me what you think. For example, free electricity for the victims; removal of the ceiling on insurance benefits (a PTB bill that I invite you to vote on); establishment of a commission of inquiry to answer really the question of what happened, where the problem is, and to get answers on the matter); going back to the withdrawal of 800 civil protection officers; reopening the barracks, refinancing the emergency areas in compliance with federal obligations;... And I can continue, Madam Minister, with demands, there are solutions, there are! The problem is, it's not moving! No initiative is taken at the government level. And that, people live it on a daily basis, which is why they question us. When we receive these testimonies, what should we tell people? "No, the minister said she did things. You're lying. It's not like that." But there is your speech, and there is the reality that we see. There's your speech, and there's what people tell us. Minister, you can tell us what you want here, but reality, we see it on the ground. I invite you to go there to see concretely that since the Vivaldi withdrew the army from the field, people no longer have to eat from door to door. It hasn't been since the army left. Who took over this responsibility? No one. That's the reality of the field! Then, before you come to sweep away the testimonies that are brought to you, and the criticisms that are made of your policy, go see! For six months, I have been following what has been said: we have not seen anything. You can say what you want here. We didn't see anything. If you want us to be concrete, let us make a commission of inquiry to know the problems, what happened, what did not work and what can be answered. But you don't want to hear it! We give you solutions, but you don't want them. You keep going in your bubble. It's all right for you. But no, that is not the case, Madam Minister! It's time to act, and six months is already too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u147	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Yngvild Ingels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Yngvild Ingels and Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the severe floods that hit our country from 12 to 15 July 2021 and caused a lot of human and material damage; - considering that there are still a lot of questions about this, such as why we were not better prepared for flood management, why the population was not evacuated more quickly, why it took so long for the victims of their roofs to be helped, why there seemed to be insufficient people and resources to help the victims of the flood, why crisis communication was failing, etc.; - whereas the disaster concerned a large part of Walloon powers, but certainly also some federal aspects such as the role of the Crisis Centre, the rules on emergency planning and crisis management, the identification and analysis of priority risks, the role of provincial governors and more; - whereas we need to learn from each disaster or emergency in order to avoid the same errors in a future disaster or emergency; - whereas six months have passed since the floods and the Minister of the Interior have not even begun to draw those lessons; - whereas this is not in line with the Prime Minister's earlier undertaking to set up a learning commission as soon as possible; - whereas, after the disaster, the Walloon Parliament immediately took off from its starting blocks, carried out an evaluation and has already been able to draw up concrete recommendations; - noting that the majority parties in the federal parliament are unfortunately unwilling to carry out this investigation seriously at the federal level (for its relevant aspects) and to set up a committee of inquiry for this purpose, according to proposal No. 55K2168 of the N-VA fraction; asks the government - to start as soon as possible with an operational learning committee which makes an adequate evaluation of the federal aspects of this disaster and makes concrete recommendations for improvement towards the future; - to draw up, as soon as possible, a quick win list of the points of improvement that have been addressed or can still be addressed in the short term, to implement them (further) and to report on them to the Chamber; - to promote an open debriefing culture in our country." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Yngvild Ingels and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the appeals of Ms. Yngvild Ingels and Ms. Vanessa Matz and Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the severe floods that struck our country from 12 to 15 July 2021 and caused numerous human and material damage; - considering the lack of answers to many questions on this subject, namely why we were not better prepared for flood management, why the citizens were not evacuated faster, why it was necessary to wait so long before the victims were evacuated from their homes, why we did not have sufficient staff and resources to help the victims in the affected areas, why crisis communication did not work properly, etc.; - Whereas the disaster concerned much of Walloon competence, but certain aspects, such as the role of the Crisis Centre, the regulation of emergency planning and crisis management, the identification and analysis of priority risks, the role of provincial governors, etc., were the responsibility of the Federal State; - Whereas we must learn from each disaster or emergency in order to avoid repeating the same mistakes in the event of a disaster or future emergency; - Considering that six months have already passed since the floods and that the Minister of the Interior has not even begun to learn from them; - Whereas this attitude does not correspond to the Minister's earlier promise to set up an apprenticeship commission for this purpose as quickly as possible; - whereas the Walloon Parliament reacted immediately after the disaster, undertook an evaluation and was already able to make concrete recommendations; - noting that the parties of the majority in the Federal Parliament are unfortunately not willing to carry out this inquiry seriously also at the federal level (for aspects falling within its competence) and to set up a commission of inquiry for this purpose, as suggested by proposal No 55K2168 of the N-VA Group; asks the government - to set up an operational learning commission as soon as possible to carry out a relevant assessment of the federal aspects of this disaster and to formulate concrete recommendations for improvement for the future; - to draw up as quickly as possible a list of quick wins containing points which have been improved or can still be improved in the short term, to (continue to) implement these elements and to report to the House; - to promote an open debriefing culture in our country." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Yngvild Ingels and Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the devastating floods of 14 and 15 July last; - having regard to the new problems of natural disasters and, in particular, the severe storms affecting our country and the need for effective crisis management; - whereas the Minister has undertaken to set up a learning commission at the beginning of this year with the aim of evaluating the response to the floods of 14 and 15 July last year and to draw lessons from them in the form of recommendations in order to manage a crisis of this magnitude even better; - whereas, in the course of its work, the Committee would be instructed to report to Parliament on the evaluation of its work; - whereas it is also intended to set up an advisory committee to ensure the impartiality and quality of work; - whereas, six months after the storm hit our country badly, there was still no learning committee and no advisory committee, although there is a clear risk of flooding in our country; calls on the Government to exercise its powers in the management of natural disasters, and 1. to set up without delay a learning committee and a guidance committee to improve crisis management policies, in particular with regard to flood management; 2. notify Parliament as soon as possible of a timetable relating to point 1 and to the organisation of parliamentary debates; 3. make progress by listing a number of quick wins and putting them into practice immediately. Quick wins should include, in particular, the establishment of an extreme precipitation warning system accessible to the whole country, the improvement of the exchange of information between the various services and in particular between fire brigades (D1), civil protection (D1 and D4) and police (D3), the improvement of communication with citizens, etc." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the appeals of Ms. Yngvild Ingels and Ms. Vanessa Matz and Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the devastating floods of 14 and 15 July; - considering the new problem of natural disasters, in particular the weather which affects our country, and the need for effective crisis management; - considering the Minister's commitment to set up, at the beginning of this year, a learning commission to assess flood management on 14 and 15 July, and to draw lessons from it in the form of recommendations, in order to be able to better manage a crisis of this magnitude; Whereas, as part of its work, the Learning Committee would be responsible for reporting on the evaluation of its work to Parliament; Whereas provision is also made for the establishment of an accompanying committee to ensure the impartiality and quality of the work; - Whereas six months after the severe weather in our country, neither the apprenticeship committee nor the accompanying committee have yet emerged when our country is at a certain risk of flooding; calls on the government to assume its competence in the management of natural disasters and to: 1. Establish as soon as possible a learning committee and a accompanying committee to improve the crisis management policy in the context of floods in particular; 2. communicate to Parliament as soon as possible a timetable relating to item 1 and the organisation of debates in Parliament; 3. progress by listing a number of "quick wins" and making them immediately. The term "quick wins" includes: the establishment of a rain warning system accessible to the whole country, the improvement of the exchange of information between different disciplines, including firefighters (D1), civil protection (D1 and D4) and the police (D3), the improvement of communication to citizens, etc." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Yngvild Ingels and Mrs Vanessa Matz and Mr Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - whereas on 14, 15 and 16 July 2021, 39 people were killed by the floods and some 50,000 houses were destroyed by the water; - whereas there is no federal plan today in the event of a flood or natural disaster; - leaving the initiative to the municipalities to draw up a special and specific plan to deal with floods or other natural disasters; - whereas the Royal Meteorological Institute (RMI) was not affiliated to the European Flood Alert System (EFAS) at the time of the floods in July; - whereas the Royal Meteorological Institute (RMI) can warn of this not only 12 hours before a disaster occurs; - whereas the reform of the previous government has seriously weakened civil protection and has not been able to provide effective assistance to the victims; - whereas the equipment of the emergency services was not adapted to the situation; - whereas the Government, through the Minister for the Interior, set up a learning commission in October and has not yet been set up; - having regard to the refusal by the majority to set up a committee of inquiry in order to draw conclusions from the failure of the government in terms of prevention and unity of command and to identify the damaging consequences of savings in public services; - whereas there is an urgent need to draw lessons from this disaster in order to avoid the same mistakes being made in the future and in view of the consequences in terms of human life in that file; asks the government - draw up a federal plan to deal with floods and other natural disasters which will be applied by the municipalities; - to bring civil protection staff to the former level and to reopen the barracks closed under the Michel Government; - draw up an inventory of the available equipment and provide the relief zones with what they need." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the appeals of Ms. Yngvild Ingels and Ms. Vanessa Matz and Mr. Nabil Boukili and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - Whereas on 14, 15 and 16 July 2021 39 people died as a result of the floods and about 50,000 houses were devastated by the waters; - Whereas to date there is no federal plan in the event of flooding or natural disasters; Whereas the initiative is left to the municipalities to draw up, or not to draw up, a specific and specific plan to deal with floods or other natural disasters; - Whereas the Royal Meteorological Institute (MRI) was not a subscriber to the European Flood Awareness System (EFAS) at the time of the July floods; - Whereas the Royal Meteorological Institute (MRI) cannot prevent a disaster until 12 hours before it occurs; - Whereas the reform of the previous government has severely defeated Civil Protection, which has been able to respond effectively to the needs of the victims; - Considering that the equipment of the rescue services was unsuitable for the situation; - Considering that the government, by the voice of the Minister of the Interior, had promised a learning commission in October and that it has not yet been established; - considering the refusal of the government majority to organise a commission of inquiry which would have made it possible to draw the conclusions of the government's failures in terms of prevention, unity of command and establishing the harmful effects of austerity in public services; Whereas it is urgent to draw lessons from this disaster so as not to make the same mistakes and considering the consequences in terms of human lives in this case; asks the government - to draw up a federal plan to deal with floods and other natural disasters to be implemented by the municipalities; - to re-establish the Civil Protection force and reopen the barracks closed under the Michel government; - to draw up an inventory of the equipment available and to provide the rescue areas with what is necessary." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Servais Verherstraeten, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf and Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Maggie De Block and Melissa Depraetere. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u148	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the vote on the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u149	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 28 October 2021, a call for candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking female alternate member for Unia/Myria was published in the Belgian Monitor of 17 November 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 28 October 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of Dutch-speaking female alternate member for Unia/Myria was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 November 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Mukaddes Celik; - Ms. Saloua El Moussaoui, lawyer, lecturer in Arteveldehogesschool; - Ms Hannelore Heyligen, diversity policy collaborator in Brussels Economy and Employment; - Ms. Julie Jamaer, lawyer; - Mme Askim Kintziger, coordinatore diversité et inclusion chez De Cronos Groep; - Ms Meral Özcan, business manager at Mozaiek Vastgoed, Professor of Geography Go! Flex Campus Leopoldsburg; - Alexandra Sanchez, content collaborator at Groen'migration and living together', researcher for intercultural transfer to KULeuven. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Mukaddes Celik; - Ms Saloua El Moussaoui, attorney, lecturer at the Arteveldeschool; - Ms Hannelore Heyligen, Policy Officer for Diversity at Brussels Economy and Employment; - Mrs. Julie Jamaer, attorney; - Ms Askim Kintziger, coordinator of diversity and inclusion at De Cronos Groep; - Mrs. Meral Özcan, business manager at Mosaic Real Estate, teacher of geography Go! Flex Campus Leopoldsburg; - Ms Alexandra Sanchez, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitæ of the candidates to the political groups. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u150	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 28 October 2021, an appeal for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 18 November 2021 for the term of office of the Dutch-speaking Registrar of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 28 October 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of the Dutch-speaking Registrar of the Court of Auditors was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 November 2021. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Tine Debusschere, the first auditor-reviser at the Court of Auditors; - Mr. Jasper De Jonge, Director of the Zilverlinde Residential Care Centre in Woluwé Saint-Pierre; - Mrs Veerle Straetemans, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Jan Van Cappelle, treasurer at the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Tine Debusschere, First Auditor-Revisor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Jasper De Jonge, director of the Zilverlinde residential care centre in Sint-Pieters-Leeuw; - Ms Veerle Straetemans, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Jan Van Cappel, economist at the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, the curriculum vitæ of the candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u151	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 November 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 25 November 2021 for the term of office of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 November 2021 for the mandate of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr. Bjorn Verschaeve, Legal Officer of the R Committee; - Mr. Filip Vanneste, subsitut from the Attorney General to the Antwerp Court of Appeal. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Bjorn Verschaeve, attorney at the Committee I; - Mr Filip Vanneste, deputy attorney-general at the Antwerp appeal court. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The special committee responsible for parliamentary support of Committees P and R will hold the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that the curriculum vitæ of the candidates be sent to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u152	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 10 November 2021, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 25 November 2021 for the appointment of a French-speaking alternate member as a doctor of the Central Prison Supervision Board. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2021, a call for candidates for the mandate of French-speaking alternate member with the status of physician of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 November 2021. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates to the Moniteur belge for the appointment of a French-speaking alternate member as a doctor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of a French-speaking alternate member with the status of doctor. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u153	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2021 a sixth call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 25 November 2021 for the terms of office of French-speaking members for all categories ("doctor in medicine", "teacher or professor (emeritus) in law or lawyer" and "militaries in charge of the problem of patients with incurable illness"). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2021, a sixth call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 November 2021 for the mandates of French-speaking Member, for all categories ("doctor in medicine," "doctor of (emeritus) professor of law or attorney" and "circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients"). The following candidacy was submitted: Category "militaries in charge of the problem of patients with incurable disease": Ms Nadeige Struyf. The following application was submitted: category "circles responsible for the problem of incurably ill patients': Ms Nadeige Struyf. The applications submitted for the terms of effective and alternate French-speaking members for the sub-category "teachers or professors (emeritus) in medicine" are insufficient. Insufficient applications have been submitted for the mandates of French-speaking effective and alternate member for the subcategory "doctor of (emeritus) professor of medicine." In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 6(2) of the Act of 29 May 2002 on euthanasia, each language group, for both effective and alternate member terms, must have at least three candidates of each type. In accordance with Article 6 (2), third paragraph, of the Law of 29 May 2002 on euthanasia, each language group shall count at least three candidates of each sex, both for the mandates of an effective member and for the mandates of an alternate member. Whereas to date five Dutch-speaking female applications have been submitted, one Dutch-speaking female application is missing. As five female Dutch-language candidates have been submitted to date, one female Dutch-language candidate is missing. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates for all terms in the Belgian Moniteur. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose to announce a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for all mandates. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u154	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2020, an appeal for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 25 November 2020 for the terms of office of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking members of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "former agents". In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 November 2020 for the mandates of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "ex-mandates'. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Edith Van den Broeck - Mrs. Alice Baudine. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Edith Van den Broeck - Mrs. Alice Baudine. The applications submitted are now sufficient for all categories. At present sufficient applications have been submitted for all categories. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you forward the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that the curriculum vitæ of the candidates be sent to the political groups. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u155	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of November 10, 2021, a third call for candidates for the terms of first and second French alternate member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services was published in the Moniteur belge on November 25, 2021. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 November 2021, a third call for candidates for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Supervisory Committee on Police Services was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 November 2021. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the first and second French alternate members of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the P Committee. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u156	The conditions for the appointment of the members and clerks of the CARE Disciplinary Council have been amended. The conditions of appointment of the members and Registrars of the Disciplinary Board CREG have been amended. The President and the actual and alternate members of the CARE Disciplinary Council, both French and Dutch, have already been appointed. The President and the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking effective and alternate members of the Disciplinary Board CREG have already been appointed. The House is still to appoint the alternate Speaker and the two Registrars. The Chamber shall continue to appoint the deputy chairman and the two Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a new call for candidates for the terms of office of alternate president and of French-speaking and Dutch-speaking clerks of the Disciplinary Council of the CREG. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of Deputy President and of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Registrar of the CREG Disciplinary Board. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u157	The file relating to the application of Article 45 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority in respect of two members of the ODA Steering Committee may be consulted until 18 January 2022. The dossier relating to the application of Article 45 of the Law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority with regard to two members of the Management Committee of the GBA may be consulted until 18 January 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose: 1. to hold a secret vote on the proposal of the Justice Committee on the application of Article 45 of the ODA Act. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret vote in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Members may vote from Thursday 20 January 2022 until Thursday 3 February 2022 at 4 p.m. Their ballot papers are available to the General Secretariat. I would point out that only members can receive the ballot paper, that they must fill it out on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot box will be opened at the plenary meeting on Thursday, 3 February 2022 in Room 3. Since the vote is secret, ballot papers cannot be signed. 2. In the event that the Justice Committee's proposal is followed, refer the case back to the committee to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 45 of the ODA Act. This procedure is adversarial and takes place in camera. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 January 2022, I propose: 1. organise a secret vote on the proposal of the Justice Committee on the application of Article 45 of the GBA Act. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members may vote from Thursday 20 January 2022 until Thursday 3 February 2022 at 4 p.m. Their ballot paper is available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session of Thursday 3 February 2022 in Room 3. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. 2. if the proposal of the Justice Committee is followed, return the file to the committee to initiate the procedure provided for in Article 45 of the GBA Act. This procedure is contradictory and runs with closed doors. No objection? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u158	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u159	Mr. Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the bill entrusting to the Federal Pension Service certain tasks with regard to supplementary pensions of contract staff of provincial and local administrations, No. 2421/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u160	Madam Chair, what is it? Last year, Belfius and Ethias notified a wide range of local, provincial and assimilated governments of the termination of their contract for the management of supplementary pension funds, so that these administrations found themselves faced with this rather important challenge of having to manage supplementary pension funds. For large cities, this does not pose too many problems, because they have enough mass than to turn themselves to the financial markets or the operators or other institutions that offer this type of management. But for small municipalities, it is obviously more difficult. This is why they have turned to different levels of power (regional, but also federal) to try to have support in the conclusion of a contract for the establishment of a central purchasing centre, which would allow for the collective management of these pension funds. Several hundred municipal and provincial governments are spoken of. It is for this reason that a bill has been tabled to allow the SPF Pensions to be a central purchasing body that will interface all these municipal and provincial administrations in order to designate one or more operator(s) to manage these supplementary pension funds for local and provincial agents. That is why urgency is required and requested!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u161	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u162	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 227/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Valerie Van Peel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 227/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u163	Yes 89 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u164	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 232/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Vanessa Matz; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Piedboeuf, Wouter De Vriendt et Servais Verherstraeten. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 232/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Yngvild Ingels; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Vanessa Matz; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block and Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u165	Yes 83 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u167	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u169	Yes 112 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u171	Yes 89 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u172	Vote on Amendment No 47 by Sofie Merckx cs to Rule 47. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Sofie Merckx cs on Article 47. Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u173	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 47 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 47 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Sofie Merckx cs to insert an Article 48(n). Vote on Amendment No 48 by Sofie Merckx cs to insert an article 48(n). Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u174	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Sofie Merckx cs to insert an Article 49(n). Vote on Amendment No 49 by Sofie Merckx cs to insert an article 49(n). Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u175	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u177	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u178	Vote on Amendment No 77 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 132(n). Vote on Amendment No 77 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 132(n). Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u179	Yes 30 Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u181	Yes 82 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] ------------------------------------------------------------------ Vote/Vote 1(MOT227-231) Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, like her group, voted. Vote/Vote 2(MOT232-234) Mrs Kathleen Verhelst, like her group, voted. Vote/Vote 4(1776/4) Mr Christian Leysen has voted like his group. Vote/Vote 5(2314/5) Mr Christian Leysen has voted like his group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-13-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip157x.u182	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 20 January at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday, 20 January, at 2.15 p.m.
