ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Dear colleagues, on 24 February 2022, the Russian Federation launched an unacceptable offensive against Ukraine under international law, which governs the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. All those who love democracy and humanity can only be deeply shocked by this violent act of war. I would like to welcome the presence in the gallery of two representatives of the Embassy of Ukraine in Belgium, Mr. Yehor Pyvovarov, Chargé d'affaires and Mrs. Natalia Anoshyna, Counsellor, who wanted to share this moment with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u3	Ukraine's destiny concerns us all. In coordination with our partners and allies, the European Union has taken without delay unprecedented sanctions against the Russian Federation and has adopted measures to support Ukraine by all means, political, financial, humanitarian and logistical. The Russian military aggression has caused a real wave of shock all over the world but also a magnificent momentum of solidarity. The European Union quickly took a series of initiatives to welcome, in solidarity and in the best conditions, Ukrainian refugees, children, women and men, whom this war condemns to exodus. In Belgium, aid flows from all over the country. Many Belgians work hand in hand with Ukrainians who live and work in Belgium to help the victims of this absurd conflict. For a few days now, our country has been catching many Ukrainian refugees - mainly women and children - who had no choice but to flee their homeland at large. The Belgian population and many public authorities, such as the municipalities, have shown great solidarity by providing support, shelter, consolation and care for these people. We must also make a concrete contribution to helping Ukrainian refugees in Belgium and the population in Ukraine. I have therefore instructed the services of the Chamber to organise a solidarity action in our assembly in the form of a collection of goods and foodstuffs. I invite you all to make a contribution. As you will have noticed, the Ukrainian flag has been flapping on the premises of the Chamber and Senate for over a week now. With this symbolic gesture, we want to condemn this Russian military attack in the strongest possible terms and demand the restoration of Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, the war has unfortunately brought more horror and sorrow to many families, not only in Ukraine but also in Russia. Every lost life is a tragedy. Beyond the media attention to this senseless confrontation there is death, pain, loss, crying and silence. As a sign of support and respect for the pride and courage of the Ukrainian people, but also in tribute to the already far too many victims of this conflict, I invite you to observe a minute of silence, not without listening to a word from our Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u4	Madam President, the government agrees with what you said. The images we have seen over the past two weeks are heartbreaking: a bombing at a children's hospital in Marioepol, bombs dropped on people on the run, often for the second time, after they had to leave the Donbas. Even a war has rules. Russia is flagrantly violating these rules today. The difficulty we face is how to react to an aggressor without contributing to additional human suffering. How are we supposed to respond to an aggressor threatening nuclear weapons? How should we respond to an aggressor who himself attaches little or no value to human life? The only way to stop this human suffering is to stop violence by peaceful means. In the face of Putin's weapons, we are imposing economic sanctions. In the face of aggression, we place a strengthening of our defence. In the face of blind hatred, we put in cold blood. It is now our duty to use these peaceful means as ruthlessly as possible, so that the Kremlin can go only one way, and that is to lay down the weapons and end the bloodshed, this cruel war between two peoples, which have far more things in common than those that separate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, while fighting is raging, while civilians are deliberately targeted by the Russian army, including hospitals, children's hospitals, as Putin was already doing in Aleppo in Syria not so long ago, when the characterization of these acts as war crimes is more than ever, you now have a historic responsibility and you have the opportunity to make history in Versailles earlier. Europe must be at this historic moment in two respects. On the one hand, there is energy. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union buys oil and gas from Russia for hundreds of millions of euros. It's money that goes directly into the war effort. That must stop absolutely. It may not be possible to do so as quickly as the United States or Britain decides, but Europe can make its energy sovereignty its great future. This Europe which once built itself on coal and steel can, tomorrow, build on renewables and nuclear power and exclude gas, first of all Russian gas, from its economy. This can be the construction of the decade. On the other hand, there is the issue of asylum. With two million refugees, we are already in the worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War. We are already in a worse crisis than we were in 2015. Europe, so far, is at the meeting, including – and we must thank them – the very many citizens of our country. There are, however, two flats. First, we continue to receive testimonies from people of African or Indian origin who are arrested, stopped at the Polish, Slovak or Romanian borders. Mr. Secretary of State, you're coming back from these borders. Can you tell us if you have sent the message that this discrimination obviously does not have to be? Secondly, even here in Belgium, thousands of Ukrainians before the Bordet Institute and elsewhere face a certain disorder, a lack of organisation. I know that we are facing an unprecedented crisis, but they need to be welcomed in the best possible conditions. Where are we on this level? Let us make sure, Prime Minister, that Europe is different when you return from Versailles than it is right now. Let her be fairer, more supportive and, above all, stop being a spectator of the world and take up her place!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be very careful to speak in the microphone because a room filled with 150 members does not have the same background noise as when it has only a few dozen. Some people seemed to have difficulty hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u9	Madam President, we obviously associate ourselves with your words and those of the Prime Minister in the face of this tragedy in Ukraine. I take this opportunity to express once again our compassion to these thousands of innocent victims, to those civilians who have not asked for anything, but also to those thousands of refugees who are thrown on the roads of exile. There is indeed, in the head of Europe, a historic challenge. I shall stick, Mr Secretary of State, to the one concerning the reception of refugees. First of all, there is obviously a lot of generosity and that is so much better! Citizens are at a time of generosity, not only with convoys leaving every day, especially to Poland, but also with regard to the reception of these refugees. But there's a mess in Bordet. You announced that Heysel would become another place of reception and registration for these refugees, but that is not enough. It would take a lot more. In Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels, people are waiting for hours in the cold while they have already experienced an extremely difficult chaotic path. This is not acceptable! What measures are you going to put in place to address this disorder? Secondly, there is the challenge of coordination between supply and demand. Many citizens have offered to host people. There are structures, etc. How can this coordination be much better organized to match supply and demand and so that everyone can find a place directly? Finally, we must consider supporting the local authorities that will need resources; I am thinking in particular of the CPAS which will have to deal with the social reception of all these displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u10	Prime Minister, peace and security are not a failure on the continent of Europe, on the contrary. The rudeness, hardness and brutality of the Russian aggressor are a stump in the stomach of every civilized citizen. That fills us with horror. We must therefore continue to support Ukraine in terms of material and moral support. Our security has been guaranteed for almost 75 years by NATO and the European Union, but this crisis shows that security and peace have never been fully achieved. Unfortunately, some saw their geopolitical vision confirmed, others now, hopefully, finally lost their naivety. They should have lost them when we saw what was going on in Syria by Russia. It is clear that peace and security require daily efforts. Prime Minister, you and your European colleagues will soon be at a very important summit. The energy challenges, Russia's strategic decoupling and defence challenges are on the agenda. Solidarity in this new refugee crisis must also be discussed. These are all essential issues for us as Europeans. Much attention must and will be paid to strengthening European defence, within the framework of the EU and within NATO. This debate will also have to be resumed here in our own country, despite the efforts of your government. A strong defense costs a lot of money, but it's like an insurance premium: it costs a lot of money, but if anything happens, you're very happy you paid the premium. What proposals are you going to Versailles with? What will you say there on behalf of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, all the limits of humanity have been exceeded. In fact, a children's hospital was bombed. War crimes are being committed. Millions of refugees are on their way, including very many children alone and women with children. These are all Ukrainians who need a roof over their heads, protection, security and security. Fortunately, in all this misery, I also see a great deal of solidarity, and that will also be necessary, as we may receive up to 100 000 or, who knows, 200,000 refugees on our territory. That's a few times bigger than Syria. I see solidarity among citizens, who are offering a place on a massive scale through the campaign. I'd like to call on you to keep doing that, above all. I also see the voluntarism of the state governments, who are also doing everything possible to provide housing, shelter and guidance. I also see that there is a great deal of demand from the cities and municipalities. Nevertheless, they make every effort to make the best of it. I also see that the federal government wants to manage everything. That's not easy or obvious. The challenges are therefore unseen, but I see a government that wants to rise above itself and that will be necessary. This requires clarity and good agreements. It'll be together or it won't be. What agreements have you made with the Prime Minister, Prime Minister? Have you also advocated the spread of refugees across cities and municipalities, for example through a compulsory distribution plan? I would also like to refer to a second point, namely exploitation, because where people are in precarious conditions, there is exploitation. Prime Minister, I would like to call on you to bring all Belgian services into the supreme state of preparedness to detect those elements of exploitation, to human trafficking (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u12	Prime Minister, the consequences for the Ukrainian people of Russia's barbaric aggression are immeasurable. As always in times of war, it is the workers who pay the consequences, as today in Ukraine and in the world. Here in Belgium, we also see that workers as a whole will have to pay, especially for energy bills that will explode. This item is on the agenda of the European Summit on Thursday and Friday. A liter of 2.30 euros diesel is impeccable! An annual amount of 6 to 7,000 euros for gas and electricity bills is impeccable! People just can't take it anymore to pay that much. It's become priceless. And what do we hear from the government? She still hasn't made up her mind. Yet, as in all conflicts, we are witnessing the emergence of the profitors of war: these sectors, which will make billions of dollars in support of this war. I am, of course, talking about the oil sector. Total earned 14 billion profits last year alone. In the pocket ! We make money, while the peoples of the world are suffering! That is not right, Prime Minister! Radical decisions must be made. How much will the state record additional VAT with gasoline and diesel? We have done the calculation for you, Prime Minister: 1.1 billion euros more in the pockets of the state. And what does the government do? Nothing! We've been waiting four months. We've been pushing for four months to do something and nothing happens, nothing, nothing. Prime Minister, you have a European summit on Thursday and Friday. We have seen the drafts of this European summit. Can you confirm that energy-related decisions are delayed by two weeks and that tomorrow no drastic decisions will be taken? We read the drafts. For now (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, in just a few days, the horror of Russia's criminal war in Ukraine has caused hundreds of thousands of families to flee. These Ukrainians rushed away without water, food, warm clothes, shelter and, above all, no prospect. Once the border is crossed, relief immediately gives way to stress, anxiety and fear. Indeed, torn and uprooted families face a particularly uncertain future. No one can remain insensitive to such human suffering for these innocent citizens. Thus, the horror of the war quickly gave rise to an unprecedented momentum of solidarity among the population, in the countries neighbouring Ukraine, but also in our country. People open their doors to welcome refugees. Others began collecting large quantities of relief equipment. This situation places us on the responsibility of organizing a dignified reception for these people in distress. Mr Secretary of State, what are the facilities and infrastructures put in place to organise this reception? Other questions also arise regarding the treatment of refugees. It is reported that there is a border separation between Ukrainian refugees and nationals of other countries who live, work or study in Ukraine, while all these refugees are fleeing Putin's same deadly bombs. It is reported that this sorting would also take place in Belgium. Can you confirm or invalidate this information? This discrimination is unacceptable because bombs do not sort out. Mr Secretary of State, what are you putting in place to ensure the same reception and protection for all people fleeing the war, regardless of their origin or skin colour?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u14	"We've been feeding the crocodile for years hoping he'd be the last to devour us." It's not my words, it's Winston Churchill's, when he blamed the Western Allies for not stopping Hitler after his first raid in Sudetenland and the annexation of Austria. We're 84 years later and there's another fascist dictator at our door. The swastika has been replaced by the Z. For 30 years we have been feeding the dictator with oil and gas, even though we knew it. The war in Chechnya with 100,000 deaths, Ossetia, Georgia: we stood by and looked at it. The red line for the West drawn in Syria, was violated by Putin. Aleppo and Idlib were bombed to the Stone Age. We stood there and watched it, with cyber attacks in the democratic countries. We've been abandoning the Ukrainians for 30 years. We forced them to donate their nuclear weapons in 1981. They had 1,800 warheads - otherwise they couldn't become independent; otherwise they wouldn't be sovereign. Since then, we've abandoned them for 30 years. We have sent call horns to Maidan Square to tell them to come to Europe. In the Donbas, 14,000 were killed. Crimea was annexed. We even had a civilian plane, the MH17, shot out of the sky, killing 4 Belgians and 193 Dutch. Today we hesitate to set up a no-fly zone, so that the maternity wards would no longer be bombed. If we don't want that, let's deliver planes or tanks and not mitraillettes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u15	I would like to recall that at the Conference of Presidents we referred to the fact that we no longer use paper material for topical issues, so as to make them more alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u16	Madam President, this is a quote, which is why I have it on paper. Prime Minister, Europe is on fire, even literally, with bombs and grenades, wounded and dead. With us, there's a cyber war. A few months ago, the DOD was hacked. The importance of cyber security is crucial. Our hospitals can be shut down and our light can be turned off at the push of a button. Important state secrets can be thrown too gibberish. I have also asked you questions about what your cabinet is doing to ensure cyber security. Let me quote the answer, which is why I have this magazine in front of me. "Each government institution is itself responsible for the safety of its system." That is what you replied to me at the time. "The CCB conducted an internet vulnerabilities scan at well-known public IP addresses of the federal government, but that alone is not sufficient to rule out the vulnerabilities." That's what you added. "It is therefore crucial that every government institution itself continues to test its internet system for vulnerabilities." Mr Prime Minister, on the website www.belgium.be, two packages are mentioned for your jurisdiction, namely firstly the FPS Kanselarij and secondly cybersecurity and CCB. You are responsible for cyber security and for the CCB. Then why do you say that every government institution has to do something? If you cannot or do not wish to do so, make a trade minister responsible for cybersecurity. We need leadership. There must be someone in the position of trade minister who will ensure that every government institution and every infrastructure is checked and thoroughly screened for cyber security. This file is too important. A cyber war in Europe can erupt very quickly here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u17	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, it is indeed a very contrasting day. On the one hand, you are soon leaving for the summit in Versailles, which will bring together all European Heads of State and Government, in order to advance the European construction, which is, let us recall, a symbol of reconciliation and peace. On the other hand, there is hope for the negotiations in Turkey this morning, at the invitation of President Erdogan, who will bring together the Ukrainian and Russian authorities. On the other hand, the disarray is great when we see the damage caused by indiscriminate bombardments that have struck, in particular, maternity in Ukraine. Finally, and unfortunately also, I am thinking of all these people, women and children, who are fleeing Ukraine in mass to Poland. This leads me, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, to ask you several questions. First of all, do you have any hope for the outcome of the negotiations in Turkey this morning? Given Russia's closure of many media channels - which is not just Putin's - and the fact that many Russians are opposed to this autocratic regime, how can we send them a message? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, in view of the reception policy that we are going to pursue in favour of Ukrainian refugees, how will we pay attention (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u18	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, an unprecedented humanitarian crisis is unfolding before our eyes. Meanwhile, 2.2 million people from Ukraine are fleeing. Also to our country an estimated 200,000 people. The biggest challenge will be their shelter. As far as we are concerned, the initiative is spot-free in practice: what can I do for another? Solidarity among citizens, solidarity with local authorities, is absolutely heart-warming. We see in different cities, including in Bruges, for example, that a monastery is opened for 100 refugees. But more will be needed. Collective reception places will be needed, for example in the form of emergency villages. The Regions will take the lead in this regard. I know the Flemish government is already investigating everything. We are therefore counting on the Flemish resilience. Good cooperation with the Länder will be crucial. If I am well informed, Mr Secretary of State, Prime Minister, you have had a meeting with the Prime Ministers this morning. Our group also calls on the federal government to support, transcend the institutional lasagna where necessary and work on it together. There's no time for political games. There's a need for action. There's a need for action. There are a few practical questions. There aren't enough cots. There aren't 200,000, and probably not even 20,000 available. Maybe 2,000. How will we solve that? The municipalities are now each conducting their own research into whether their host families meet certain criteria. I only have one question for you. What was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u19	Prime Minister, in 2022, in the heart of Europe, a children's hospital is the target of bombing. After Grozny, after Aleppo, Marioupol, hundreds of innocent deaths in a maternity ward. Mr. Chargé d'affaires, I am particularly pleased and touched that you are here today, with us. I really want to tell you straight in the eyes. We are and will always stand by you, alongside Ukraine. I also say this to the fachos, the Salvini and other useful idiots of the Kremlin: your inaction, your silence are synonymous with complicity. Prime Minister, today in Versailles, we invite you to a historic turning point. Europe must turn its backs on the 20th century and, I dare say, on this old political policy of the 20th century, a little, it must be said, to the Schröder, corrupted by the profits of Russian gas and oil. Europe must invest decisively in the 21st century of climate, energy independence and 100% renewable energy. They're not just words. The world after can't be summed up as a beast slogan. Of course, we do not want war with Russia. On the other hand, we can decide here and now to cut off the funds, to stop financing Putin's unjust and illegal war with Ukraine. Prime Minister, are you going to restrict Russian imports of hydrocarbons, gas and also, without taboos, uranium? Are you going to invest? Let's hear this IPCC alarm bell in this climate transition! Finally, how will you protect the weakest among us who have nothing today and who fail to tie the two ends?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u20	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, measures have been taken all over Russia, but today it must be noted that there is still no ceasefire, there is no real humanitarian corridor, there is no de-escalation and Putin's madness is only getting worse. Moreover, the number of deaths and destruction is increasing. As a result, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians fled their country. Today, it is not acceptable to see all these people sleeping on the street no more than it is acceptable to see these lines of women and children looking for refuge, looking for food. In the face of this crisis, I would like to point out that it is essential that, whatever the origin of the people, whether Ukrainian or not, Moroccan students, Guinean or Senegalese students, all those who have chosen to build their lives in Ukraine and who have a regular right of residence, each of them should be entitled to the status of temporary protection. It is unacceptable that, depending on the origin of the persons, some are obliged to go through the asylum procedure, while they are granted Ukrainian resident status. Mr Prime Minister, beyond the attention you have to pay to a common European vision, at the diplomatic, political, humanitarian and military level, and knowing that just for gas, Russia accounts for more than 40% of European energy imports, what is the precise and ambitious message Belgium will be defending at the Versailles Summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Putin bombed a children's hospital and a materiality. The horror doesn't stop. That terrible war has already forced millions of people to leave their homes. From one day to the next, millions of people were refugees, looking for a safe haven. Europe will be that safe haven and Belgium will be part of it. It is estimated that 200,000 to 250,000 Ukrainian refugees will come to our country. That is a huge challenge, but it is a challenge that we want to tackle. There is a great deal of solidarity among our people, and this solidarity is also appealing to us, to politics, to governments, to address the challenge in a good way. The first refugees have already arrived in our country. People are rightly outraged and angry when they find that these refugees have to join the registration centre Jules Bordet for hours before they register. Mr Secretary of State, you have already announced that you want to improve registration. How do you intend to do that? It is now a matter of all hands on deck. Coordination is crucial. There is a great deal going towards the different governments in our country, including the local authorities. There are a lot of questions. We need clear communication. Communication has also been confusing over the last few days about reception and housing. Will we receive refugees from individuals and families, or should shelter be organised by cities and municipalities? Are we switching to crisis shelter? Is there enough room for crisis relief or collective care? You have also communicated about provincial shelter villages, but what should we imagine? The last thing we want to create is shelter camps where people end up in hopeless situations. Mr Secretary of State, how can we make the HashtagPlekFree campaign a success and show the best of ourselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u22	Madam President, I also had some notes, but I left them on my couch, otherwise my group leader gives me angry looks. Prime Minister, Secretary of State, nous avons peur, that was a statement by Paul-Henri Spaak in 1948. It was about the Soviet Union. After World War II, the Soviet Union was on the rise. Communism was on the rise at the time. In 1948, the Foreign Minister gave a historic speech to the United Nations in Washington. After the fear of Nazism, people were afraid of communism. Right now there are a lot of people scared, people in Ukraine and people on the ground. They're afraid of the war, but they're also afraid they won't be able to pay their bills. I'm not afraid myself. Fear is never a good counselor. However, I do think it is necessary to become resilient, resilient and caring. For those who are no longer able to pay their invoices, we must do something now. However, we must also become resilient and energy independent. We must also do something for the people who flee, but we must also address the asylum model, fundamental and structural. Those two things need to go hand in hand. It is important that this government really comes up with a resilience agenda. We need to be caring but also resilient in terms of energy independence. Food security will be an important issue in the coming hours in Versailles. I wish you every success. We also need to be resilient in the areas of refugees and asylum policy. In the field of defence, we have to make that investment of 2%. Mr Pillen, you gave a very good speech, quite rightly. Let us make that 2% investment in defence now. Our group is tabling a resolution today to achieve that 2% by 2030. Prime Minister, I would like to have your answers in terms of resilience. Finally, yesterday the European Parliament approved a motion to condemn Poland, at these times. I understand that this is about something completely different, but is that the signal that we have to send to countries like Poland, which are doing their best?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u23	Prime Minister, since the aggressive military invasion of Russia, the Ukrainian people have been living in a nightmare. Countless people, some two million mainly women, children and the elderly are fleeing. Many others remain on the ground and wage a bitter and courageous struggle for their security and freedom. But it's an unequal battle. A cease-fire is being ignored. Civil infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and residential areas is being bombed. In the meantime, a way out of this conflict is being sought. Unfortunately, today's summit between the foreign ministers of Ukraine and Russia has not brought any breakthrough. Yet diplomacy is the path we must continue to follow. On the other hand, we cannot wait. We must act ourselves to alleviate the needs of the Ukrainian people already. That is why effective humanitarian aid and reception in our own region for refugees is a priority. So we are right behind Ukraine. But we also notice that this continuing conflict is taking a heavy toll on Europe. Exploding energy prices, economic recession and perhaps soon a food crisis. My questions to you are simple. What will this government do to alleviate the accumulation of humanitarian needs of the Ukrainian people at the moment? How will this government compensate for the heavy economic cost and impact of this war on our people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, millions of Ukrainians are currently fleeing the terrible violence of war in their country. Contrary to recent years when we saw in particular how men left women and children and abandoned them and many fake refugees in migratory flows to Western Europe, we now see real refugees. Women and children are fleeing from Ukraine on a massive scale, while the men who already resided in Western Europe return to Ukraine to protect their homeland. So we are now seeing a reverse movement in the asylum flow compared to the past few years. The refugees from Ukraine, children and the elderly, we have to take care of them in Flanders and Belgium, because here is the region of Ukraine. The Flemish interest has always argued for shelter in its own region. Well, here is the region where we have to catch them. I am therefore very happy to see how many Flemings have opened their hearts and homes to Ukrainian refugees. Solidarity is truly heartwarming. What is not heart-warming and what I have been pretty upset about over the last few days is that in this country there are currently 30,000 asylum seekers' shelters filled with Africans, people from the Middle East, people who are not really refugees. Fake asylum seekers, lucky seekers and illegal migrants fill places that should be for Ukrainian refugees. What also makes me very angry is that one in three people who are coming here from Ukraine is actually not a Ukrainian, but an illegal migrant, who takes advantage of the suffering and situation of Ukrainians to come illegally to Western Europe. What will you do to ensure that these fraudsters, these abusers, do not pack up places intended for genuine Ukrainian refugees? (Applause from the left) Booing on the other banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people's representatives, the last question makes me quiet. I'm having a lot of trouble hiding my shame from what was just said here. I hope you'll condemn that with me. (great applause) Ladies and gentlemen, the European continent has always been an open continent, a continent open to the world. Openness to the world has been the European project, a project of humanism, a project of cooperation, a project of helping people in need. There are people in need in Europe, but there are also people in need in other places of the world. I hope that we do not make an artificial distinction in this respect, although something has fundamentally changed on the European continent. Our continent has changed. This is the end of an era of peace on the European continent. It is the end of an era in which, on the European continent, a country does not just invade another country without arguments, unprovoked, as has often been said in English. Many of the assurances we had in Europe have become uncertainties today. We're gonna have to revisit a lot of cases. We will have to re-analyse the method by which we organize our security and defence. We will have to reanalyse our energy policy. We will have to re-analyse our economic sovereignty. And we are going to have to look at how to deal with an asylum and migration crisis that will be much more difficult to manage than all the crises we have experienced so far. That is precisely the agenda of the Versailles Summit, which is taking place at the right time, today and tomorrow. We, as European Heads of Government, have quite a few things to discuss. I note that, in recent years, Europe has succeeded in doing so at difficult times, when it is being asked to take the lead, and that the people of Europe are looking at Europe at difficult times. After the way in which the covid crisis has been dealt with, it is seen today that the people of Europe are asking Europe to take the lead at this difficult time. I note that in three days' time there are three countries that say they want to join Europe. Then I guess we have something to offer. What does Europe have to offer today? Freedom, security, democracy, these are the things we are putting on the table today. Over the last few days, I've been on the phone with a government leader from a country outside Europe. He told me: "We are desperately trying to remain part of the free world. But we fear that we are failing. We are looking in your direction." That's what happens today. Countries feel intimidated and want to remain a free society. These countries are looking at Europe today. What is Europe supposed to do about this? I just mentioned a number of topics. First of all, in the field of defence there is a need for more, but more integrated and better. As far as membership is concerned, there is a process today, but there must also be a political process to ensure that we are able to get countries that are looking in our direction faster. We need to make that more visible. I know that the ministers responsible are going to talk about it later, but in the field of energy I believe in the free market. But if that free market has become hysterical and completely irrational with prices that are totally unrelated to reality, it is highly questionable whether national governments should continue to put money on the table that ends up with the one they are fighting. If a stock exchange is irrational, then the stock exchange is shut down. If the energy markets are irrational, then it seems to me absolutely logical to intervene. I assumed that I would have ten minutes, so I will try to answer some questions quickly. Mr Freilich, you are a specialist in cybersecurity in your party. You know very well that this is a shared responsibility. Traditional safety is also a shared responsibility. As a person, you are also responsible for the security of your home. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium can be expected to make monitoring and recommendations and to act when it sees that there is a concrete threat. It is therefore the responsibility of those who have infrastructure to ensure their own security, but the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium assists them in this. We have not seen any significant attacks in recent weeks, but we are, of course, in an increased state of preparedness. With regard to the flow of refugees, we have indeed had a meeting with the Ministers-Presidents this morning in order to correctly assess what we are going to face and determine who is going to do what. We will face a situation that we have not yet experienced in our country in recent decades. It is clear that at the federal level, we are responsible for the reception, registration, management and financing of CPAS, but, of course, the housing itself and all that is associated with it (education, care, etc.). It is the responsibility of the federated entities. We agreed on a working procedure and decided that the National Crisis Centre will manage everything. Finally, I would like to talk about asylum and migration. After all, we are now faced with an improbable task. We see a great deal of solidarity and hospitality in our country and we can only be proud of it. However, it will be an effort of long duration, it will not be a walk in the park. As a society, we will face challenges at some point. The integration of tens of thousands of refugees who speak another language and whose children have to go to school will be a challenge for all of us. It is about resources, but above all about people and attitude. We need that attitude. As Europeans, we have a huge responsibility and we Belgians can handle it. Our humanity has brought us very far in the covid crisis. Now, at the moment, we must appeal to our humanity for those who run away from violence, who have and loved them, who have tried to come here, and who are eagerly drawn to the free world. Let us show them in the coming weeks and months what this free world is, a world in which we understand people and in which we know that we are incredibly able to handle a great deal if we work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, they have already reached 2.3 million. More than 100,000 people are added every day. This is the biggest challenge facing the European Union in terms of asylum and migration. Against this greatest challenge, we will also have to be the greatest. We have already done so at European level, with the directive on automatic protection, which has been allocated for the first time in the history of the European Union. We will ensure that every person arriving in Belgium from Ukraine, whether Ukrainian or recognized as a refugee in Ukraine, receives this protection and is welcomed to our home. A day later, on 4 March, we opened the registration centre in Brussels to register everyone who is due here. Of course, capacity will have to be increased, but in the meantime we have already registered more than 3,000 people. I wish to thank the people of the Foreign Office, of Fedasil and of the Red Cross, that day in, day out, from Monday to Sunday, from early morning to late evening, very hard work, for the enormous work they are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u27	Whoever I want to thank, of course, are the local authorities and all the citizens who have already proved what I know a long time ago: we are a community of solidarity. We are people of solidarity. We open our hearts to people who flee. We open our hearts to genuine refugees: real refugees from Afghanistan, real refugees from Syria, real refugees from Ukraine, and all the real refugees that come to us. With the hashtag-free action we have achieved a great deal of solidarity, but we will need much more. We'll need everything and everyone. We know the housing issues at the regional level. Housing creation is a huge challenge. They won't be able to take it on their own. We will all have to act together, both federal and regional. That is why we met again this morning. We will have to work together and create large-capacity collective housing to ensure that every person can be welcomed in the best possible conditions. So we have already agreed with the regions that by the end of March 2022 several tens of thousands of places will be created by the regions. That is the voluntarism we need today to get through the current crisis. There is also the registration in Brussels. I stated that on 3 March 2022 the European Union took the decision on automatic protection. A day later, we took the decision on registration in Brussels, which will have to increase capacity. By Monday, we must sit on the Heysel and welcome refugees in the right conditions. A number of speakers have already mentioned it. Brussels alone will, of course, not be enough. We will have to decentralise. We will need registration in different cities, which will enable us to accommodate Ukrainians everywhere in this country in the right conditions. Finally, there are challenges in all possible areas. First of all, there's the housing. But there are still so many other things to do, especially for these little children who come here, who want to go to school and play in a football club, for those women who want to work, contribute and have psycho-social help that they so much need and we have to give them. We'll have to do so much together. And what I don't want to do is look at this institutional lasagna that has to do what. Everyone has to put their own. We don't have time to ask ourselves what the other has to do. We must ask ourselves what we can do. What we are doing today is a fourth category climb with tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of people who may come to Belgium. It's gonna be a climb out of category. Stairs aren't gonna work alone. We're all gonna have to kick together. We must show solidarity. We have to work hard. We should not look at each other, but at all Ukrainians, today in the room, today in the streets in Brussels, in our villages, throughout the country. These are people who expect our solidarity, not only in tweets, not only on Facebook, not only today, not only tomorrow but also in the coming months and years. It is time for us to show our solidarity with the Ukrainians who need this most today. We won't unload them, not today, not tomorrow, never.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u28	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. However, the Prime Minister did not respond to a specific aspect of Russian gas and oil. I would therefore like to stress that if today's and tomorrow's summit does not take a very strong decision on the medium- to long-term, if not short-term, cut of Russian gas and oil, this summit will have been of no use. Indeed, it is the only way to influence Mr Putin today. The latter royally ignores our indignations, even the most unanimous; this man understands only the language of strength and money. Since we cannot oppose him first, we must deprive him of money. As this war continues and increasingly unbearable images of civilians under bombs circulate, the gap with our great indignation and applause will become increasingly unbearable. Therefore, we must go to Versailles, we must strike hard and fair, and we must not return without just sanctions on oil and gas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u29	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for these very proactive answers. We emphasize the fact that the government appears to be in action. It's important. I would also like to thank you. You said, "I'm not gonna embarrass myself with institutional lasagna." The temptation would have been great with a temporary protection status to say, "In essence, it is the federated entities that are responsible, and I wash my hands." I really want to stress that on your part because you want to keep the conduct of this crisis and that is important. It is now expected that the decentralization of registration centres will take place. You said it, it's important, you have to make it operational soon enough. There is also a need for additional financial support for CPAS and coordination because there are many good wills, but they must be looked at in one place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u30	Madam President, Secretary of State, it is a good thing that we have shown ourselves to be united across party boundaries today, not only in our horror but also in our decisiveness. It is sometimes said that Mr Putin is a master strategist. That myth can definitely be put in the garbage can, because Mr Putin is getting a very strong NATO reaction and an unprecedented unity in the European Union. That's very important to remember. Together we stand strong, and that awareness must now be translated into action. This means first of all that we will be independent in energy supply, diplomatic and military matters. We have to keep Theodore Roosevelt's adage:speak softly but carry a big stick. We must continue to speak softly, we must maintain the diplomatic tone, but we must also speak harshly to Russia. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u31	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for explaining the arrangements made. These agreements will now have to be implemented in the very short term. We will look very closely at that. Unfortunately, I have heard little or nothing about exploitation and trafficking in human beings. However, it is urgent that we get the problem on radar. I asked a question yesterday to Minister Verlinden, who told me that no cases had yet been identified, but there are many signs: there are vans with strange plates and minors crossing the border, there are recruiters in several European capitals, who are immediately recruiting young women. There are numerous stories, including recruitments in orphanages in Ukraine. The fact that there are no findings in Belgium leads me to suspect that the problem is simply not yet on the radar. It is high time that it was tackled with the utmost urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a liberal minister say that the market is not functioning because the market is waiting for money. War profiters, oil and gas multinationals. Business, business as usual . Whether it's war or not, life goes on. And we have a prime minister who says, "Ah, the market doesn't work." That is why action must be taken. And I didn't hear any of that from this Prime Minister. Secondly, on the peace movement, I would like to make a comment. I've heard the political game in which you say the PVDA is pro Putin. You need to be careful with that. After all, we have clearly and unequivocally condemned Putin, and you have heard all this. However, as in any war, the peace movement is referred to as a pro enemy, for Saddam Hussein, for Gaddafi or for Putin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u33	Be careful, comrades! Where is the pacifist tradition of the Greens? The war (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u34	Madam Chair, I would have liked to reply to the Secretary of State's answer to my question, but I did not understand it very well. Mr Secretary of State, you spoke about Ukrainians or recognized refugees in Ukraine, but my question was about students and workers who are nationals of other countries but are residents of Ukraine, who are discriminated against at the borders when they try to escape from the war and flee Putin's bombs. It seems that this discrimination is repeated here in Belgium and, when I hear your answer, it is almost right for that information. Therefore, are nationals of other countries who come from Ukraine as refugees treated differently from Ukrainians? That was my question, and I did not have an answer on that point. However, what we have on the ground seems to corroborate this, and it is a pity that you have not responded clearly to this issue or taken steps to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u35	Stop hypocrisy, Putin has been able to attack Ukraine because Europe and NATO have refused to join. The call for more money is fantastic. NATO's budget is more than one billion euros a year. For the 27 European countries, it is 211 billion a year. Putin's budget is 56 billion. So it's about policy, it's about fear, and it's about abandoning people. I'm proud to have 4 million people taken care of by us, even with my own family. I dare say that here today. However, there are still 40 million people left behind. They become cannon meat for Putin. We wash our hands in innocence and are still too cowardly to close the airspace for aircraft that are going to bomb maternity clinics. Dear friends, remember this a little better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u36	Prime Minister, I agree with you that cybersecurity is a collective responsibility. That's right. Cyber safety is, however, very sophisticated today. Of course, defense has the right people for that, that of the ADIV. With all due respect to the Federal Retirement Service or the FPS Civil Service cases, I don't think these institutions today have cyberexperts and rapists. So we do need central leadership from the CCB and from you as Prime Minister, responsible for cyber security. It is not enough just to shove it off on others. However, I give you the benefit of the doubt. Hopefully, you will take cyber security seriously enough and have each public service screened separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u37	Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you for the answers received. Unfortunately, I have not had any additional information on the risks of trafficking in human beings, but I will come back to it in committee. One word in your answers: this need for union at all levels, like this afternoon in the European Union to take strong measures and sanctions. I repeat that they will have to be strong and hard on Russia because it is the only language Putin's Russia understands. The union will have to be large and strong between us too, in relation to the reception policy that we want to put in place at all levels. I would also like to say that we must take care of the responsibilities which the municipalities will have to take (or not) in this reception policy. Union again in relation to what will come. As you said, these challenges are immense and will continue in time. Let us hope that we will keep this momentum of solidarity as great as it is today!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, it is good that there are clear agreements with the Prime Ministers and that the Federal Crisis Centre will take on a coordinating role, but we are now facing the biggest crisis, as you yourself said. If it hadn't been for PlakVrij, the people who have already arrived wouldn't have had a place. Now we need to work on more buffer sites, now we need to work together on integration, on education, on housing, on translation and on everything related to solidarity. However, I would also ask you to ensure that the weakest people who will come to our country are properly accompanied. Together, we can handle it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, I am sincerely proud that a very large majority in this Parliament applauds you. This proves that, when one hears the dishonest racist words of Vlaams Belang, there is a large democratic majority in this Parliament to oppose them. There are no more environmentalists, socialists, liberals or Christian Democrats! We are Democrats; we are Europeans and we are proud to choose this side of humanity. We are proud to choose the side of the Ukrainian resistance. We are proud to choose the camp of these Russian demonstrators who dare to brave the bans on demonstrations in Moscow. Dear colleagues of the PTB, when you choose the camp of neutrality, you choose the camp of the oppressor. And I'm proud to continue fighting for this freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, our solidarity with Ukraine must be total. Our solidarity with those who leave the country must be total. I repeat, we must help everyone who leaves. Ukrainians or not, they flee the same war; they flee the same bombs. The measures we are taking must be proportional to the violence that Putin has deployed. But we must always pay attention to the consequences of these measures for ourselves, otherwise it could come back to drinking poison to quench thirst. Then let's be lucid! We must build our economic independence. We need to build our energy independence. We must structurally stem the increase in prices. To do this is to change the paradigm and to turn your back on the world as it has been built for decades. The Ukrainian crisis, after the covid crisis, obliges us to accelerate the march towards the world of tomorrow and it begins in Versailles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for your efforts over the last few days and also for your answers here. You visited the Heysel. You will decentralise the registration centers. You'll be looking for additional shelters that are really needed. However, the solidarity that exists today also forces us to take a critical look at our existing reception network and our asylum policy. While there is a lot of solidarity and empathy for Ukrainian refugees, over the last few days I have also received many messages from people who explicitly wanted to reconfirm their empathy for refugees from Syria, Afghanistan, Eritrea. We must not forget them. The last thing we can do is play refugees against each other, because that kind of nationalism, based on exclusivity based on skin colour, leads to violence and to war. We will never accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, high heart, cool head, that's important at this time. At a time when emotions are rising high, which we have just witnessed, it is important that we try to keep our heads down in all the debates, whether they are dealing with Ukraine's EU membership, energy independence and energy prices, or the core exit. Keep your head down. Try to get the ratio to take the upper hand, and stop the core exit. Go for the longer opening of nuclear power stations. Also keep your head cool when it comes to the refugee story. Is there any abuse of the system? For years. You know that. Everyone knows that. The system is currently not sufficiently efficient. There's endemic fraud. We shall see that again in the coming weeks. The intention is that there will be another model. That's why I repeat my call. Make our society resilient again. Make our society caring, in terms of energy prices, in terms of refugees. Show our hearts, every day, but (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u43	Madam President, I have not received any answers from the Prime Minister to my questions. I have heard one positive point, namely that more investment is needed in our defence and in our security. Finally, I'd say. The statement that the European Union has taken the lead in the current debate is a laughing matter. The current government has indeed released a number of resources. We would prefer to see these resources no longer disappear in bottomless wells in the Third World, but are now being deployed in the humanitarian emergency on our own continent. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reception of refugees, we continue to consistently call for reception in our own region. This here is our own region. This is where we have to take responsibility. The main priority for us is the cessation of pointless bloodshed, the neutralization of the conflict and the maximum use of diplomatic dialogue. After all, every dead man is too many.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u44	Madam President, what Prime Minister De Croo said here was completely absurd. It is a huge collective madness that so many Members of Parliament, including those of the N-VA, applauded the absurdities of De Croo. After all, what did he say? He said that we should not distinguish between illegal migrants coming here through Ukraine and refugees coming here. After all, what is happening today? Moroccans, Algerians, Africans and people from the Middle East travel by plane to Ukraine or to the region of Ukraine, where they cross the border via human smugglers and take places in our shelters, which are intended for genuine Ukrainian refugees. Dear people, we must deal with this abuse. It is our duty to help Ukrainian refugees, not smugglers and asylum fraudsters. After all, anyone who is currently a fake refugee and occupies a place in our shelters takes a place from a Ukrainian refugee. One in three...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u45	Madam President, Minister, fueling costs more than EUR 2 per litre. Less than 1 euro is the price for diesel and petrol itself. More than one euro disappears into the state treasury today. In October, you promised here in response to a question from the Flemish Interest to introduce the reverse cliquet. That proposal has so far not come into the house at all. The same applies to the gas bill. Gas prices are reaching record levels today. Following a bill of the Flemish Interest, in January in the VTM-studios, you promised all Flemings that you would lower your VAT on gas. Once again, nothing has come of this proposal. What are you waiting for? Minister Van der Straeten and the Prime Minister want to put everything together. They want to link different dossiers: the nuclear power stations, the social tariff, the energy transition, together with the energy bill and the price at the pump. In this way, of course, it will still take many precious days and weeks. That is, of course, very cynical for the people who receive their invoices and who have to pay at the pump. The perverse thing today is that the longer this government waits, the greater the revenue. There is one winner today, the state treasury. If the prices of diesel, petrol, gas and fuel oil increase, of course, the revenue for the state treasury will also increase. Minister, that is untenable. For many people the invoices have become completely priceless today. It's time to intervene now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u46	Minister, Minister, invoices become clearly unpayable for many households, for self-employed people, but also for businesses. Pumps shut down even because they sell at a loss, and the potential price explosion of a range of other products, including food products, is announced. The forecasts give the turn: we are told that it is quite possible that the price of fuel will reach three euros per litre in the next two months. There is an increase in energy bills for households on average of EUR 5 000 per year – which is obviously huge. Can the conflict in Ukraine partly explain this price boom? Yeah, that's right. At the same time, however, one can only be questioned by the fact that in Belgium the price increase is twice as high as the European Union average. A few months ago, you made a series of decisions for households, but you will now agree that they are largely insufficient. They had targeted the most disadvantaged: the social rate excluded, for example, all working people, but also the middle classes. The various parties of your Vivaldi government have been launching every day, for several weeks now, promises, announcements: reduction of the VAT on gas, inverted click, price freeze, maximum 1.7 euro per litre at the pump, reduction of 30 euros at each fill, and I pass it. In short, a lot of communications but nothing, no decision. Some even say in the corridors that the decisions were already on the table in November but had been blocked by other parties in your government. Madam and Mr Ministers, perhaps some answers will come from the European Union, but that is not enough. The urgency is first of all for your government to act. What measures do you put on the table? What is the objective of the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u47	Madam President, Mr and Madam Minister, the prizes are hallucinating. The diesel price is currently well above 2 euros, the gas prices are up to twenty times higher today than a year ago. People can barely afford their energy bill. The energy crisis does not leave any family in this country untouched today. However, this crisis is not new. The war in Ukraine has undoubtedly aggravated the situation, but for months I have been calling for attention here for families with a poorly isolated home, for low-income families, for families who are suddenly faced with very high advance bills for energy today and who are having a difficult time. Vooruit's position has been quite ready in recent years. The VAT on gas and electricity should be increased to 6%, not for a moment, but forever. Electricity, energy, is a basic product. Well, that's for sure. The situation is also very serious today. I heard the Prime Minister just say that the free energy market is no longer functioning today. That is what he has to establish as a liberal, and he is calling for a freeze on gas prices at European level. We can support that argument, because it is not normal for businesses and families to give up at the moment, while the International Energy Agency has calculated that the energy sector will be over-profits of EUR 200 billion. I want to focus on what needs to happen in our country. I hear almost all the parties from the majority today say that something must be done about VAT. Well, let us get to work on that, not delay it any longer. My only question to you is therefore whether you can guarantee people that an agreement will be reached in the near future. Why wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u48	Madam Minister, Minister, more than 2 euros for 1 litre of diesel. The prices at the pump are virtually priceless at the moment. People who have to work by car, volunteers who drive around for an association or parents who drop off their children by car at the nursery or school, are all hard hit. The prices at the pump are a direct attack on the wallet of ordinary people. We simply cannot stand on the sidelines. Something absolutely has to be done. That is why CD&V has already put an alternative on the table more than four and a half months ago: the reverse cliquet system, which reduces excise duties and at the same time reduces prices at the pump. An alternative is a general reduction in excise duty to the European minimum, but in itself it does not matter which method is used. It is especially important that people feel the difference in their wallet, because the water is on their lips. In this respect, it is nice to note that more and more parties in the hemisphere are in favour of these proposals. Some of the parties are rather slow-moving diesels on this subject, but now we need to make decisions. Madam Minister, Minister, the proposals are on the table. They can be introduced quickly. The water is on the people's lips. For some people it is pumping or drowning, hence my specific question: what will the government do about the prices at the pump?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u49	Minister, Minister, every day we see energy prices continue to rise, both for gas and for electricity, fuel oil and fuel. That puts great pressure on our social and economic fabric. People can't keep paying for that. In the context of high energy prices, the government has taken a very long time to respond to the first wave of prices. Is it that indecision that will rule this country again? Is that what we're supposed to expect? Work must be speeded up to ensure that solutions are put in place, because people can no longer afford to do so. My group has put forward several proposals to assist the people, to ensure that something changes in the short term. For example, this could be a direct reduction of EUR 500 or a substantial reduction in excise duties on fuel, so that we can go further. But what do I hear from the government? I hear ideas, I hear statements, the blabla is in the air. Where's the result? What will you do effectively? This is a very urgent matter. How do we proceed with this? What are you gonna do? More importantly, when can we finally expect this government to take the action that we want on the streets, that we want on the pump and that we want at home when the energy bill falls into the bus?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u50	Minister of Energy, Minister of Finance, people can't do it anymore! People can no longer choose between taking care of themselves or paying their energy bills. People can no longer have to choose between filling the fridge or paying their bills for gas, electricity or heating oil. I'm not asking you what you think, I'm asking you to act! Of course, things have already been done: a reduction on the bill, an increase in the social rate, a temporary reduction in VAT on electricity. But that is not enough! We must be able to take not a measure but a package of measures. I ask you to act quickly in the government with a reduction in taxes on energy – whether VAT or excise – on electricity, on gas, on heating oil. I also ask you for a rate for the middle classes. The extension of the social tariff allows a million people to have some oxygen, but that is not enough. We must also think of the middle classes, especially those who are now at risk of falling into poverty. It's time to act! The time for analysis has passed! We want concrete!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u51	Madam President, Minister, the prices are indeed kicking ass. We can complain about this, but it is even better to work on sustainable solutions. The government has already approved two packages and is now working on an additional excise reform for electricity and gas, with less VAT and more excise duties, thus avoiding overprofits for the government. For electricity, that may be permanent, for gas, it is less obvious if we want to get away effectively from fossil energy sources. Our party has also proposed an emergency plan because we believe that we need to work structuralally in particular to reduce energy consumption and reduce consumption by opting for economy, insulation and alternative energy sources. The cooperation of the regions plays a very important role and they must take the lead in this. As far as the energy market is concerned, our communist friends wanted to give us a lesson in market manipulation. Putin has been slowly draining gas reserves in Germany since the middle of last year. As Liberals, we believe in a healthy market of supply and demand, but if that market cannot function through manipulation or exceptional circumstances, then we must have the courage to think. As the Prime Minister said, in these circumstances, we need to consider a temporary price cap and the market mechanism pay-as-clear for electricity prices. I understand that this is happening at European level. Madam Secretary, what do you think of a price ceiling? Is that desirable or realistic? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I support the concerns you have all expressed. The rising prices at the pump and the historically high prices of gas and electricity make it untenable for our people today. I've been knocking on that nail for months. In November these prices were alarming, today prices are unsustainable and if we wait a long time, they become priceless. Can we, as a government, pay all people's bills? Of course not! That's not possible. But that doesn't mean we can't do anything. We can't do nothing. The proposals are on the table. There is a proposal to reduce excise duties on diesel and petrol to the minimum permitted by Europe. The proposal to reform the energy bill is on the table. The reduction in VAT to 6% for gas and electricity is on the table. We can and must make a decision on this as soon as possible. The rising prices for energy, petrol and diesel are an attack on our families' budget. Remember that prices and increases for petrol and diesel are not included in the spillover index and are therefore not offset by automatic indexation. Clock's ticking. People can't delay their fuel cycles. They need their car to take the kids to school or to go to work. The KB is ready. All we have to do is decide. It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a great deal of support here in Parliament from the majority and the opposition to do something. I expect the government around the table to have the same support. I'll keep fighting to do something about the prizes. Every day, I'm gonna keep fighting until something's decided. This is necessary for our families and for all those who are in trouble to pay for all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, the first debate was on the war in Ukraine and on the refugees coming to all the countries of Europe and also to our country. I have heard great solidarity here in Parliament and within the government. The second debate is about the impact of the war on our energy bill, about the high price we pay because of our structural dependence on fossil energy and the demand for all of you to act quickly in the short term. I welcome all the proposals that have been made. I welcome all the questions to take immediate action. In this debate on energy bills, too, there is a great deal of solidarity, solidarity with those who cannot pay their bills, solidarity with companies who cannot pay their invoices, solidarity with industry that may have to stop production processes. Yes, Mr Laaouej, we must act with a package that is global and that relies on a great offensive aimed at prices in different aspects. All measurements are discussed. Luckily! Fortunately, proposals are put forward and, as the Deputy Prime Minister has said, ready to be taken. We have not waited for the raid in Ukraine to take action, nor will we wait a day too long to intervene immediately on the invoice. This is about short-term measures, when it comes to affordability. The proposals have been mentioned. It concerns a VAT reduction on electricity and gas and the social tariff. Minister Lalieux and I spoke to 17 poverty groups this morning about their experiences and questions. They ask us for a longer-term perspective and a structural embedding of the measures. However, they also ask for help now in a structural way to reduce the invoice structurally, to ensure that one can connect with the energy transition. Working on our dependence means using green energy, wind and sun, which means that we are no longer dependent on regimes abroad, which means that we are no longer dependent on Russia. We can make this green energy here in the North Sea. These matters can be decided in the short term and can have immediate effect. Only by using structuralally greening and accelerating the transition, will we also work structurally on lower invoices. That's our assignment. That is the task that Minister Van Peteghem and myself, with the entire government, are taking on us. We must come up with a global package on the affordability of invoices and on speeding up the energy transition so that we can be resilient, as a country and as an economy. For example, we provide affordable invoices in the short and long term. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u54	Dear Ministers, I honestly wonder which world you live in. Your government lacks any kind of urgency. Prices are reaching crazy levels today. A tank turn costs 30 to 40 euros more. Gas and fuel oil bills are rising by many thousands of euros. If the account follows, or the advances are recalculated, each family will leave its mark, not only on vulnerable people, but also on single people, on hard-working two-earners. They too will be in trouble. The proposals, Minister, are indeed on the table. There is a large majority in this House for that. But your purple-green government is no longer able to decide quickly. So stop looking away! Stop filling the state treasury with income on the hood of people who can't pay their bills. In times of crisis, buttons must be cut, not in a month, not in a week, not tomorrow, but now, immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u55	Minister, Madam Minister, I understand your intentions, but I sum up: the royal decree is ready, but it is blocked. And obviously, it's not from today. In fact, do you measure the shock caused by both your words and the daily lives of people who are going to fill up, the shock between what you say, what you are announcing for you to know when, and the reality of citizens, self-employed and businesses? In essence, the question is whether, when I hear here the Vivaldi parties, whose words I read every day in the gazette, if every party in your government is not trying to get the most out of it, rather than trying collegially to find ambitious and urgent measures for the sole benefit of the citizens. And that, sir and Madam Ministers, is... (micro coupé).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u56	Minister, Minister, I have listened to you and the decisions seem to be ready. I have also listened in particular to all the Members who have spoken here. Apart from the N-VA, everyone here has argued for a reduction in VAT. So there's support. I am going to say very little about this. Not words but deeds, make a decision on these files within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u57	Dear Ministers, thank you for the answer. The courage will sink into people's lives when they're at the pump. CD&V continues to argue for the solution that is on the table. She's figured out and done. As the Deputy Prime Minister rightly said, the decision must now be taken. We are confident that you will argue in favour of this. I turn to the whole government. What are you waiting for? Make that decision now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u58	Dear Ministers, thank you for the answer. Mrs van der Straeten, it is clear that you have made the bend. It's a nice turn, a beautiful bend, but you did make it. Minister Van Peteghem, you are very angry. I'm angry, too. Actually, you kind of repeated what I said. Therefore, be angry where necessary, namely tomorrow at the table in the nuclear cabinet. Be as angry there as you were here in Parliament. If that's what you want, I'll be angry with you in the nuclear cabinet to make sure that a decision is finally made so that you don't have to be angry with anyone who says you don't decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u60	Mr Calvo, I suggest that you support Mr Van Peteghem so that a decision is actually taken. Then you can make the bend.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u61	I want to reassure the Minister of Finance. You have been clearer on energy than the PTB on Putin's Russia! It is not easy to be a great helmsman and to have so much to row; I grant it to you. Minister, minister, some want to debate the crisis of the liberal economy – it is undoubtedly a pleonasm – and whether we are for or against cars. All this is important. But the urgency is to respond to the people who tell us that it is impossible to face a full of more than 100 euros, be it diesel or gasoline, to go to work. You can do this reduction of taxes on fuel, with royal orders; the ball is in your camp, but now you have to put the double bites. That's what we expect from you!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u62	Ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot conduct energy policy on the basis of lightness or emotions. We need to combine energy independence, climate neutrality and affordability, and this requires a strong build-up of renewable energy, a well-thought-out but phased phasing-out of conventional energy sources, with today more than yesterday we need to limit the intermediate step through gas plants. Finally, I would like to reiterate my plea to consider further measures for the budget in the long term. After all, the bill comes to the citizens, today's or tomorrow's. Invest in structural measures and integrate them into an affordable energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u63	Madam Minister, among the aberrant consequences of the crisis that we have been going through for several months is the increase in fuel prices. Of course, I agree with colleagues' requests for strong interventions and measures. It's March 10th. These elements are not new, as they have been looking forward to long enough. It is therefore time to take action. What's going on? Firefighters who make up 85 per cent of the world's independents in our country face difficulties in terms of fuel prices, which they are obliged to charge less than they cost to buy. As a result, they sell at a loss, which is prohibited by law. However, a programme contract, comprising the factor K and the seven-day threshold, should be subject to change. You received an inquiry from them more than eight days ago, to which you have not yet responded. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to know what you are going to do with Mr Dermagne so that independent firefighters can earn a decent living and thus avoid resorting to strong measures such as the closure of petrol pumps or the blocking of fuel oil and on-road diesel depots.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u64	Mrs Marghem, in fact, high energy prices and their volatility affect everyone, not just consumers or businesses. Firefighters are also hit by the challenge of our dependence on fossil fuels, up to 30% for oil. This undermines consumers and, more generally, our economy. I read in the press that an ultimatum had been sent to us, to my colleague Deputy Prime Minister Dermagne and myself. However, let me say this: the government does not work under the threat of an ultimatum. In addition, we did not wait for him to come together to seek solutions for independent firefighters. This is a complex and multi-faceted issue. Just a few minutes ago, we talked about oil bills at the pump that also explode. We therefore need a response that is so comprehensive in this matter and that addresses the various problems. We're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u65	Madam Minister, thank you for this early response, which is far from complete and slow to take action. The whole set of topics you are facing is obviously complex, but that is no reason to delay action. I think you've been warned long enough. From the moment you are actually inclined to help this sector, you should first meet with it and, second, by finding solutions, you will necessarily have an increase in the pump that will have to be corrected. This is our demand with the application of the inverted ratchet to allow motorists who need their car to work and to live, to have bearable prices that give their budget a decent look while, moreover, and as we said a lot earlier, they have to face energy bills that are increasingly catastrophic.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u66	Madam President, Madam Minister, two out of two aid workers last year experienced physical violence. One in ten aid workers had to deal with physical violence on a monthly basis. One out of four aid workers are thinking about changing jobs. 74 per cent of aid workers are involved in verbal aggression every week. And I am not talking about the emergency services that are being set up in some cities by youth gangs, after which they are being crowned. These questions have been raised several times here. They're not my grades. It is not the figures of the Flemish interest. They're figures from VIAS. Madam Secretary, because these figures are so hallucinatory, so dramatic, because it is five after twelve, what measures will you take to stop this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u67	Madam President, Mr Depoortere, ladies and gentlemen, I share your dismay at those figures, which have become clear on the basis of an investigation, in cooperation with the Home Office, following a survey of the aid workers. It is important that we have this image, because if we want to do something about the phenomenon, we need to know exactly what it is about. The fact that these figures are rising is particularly worrying. We also see that this is often related to alcohol and drugs. The hardening of the world, including on social media, also leads to forms of violence against aid workers. That's a big problem. It has an impact on disability, but of course it also affects people's personal lives and society as a whole. We have to deal with that. We must do something about this. That is also what we are doing today. There is the Mutual Respect campaign, to make the public aware of the respect that our aid workers deserve. I will also enter into dialogue with the young people and the aid workers shortly, and in particular we will talk about this senseless violence and see how we can do it better. We'd better equip the paramedics. We better arm them with training, so that they become more resistant to that violence. Of course, it must not stop at prevention, but we must also deal with it in the right way. That is why I also ask my colleague in the Justice Department to make a real effort to ensure that cases of violence against aid workers are always prosecuted. I also call for the introduction of a penalty-aggravating element in relation to acts of violence which victims aid workers. For the sake of proper imagery, I would like to stress that it is also important for all victims to file complaints. Our police services are already on social media today, so that as many cases as possible can be identified and monitored, including through social media. I also mention the bodycam project, which we are working on. Aid workers deserve our respect and support. I will continue to do everything in my power to deal with violence against aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that violence against aid workers, who work day and night to help others, should always be severely punished. Alternative penalties are no longer appropriate, only effective penalties. Nor should those penalties be merely conditional, they must be enforced. One does not ask words, but actions to achieve zero tolerance. The Flemish Interest has submitted a bill for discussion in the Committee on Home Affairs. We ask that emergency services be equipped with protective equipment and that they can also be equipped with pepper spray to defend themselves. I believe that the solution lies there, along with your appeal to the Minister of Justice to focus on zero tolerance, because it is not five to twelve, but five to twelve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u69	This concludes the oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u70	Madam President, out of respect for the Ukrainian representatives who were here today, I did not make a comment earlier. However, I would like to return to the decision of the Conference of Presidents, which has been cited here a number of times. Yesterday, the Conference decided that no more notes should be taken to the Chamber. That is what the Rules of Procedure say, by the way. I note, however, that all the group leaders present were in agreement with this yesterday at the Conference, but very few people have actually complied with it today. The agreement was not only that no more notes could be taken, the microphone would also be switched off if the speaker did. I'm asking you to respect that agreement in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u71	Mrs Depraetere, I am not sure that everyone agrees with that. We will probably have to discuss this again at the Conference of Presidents. However, I believe that speakers who do not use notes are more understandable. Members who do not use paper as a medium are obviously much more intelligible and facilitate the work of our interpreters. It's a fact. We are therefore going to ask for a gradual transition to this reality of our Rules of Procedure. I know that using papers is a long tradition, but it's time to think about finally getting rid of this little support. This will allow you to express yourself more freely, more distinctly and in a more powerful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u72	Madam President, I support Mr Depraetere's remarks. It has indeed been agreed, but it is also simply the Rules of Procedure. I understand that all this needs to grow a little bit, but we have to be careful that it grows. It must therefore also be noted. The same expectation applies to the ministers, who, of course, are also keen to show here, without any doubt, how they manage their dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u73	The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2484/1-2) The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2484/1-2) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 24 February 2022, members may vote until today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 February 2022, Members may vote until 4 p.m. You now have 47 minutes to finish the votes, do not hesitate to go to the General Secretariat. This is the last time we proceed in this way. Indeed, since the health rules are no longer in force, this vote is the last to be held by secret ballot in the General Secretariat. The following votes will be taken in plenary here by ballot. The two youngest members present (Ms. Melissa Hanus and Nawal Farih) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. The meeting will take place after 4 p.m. in Room 3. The two youngest members present (Ladies Melissa Hanus and Nawal Farih) are invited to attend the recording of the votes. This will take place after 4 p.m. in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u74	This proposal was adopted by the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee under Art. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the Committee on Social Emancipation in application of Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u75	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2503/2) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2503/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u76	Madam Chair, I refer to my written report. Peter De Roover}(N-VA): Madam President, Mr Van Peel held a sanitary stop. She's on her way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u77	It seems to me to have been placed in the order of passage. Would it be possible to insert me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u78	I got a white one. Come on, Mrs. de Laveleye!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u79	I am sincerely sorry, it will be the same for text 3. Thank you for your flexibility. I must say that in this week of 8 March, a week of struggle for women's rights, it is particularly important and interesting for all of us to bring a text that affects our rights and opportunities as women workers. When it comes to women's rights, the issue of employment is quite central. It is true that many other questions can be asked when talking about women's rights, but it would be wrong to diminish the role of employment in our journey in terms of security, autonomy and, of course, emancipation. As is well known, the position of women in the field of work remains quite special, if not yet largely unequal. There is still talk in Belgium of a wage gap between women and men, which remains a fairly sensitive reality. It is known that the glass ceiling and the sticky floor also limit the possibilities for women in the field of work. In addition, there is an imbalance between men and women in the distribution of paid work outside the home and unpaid work within the home. In Belgium, we are still talking about almost an hour and thirty of difference. One hour and thirty a day, one can imagine what it does a week. We also know, of course, that women are overrepresented when it comes to caring for sick people in our surroundings or community. This obviously has a significant impact in terms of part-time work, lower income, lower pensions, but also, of course, higher levels of poverty. As part of our work, we have not talked about employment in general, but about the issue of entrepreneurship in particular. But we have seen through the various hearings that, in the area of entrepreneurship, inequalities are equally striking. It is known that only 34 per cent of the self-employed in Belgium are self-employed, and that the rate of self-employment in the female labour force is around 10 per cent, compared with 18 per cent for men. And looking closer, we see that in the area of innovation, which is often the most profitable area in the entrepreneurship sector, women are even less represented. It is clear that the context of the pandemic has further increased the vulnerability of women in the field of work in general, and in the field of entrepreneurship in particular. All of us were able to discover the latest Eurobarometer a few days ago, which shows that 38% of respondents said that the pandemic had had a negative impact on their income and on the balance between work and private life on a European scale overall. One hearing among many highlighted the impact of the pandemic on women entrepreneurs, Ms. Azghoud of the "Women in Business" platform, which declined the various impacts the pandemic may have had on women entrepreneurs in Belgium. For those who have not had the chance to follow this work, I refer you to the report. It is suspected that independent women have been and are still facing specific challenges in the area of the health crisis. It was therefore interesting for our committee to decide a few weeks on this issue. The Senate did it just before us, in 2020. Nevertheless, it was interesting for the House to also focus on this work. I will not, of course, take up all the elements that have arisen from the hearings. I'll only take a few of them. We have been reminded of evidence. It is that strengthening the position of women in entrepreneurship is relevant from any point of view. This is relevant in economic terms. This is relevant in terms of employment. This is relevant in terms of resilience for our economic fabric and, today, for our redeployment after the health crisis. But this is obviously also relevant in terms of equality between women and men. The hearings also highlighted that there are specific issues for women in the area of entrepreneurship. As we know, entrepreneurship presents particular challenges. However, a particular challenge emerged from all hearings. It's access to finance. Women face more denial of credit than men. Women start with less capital than men and usually have a smaller network. As a result, they are more difficult to raise funds. There is also a lack of role models for women. The business world remains strongly a world of men, made up of boys clubs, images of men who have succeeded in sectors in sight. There is a lack of meaningful images of women in this context. Having to juggle private and professional life limits women in the field of entrepreneurship. This is clearly an important cultural weight. Women are expected to play a stabilizing and structuring role for the family, not the role of the one who takes risks and takes part in the work adventure; this is particularly affecting women. On the basis of these findings, it has been very interesting for our opinion committee to reflect together on the recommendations that can be submitted to our government. There's a whole series of them. I am not going to call them back here, but I will mention three of them. It is important for us to remember that it is essential to have comprehensive data in all areas of society, including in the field of women's entrepreneurship. We can't have public policies targeted at women if we don't know exactly what we're talking about. This was recalled by the Employment FPS. It seemed important to us to ask our Government to continue its efforts in this area. It was also important to remember that we must continue to build a full social status with full rights for women in all aspects of entrepreneurship, including pensions and employment. It is also necessary to move forward, for example, on maternity leave. I will conclude with the first request which, for me, is central. It is a matter of continuing the societal struggle. We must continue, collectively, to deconstruct all gender-related clichés and to combat them actively in social life, and in the field of business in particular. This work has taken us for several weeks. I think it has been particularly interesting to focus on this area of employment, which is perhaps less well known to the general public, but which has brought rich debates and a resolution that will surely be useful to our government's work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u80	Madam President, our group will abstain and I will explain why. This is the kind of resolution behind which good intentions lie, which I will not deny. There is still a great deal of work to be done in relation to women who undertake, but also in relation to entrepreneurship in general. Especially after COVID-19, that challenge is enormous. However, what frustrates me time and time again, including in this resolution, is the thinking of boxes. I know we have an advisory committee that will do everything in its power to do so. Previously it was the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, now it has become the Gender Advisory Committee. When I tried to go a little wider in this social emancipation and also to agree on the rights of certain groups, such as children or people with disabilities, that was welcomed as annoying, because it had to be about women. We gave that advisory committee a different name. It is now called the Gender Advisory Committee, and no one can talk about anything other than women. The biggest debate is then about what we will call these women. Is it someone who feels like a woman, is it women who undertake? That is what the debates are about. I'm tired of that. There are some good things in this resolution. I won't deny that. If that were not the case, we would be voting against it. For example, the combination of work and private life is a fantastic thing that we need to think about both in terms of entrepreneurship and in terms of many other things, but I would like to get rid of the story that this debate is about women only. That's bullshit. If there had been a resolution here today that would have fully expanded entrepreneurship and the way and access to entrepreneurship and made it more accessible to everyone, whether one or two poor people are women or men, black, white or red, I would have paid my full attention to it, but I cannot support the belief that this kind of resolution has been repeated over and over again and that it is often unintentionally very polarizing and derogatory with regard to women. It will remain with abstinence. I continue to hope that this advisory committee will ever think further than that. That has been the case before. The resolution on intra-family violence was an example of this. I would have had a great deal of difficulty getting the word men because they deserve policy too. Only it was a pity that I had to make an effort to admit that there are male victims and even, imagine, female offenders. So much for the explanation of why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the hearings we have conducted in recent weeks in the context of women's entrepreneurship have once again highlighted the many obstacles women face in the labour market. This is the case for female employees, as is the case for women who, of course, wish to undertake certain activities. Currently, women account for between 30 and 35 per cent of the total number of self-employed workers, but entrepreneurship still seems too often associated with men. Women very often remain confined to administrative functions or to a role of helpers, with, as was pointed out at our hearings, in the worst cases, a total absence of status. Even today, women who wish to take up business continue to face difficulties in accessing credit. They are still subject to prejudice, stereotyping and far too often, and in fact all women workers face difficulties in reconciling their private, family and working lives. The aim of this text is, therefore, to raise women's awareness of the opportunities offered by entrepreneurship, to support them in their efforts and to help them overcome these famous obstacles on their way. In this context, the information that can be given to them is essential. It is also necessary to be able to provide them with quality support that allows them to reconcile private and professional life, while continuing to work on a social status in its own right and on their pension rights. As foreseen in the Government Agreement, it will also be important to be able to evolve and harmonize the different forms of leave. Finally, as has been explained by many speakers, the collection of data on female entrepreneurs must be able to be intensified, in cooperation with various actors involved in entrepreneurship. Today, I won't be much longer. My colleagues will probably have the opportunity to come back to other points in the text, which is truly in the wake of a series of recommendations that are very interesting and which were adopted by the Senate at the end of 2020 and which we will obviously support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u82	Colleagues, in this Parliament we pay particular attention to women entrepreneurs. There is still an inequality between men and women within the entrepreneurial world. That should be partly remedied by this resolution. Entrepreneurship is often described with terms associated with men. Entrepreneurship itself is regarded as a masculine world. The findings show not only that fewer women start their own business, but also that women have a smaller growth rate. Entrepreneurship as a policy theme has gained considerable value in recent years. It is becoming aware of the strength of entrepreneurship as an economic growth engine, both at regional, national and European level. This resolution has taken into account the overall policy objective of increasing the degree of entrepreneurship. It is therefore certainly important to encourage and support female entrepreneurs or candidates. As a result of these favourable developments, the proportion of women engaged in self-employment remains much smaller than the proportion of men. Over the past few years, it has also been recognised that there is an important potential in the female population. Moreover, one of the findings is that women face additional difficulties in finding funding for the start-up and expansion of their business. Women entrepreneurs have a less extensive network. Some lenders also consider women less skilled. Women entrepreneurs often lack the right contacts and mentors to find the right informal help and information to start a successful activity. Another observation is that there are fewer women than men who settle as self-employed as a result of the traditional division of labour between women and men. Women still tend to take care of the household and the children. A combination of family responsibilities and self-employment is therefore too heavy a task for many women. When the children have reached a certain age, care tasks are reduced. The Flemish Interest has tabled several amendments in committee, with a view, inter alia, to increasing the supply of sick children, better alignment with the opening hours of schools, services and bodies, equalisation of maternity leave for workers and self-employed persons, an increase in tax deductibility for childcare, better support for single parents or single people and the treatment of tax discrimination. These amendments were not accepted. They would have only benefited from this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, our group will vote in favour of this resolution because it is a good start. However, we find it regrettable that the measures are not far-reaching, complete and well-thought-out enough. [[.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than one in three independents (35%) is a woman. Within the sectors most affected by the health crisis, the presence of independent women is very high: Horeca, 38% of women; culture and leisure, 37%; and sale, 33%. It should be borne in mind that the drop in turnover during the closing periods varies between 70 and 85 %, depending on the independent sectors and the possibilities of maintaining a pellicular activity. Moreover, as of July 2020, our independent minister called for the inclusion of a specific component of support for women's entrepreneurship in the recovery plan. I also know that my colleague Florence Reuter is very attached to this subject and is following every step forward closely. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Opinion Committee who participated in the drafting of this motion for a resolution. Our businesses and self-employed people are indeed an essential labour force in our economy. To adopt this text would be to send them a much needed political message, in the light of the recent covid crisis that they had to endure and pass through. It is also a reminder to the government that it will continue its action in a timely and concrete manner. Two days after International Women's Rights Day, this text obviously also contains a special symbol. The hearings in the Opinion Committee have shown us that there is still a long way to go. I will mention among other things the Syndicat national des indépendants (SNI), the Réseau Diane or Microstart. Indeed, we believe that women's entrepreneurship deserves constant and more intensive support. Of course, the hearings recalled the significant income disparity, ranging from 28% in the professional sector to 49% in services, although a slight improvement was observed between 2015 and 2019. This proposal expresses specific requests to the government, including whether and why women receive less financial support for their businesses from banks or related credit agencies; to provide concrete support to organizations that accompany and coach entrepreneurs for information and awareness-raising on the importance of professional and training networks; to continue to work quickly and structurally to bring the social status of self-employed persons, employees and civil servants closer together; and to ensure that women entrepreneurs are well informed of their social rights, for example with regard to the right to maternity assistance after maternity leave. I would also point out that the government agreement provides for a "structured consultation with the social partners on the simplification, harmonisation and optimisation of different leave systems, paying particular attention to the reasons for leave linked to care and the reconciliation of working life with family life". The harmonization of the relationship between private and professional life is, as we know, essential. During the parliamentary work, the SNI highlighted the demand for more flexible time slots in nurseries and day-care centres, bearing in mind that, according to a survey, 22% of women opt for self-employment status as a complementary measure in order to make a springboard for a main self-employment activity. The social status of the self-employed and, in particular, of women is equally essential. A survey found that 38 per cent of self-employed women have already considered ending their work because of their low social status. Of course, this text does not mean that we want to favour entrepreneurs over entrepreneurs. Of course, all entrepreneurs in all sectors of our economy must be supported. But let us repeat: yes, some groups have more difficulties than others. That is why we must constantly focus on defining targeted measures for the attention of, among other things, women who are embarking on a business project. This implies a better overview of the situation in our society. Under the previous legislature, in order to better objective this situation, INASTI and SPF Economy had been asked to provide statistics refined on a gender basis. Statistics provided by the SPF Economy show that the female entrepreneurship rate is above the average of the 27 Member States of the European Union. It is imperative that we continue in this direction by gathering, informing and training. To take an example, it is of paramount importance to raise awareness among young women from an early age of the pathways leading to business and professional independence, by concretely supporting, among other things, existing initiatives such as the association "100 000 entrepreneurs Belgium", which organises a week dedicated to women entrepreneurship in the country's secondary schools. There is also a need to support the sharing of experiences, with model roles, monitoring of women's entrepreneurship, facilitating access to finance and other actions. The action of the current government is positive and concrete, in particular that of the minister in charge of the Independents, who continues our political priority of supporting entrepreneurs. Acts are taken. For example, last October, a €280,000 public contract was awarded to four entrepreneurs' network project holders. Another example is the introduction of a women's entrepreneurship barometer, so that they can finally have figures on their number, income or the sectors where they are most active. It is our responsibility to be ambitious for these risk-taking and wealth-creating women. This entrepreneurship obviously concerns all levels of power. This proposal calls on the government to cooperate with the federated entities to strengthen the fight against gender stereotypes within education and to develop the spirit of starting from school. That's essential! Every woman, whatever her situation, has an inalienable right to initiative. It is a valuable right that must be protected, supported and valued. As you will have understood, the MR Group strongly supports the resolution submitted today for your vote. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the week of International Women's Day, it is appropriate for us to table a resolution on women who undertake or wish to undertake. This International Women's Day is still necessary because the scale of discrimination is still greater for the group of women, including for the group of women entrepreneurs. I would like to mention a number of figures, because I think we should not be blind to that. They're really hitting our chests. For example, there is an annual income difference of 30% between male and female entrepreneurs in the main occupation. Only one starter in three is a woman. Seven out of ten Belgian women entrepreneurs are struggling to make a living, especially during their maternity leave. As a result, 82% of these women continue to work. I believe that these figures are significant. It is therefore important that we have a Gender Committee, where we can certainly raise this issue. It is important that we also exploit the potential of women. There is an under-utilised potential for female entrepreneurship. It is simply a must that we address, with a view to gender equality. There are many thresholds that have been raised in the hearings by several speakers. Let me briefly sum them up. Firstly, access to capital. There is clearly a stereotyping that prevents women from accessing capital. Secondly, there is a lack of social status that slows down entrepreneurship for women. Thirdly, there is gender stereotyping from an early age. Fourthly, reconciling work with private life is more difficult. Fifthly, there is a lack of networks and role models, which can increase the visibility of self-employed women. That is why we have had an active input into this resolution, particularly as regards access to capital. It is important that those who want to start also have sufficient capital. Above all, we want forms of microfinance. They already exist today, and there can be new ones. It is important for our government to take initiatives that are low-threshold, fast and efficient and that ensure that the female potential is exploited. It must ensure that women who want to enter into business have capital available. In addition, there is more risk aversion in women than in men. We must ensure that we address the existing gender stereotyping in education, which none of us want, in a new committee. It has already been established that there is still gender bias, especially in the case of female entrepreneurship. That is why we need financial education, including for the creation and management of a company. These initiatives exist, they deserve sufficient attention and they should actually reach women. We should not only have brochures, we should also ensure that the necessary information reaches the right target group. For this, we need the active participation of self-employed organisations. A third important element is the combination of work and private life. It is important that this is not only there for employees, but also for enterprising, self-employed women, who are effectively struggling. Especially during the corona crisis, it was very difficult for women to continue to undertake. Even now that we are over the peak, it is hard to believe that women cannot take maternity leave. This is important for the health of both mother and child. I shall now turn to one final aspect. We have also seen it in politics, role models are important. Women who have entered politics have been a role model for pulling other women over the line. The same applies to female entrepreneurship. Let's put punitive, strong female entrepreneurs in the spotlight. Let us set up the necessary networks for this. Let's make it accessible. Let us also make women who want to do business visible. In this way, we want to encourage the government to remove the various thresholds. That is the only point on which I agree with Mrs Van Peel: resolutions must not remain in the closet; we must actively use them to ensure that we get a level playing field. We need to give young girls a clear signal to undertake, so that this becomes an interesting and realistic piste for them. That is why our resolution fully supports this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u85	First of all, I would like to congratulate all women who took action in the streets on 8 March 2022. Year after year it goes into crescendo and there is more battle, both on the workplace and on the street. I am convinced that we must continue along this path in order to eliminate the many forms of inequality for women. With regard to the motion for a resolution, it calls for a supportive policy to remove obstacles for women who wish to undertake. That is, of course, necessary, because discrimination against women is a widespread problem. Women are disadvantaged and excluded in all facets of our society, even if they want to start a business themselves. We are certainly thinking of the small entrepreneurs, who are having a much more difficult time. In Zelzate, the board decided that small self-employed workers have to pay less taxes than the large multinationals. That's a good example. If women want to undertake, they should also be given the opportunity to do so. Gender stereotypes and a hostile climate are unjust obstacles for women to do what they feel a passion for. It is therefore a good thing that policy is paying attention to these obstacles, researching them and trying to get rid of them. We very much support that. However, the proposal for a resolution defines women's empathy rather limited. That's what I said on the advisory committee. Its purpose is to encourage the female entrepreneur as an example of the exonerated woman. We do not agree with that. The main examples of women's emancipation are not just individual success stories for us, where women have only managed to set up a business. We prefer to look at the many women around the world who unite and fight together for their rights, for equality and emancipation. In our view, we would have worked better on other matters, as I said in the Advisory Committee. After all, from my conversations with women in many places on 8 March 2022, entrepreneurship was not the first theme they raised. The first major problem facing women is the ubiquitous violence against women, ranging from intimidation and domestic violence to sexual violence and femicide. Four out of five women once came into contact with sexual violence. This is far more than the number of people discriminated against in companies. Perhaps we should have used the time for discussions in the advisory committee to reflect in Parliament on how to tackle gender-based violence. Secretary of State Schlitz does have a national action plan against gender-based violence, but Parliament's role was limited to a few hours of discussion and therefore five minutes per Member of Parliament, which we do not think is serious. However, we, as a representative of the people, have an essential role to play in defining how the problem is to be tackled, which is crucial. A second problem for which women came out last week is the unequal distribution of domestic work and the dismantling of our public services, which only makes that problem worse. Perhaps we should have taken the time in the advisory committee to examine how we can deal with the problem that care tasks still fall mainly on the shoulders of women. This better distribution of tasks starts with good public services, including in childcare, around which a whole lot has been created in Flanders, education and residential care centres. This is very important if we want discrimination to be eliminated. We could also have worked on the action plan developed by Femma World Women on reducing working hours by the 30-hour week. This is quite different from the Vivaldi government's employment deal over the 38-hour working week, which we believe will not result in a better division between work and care tasks. We could also have discussed socio-economic inequality in the advisory committee, a complaint which I heard very often last week. Many workers at the airport with very low wages, who are slightly increased by contributions, were temporarily unemployed due to the coronapandemic, which resulted in an income of less than EUR 1,000 per month; for part-time workers this was sometimes even an income of EUR 400 to 500 per month. Those workers really end up in poverty. Workers of the service cheque companies who will now have to pay 2 euros for a litre of house heating oil, despite the constant struggle, fail to obtain a wage increase, because the wage standard applies. The corona crisis has only made inequality worse. According to the International Labour Organisation, Belgium does not score well in terms of pay between men and women. In Belgium, wage losses were highest during the health crisis. This is due to the fact that workers in quarantine fall back to 40% of their wages. I gave the example of the airport. If you have a very low gross wage and you get only 70% of the wage, you end up in poverty. I note that the Vivaldi Government not only has a close eye on women's empathy, because also in the socio-economic field inequality continues to increase. In the policy paper, Ms Schlitz highlighted the gaping pay gap, the pension gap and the increased risk of poverty among women. What's against the pay gap? That's a pay freeze of 0.4%. The Secretary of State stresses the importance of a balanced division between work and private life. It is then thought that a collective reduction in working hours would be advocated, but instead the underpaid women would be given even more flexibility with the majority working deal. Both the glass ceiling and the sticky floor are mentioned, but then nothing is proposed for the vast majority of women employed. This motion for a resolution to support women who undertake is already the most concrete thing the government has done against the socio-economic inequality between women and men, but what about the vast majority of women who work in paid employment? In short, despite the fact that the text contains a lot of good passages, we still see a number of substantive problems. For example, the encouragement of entrepreneurship as an example of women's empathy is a very narrow approach and it is not clear what is meant by harmonisation of the statute. Will we harmonize up or down? For all these reasons, we will abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u86	Madam President, I am a little surprised that something beautiful that is being realized today is being completely ruined and loaded with all the sins of the world, with all the problems that we may have to deal with. Tuesday was International Women's Day. This doesn't exist for nothing. This week I went to a book performance by Mrs Vandendriessche for her book Dream, Dare, Do. This book supports women in entrepreneurship. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Why is this wrong? You can support everyone and anyone can help. It is very positive that it is happening. After all, I am also convinced that not everyone is equally mature or strong to be able to handle entrepreneurship immediately. These people need that support anyway. I am an entrepreneur myself and I am certainly not born from the very first day to be able to handle this. It's very important. In the book show I heard that women who are engaged internationally have to prove that they can count financially if they are looking for funding, and that because they have four children. This proposal is very important and a very positive step. This can go bigger. No one's against that. Everyone's for that. Every step in the right direction must be welcomed and supported. That is the position of our liberal party. We must certainly continue to support this. Indeed, women are being tested more often, certainly have more difficulties in getting capital. I tell friends of mine every day, women for whom I speak as a member of Zonta International for women's empowerment, that it starts with education. We all have an assignment if we want to make our ladies resilient at any level, whether this is sexual violence or entrepreneurship, anywhere in the world. We have to make them strong, support them. That is why I certainly support this proposal and I am proud to be able to propose it today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that two days ago it was International Women's Rights Day. The opportunity to honour all those who have fought and are still fighting for women's rights, for the rights of girls, but also to recall all the progress that still needs to be made to ensure that women are fully respected, that they are also safe and that they are fully free to make their choices. Some have rightly pointed out that when we talk about women's rights, we rarely think about the employment dimension. Yet it is through the work that women can accomplish, emancipate themselves and carry out their projects and even their dreams. It is also through work that women gain economic independence that protects them from other violence: precariousness, harassment, domestic violence, psychological pressure, physical and even sexual assault. However, today, in 2022, too many women still give up their projects in the face of the inherent difficulties of the status of women: lack of valorisation of the sectors which are particularly feminized, inequality of domestic tasks, sometimes exorbitant costs of guards and nurseries or even sexist and stereotyped reflexes. Simone de Beauvoir rightly said: "A political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights. These rights are never acquired. You will have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life." After two years of health crisis, these words have never resonated so accurately. Because these difficulties inherent in the status of women, which I have mentioned at the moment, have been considerably reinforced throughout this crisis. As if this crisis had further emphasized the sexist and patriarchal nature of our society and its terrible effects on the daily lives of women and girls. I could therefore only welcome the fact that our Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Social Emancipation, has taken up this issue through the prism of a very specific area and, yet, too often attributed to men: entrepreneurship. I am particularly pleased that, as the United Nations has recently emphasized, the full and equitable participation of women in all the constituent elements of our society is a fundamental human right. And among these constituent elements, there is precisely work, and in particular the world of entrepreneurship, in which women, however, still struggle to find their right place. It is not for lack of ambition, ideas or skills – far away, far away. Moreover, more and more women are embarking on self-employment. In five years, their number has increased by 3.2 per cent, as the UCM recalled on Monday; although the increase is ever more marked among men, at 4.6 per cent for them. Nevertheless, the entrepreneurial woman's journey remains fraught with obstacles, many obstacles which have been explained to us at length by the experts we have had the opportunity and the chance to hear in committee. In particular, there is a very difficult reconciliation between private and professional life. According to a survey also conducted by UCM, 20 per cent of women show difficulties and believe that a change of mentality is necessary throughout society. At the financial level, women are equally involved in the management of their business, but more women are misinformed about the financing opportunities that exist for them – hence a fall on themselves. Women also face more difficulties in obtaining credit from banks. In general, they have less confidence in themselves when it comes to starting and running their business, not least because they can rely less on a network or support, but also because of the presence of stereotypes that still surround the entrepreneurship trades, supposedly reserved for men. They therefore have a less solid basis for starting their business, so that they may have concerns about the chances of success and success of a project. Finally, the world of entrepreneurship is not exempt from gender discrimination, but also from intersectional discrimination. On the basis of all these observations, which are just as numerous as they are overwhelming, of which I have been able to mention only one part, our House therefore had to take up the problem with arms by drafting this motion for a resolution, to which my group was able to contribute by adopting certain amendments. Moreover, I would like to warmly thank the colleagues who supported them in committee. I am surprised today to hear some of my colleagues, particularly from the N-VA and the PTB, saying that their group will not support this text because it does not fulfil its objectives. Colleagues, where were you during our work? Why did you not at that time table amendments to ensure that this text was perfected to enable it to fulfil its objectives correctly and fully, since it is apparently not your opinion today? It was indeed a matter of moving forward constructively, whether in the majority or in the opposition, as is my case. It is, in any case, in this way that we have obtained the precision that the active promotion of tailor-made entrepreneurship among women, as well as the deconstruction of all gender-related clichés, takes place at an early age. It is also a long-standing fight by my DeFI party in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, because we know how early in childhood beliefs, stereotypes and ambitions and self-confidence are forged. We have also been able to highlight the intersectional discrimination that exists in the context of women's entrepreneurship, but also the need to compile statistics on women's entrepreneurship that originate from immigration, since the difficulties they face are even more numerous than for others. The motion for a resolution also provides for the involvement of actors in the field by asking the government to work for the training of relays and intermediaries in organisations specialising in the support of independent women. Finally, I am pleased that it has been pointed out that successful entrepreneurs who will promote entrepreneurship for other women who also have entrepreneurial ambitions will be successful models to value. It is true that, like any motion for a resolution resulting from joint work and therefore from compromise between the parties, I must express, in spite of everything, some regrets and share with you a sense of incompleteness. As I said, explaining and promoting entrepreneurship is essential in school. It was for this reason that I felt it essential to clarify that cooperation with federated entities to combat gender stereotypes in education should be accompanied by an invitation to develop what is called the spirit of undertaking at school, which unfortunately was not accepted. However, when I hear some of my colleagues today, everyone seems to agree on this need. This is regrettable, because combined with education aimed at eradicating clichés, this development of the spirit of entrepreneurship in school would have stimulated the interest of young girls in areas that are not sufficiently presented to them as an opportunity for them; these areas seem too often inaccessible, if not inconceivable. Maybe it's my biggest regret. On the financial side, too, the majority did not want my group's request for measures to eliminate differences in income between men and women in terms of the income of self-employed persons in their main and supplementary capacities. A financial obstacle which, however, considerably hampers women's willingness to engage as self-employed. We also want a commitment to a regular evaluation of the measures taken and implemented, as well as their objectivation through statistics. The motion for a resolution stresses the need to collect data on female entrepreneurship. That's very good, but what do we do with all this data? It is therefore necessary, in our view, to specify that numerical targets must be established in relation to these data. Objectives that must, at some point, be achieved. Finally, my last regret concerns my group's request to begin a reflection on the alignment of maternity leave and the pension of the self-employed with those of the employees. This is one of the biggest obstacles faced by women entrepreneurs, but also one of the biggest fears for those who have not yet started. While the motion for a resolution calls for the approximation of the social status of self-employed persons, employees and officials, in particular by assessing and harmonising the various holidays, as provided for in the government agreement, there is nothing in this resolution that is explicit or concrete with regard to maternity leave and pension. Colleagues, as you will understand, my regrets are many. That is why my group will ensure that we support the implementation of the measures that have not been included in this motion for a resolution. For the rest, I must acknowledge, as I have said, that this text should make it possible, through its relevant and useful requests, to facilitate and promote entrepreneurship among women and girls, but also to allow them to dare and fulfil their dream of entrepreneurship. That is why my group will support, despite these shortcomings, this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u88	I would just like to respond briefly, because Mr Rohonyi asked why our group did not table amendments as a criticism. She's actually right. I will therefore immediately table the amendment to add the word 'women','men' or 'women' after each time the resolution says 'women' and 'people'. That is my criticism. It's very nice of you to put it on. I also hope that you certainly do. Because I can't imagine you being against men who want to commit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u89	Mrs Van Peel, you are free to table all the amendments. However, it is quite curious to do so in plenary when you have had the opportunity to do so during our work in the committee. I would like to remind you of the name of this committee: the opinion committee for Social Empowerment. In other words, the objective of this committee is to ensure full equality between men and women and thus to target those sectors in which there is a section of the population that does not have the weapons to be able to fully emancipate. We have seen that there is an over-representation of women in domestic violence, which is why we have adopted a motion for a resolution together to call for strong action by the government. This time we have targeted entrepreneurship because women do not have their rightful place. There is also a problem in terms of contraception, which is why we will soon be working on these topics. I am surprised to hear that the N-VA considers that there is a problem to be able to target those areas where women do not have a proper place and, therefore, do not have the opportunity to achieve and emancipate themselves as they have the right to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u90	We're not gonna agree on it. I've figured that out a long time. It is not about the fact that in my group or anywhere else there would be no notion of the fact that there are still many things where, for example, women are not treated equally. That is absolutely the case, and there are still a lot of issues to be addressed. In fact, there are a lot of groups that are not treated in the same way. What I don't believe in is a policy that puts this box culture in the spotlight. That is my problem with this resolution. I think that making the combination of work and private life more possible for all those engaged in it is a good thing, but why should it be done in a resolution for women? That's something that should be there for everyone. If that means that more women can do it, then that is very good, but stop with that box mentality, because one should not focus policies on a particular group of people. Policies must be there for everyone. That was also my problem with intra-family violence, until I got the Gender Advisory Committee with great difficulty that a male victim also deserved a policy. That is what this is about, but I know that you will never understand it, because today's activist feminism is destroying more than it does right.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u91	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u92	• Valerie Van Peel (2503/03)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u93	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u94	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Daniel Senesael, Eric Thiébaut, Hervé Rigot, Julie Song, Bert Moyaers, Eva Platteau, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u95	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2264/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2264/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mrs Goethals, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u96	Madam President, I would like to briefly explain the voting behaviour of our group on this motion for a resolution. We shall vote against, although I did not initially expect that. The first request is rather hollow, faint and meaningless, but it does not have to be de facto opposed. The main reason is that, in our view, the second request's fond has been amended. We are certainly not against the final objective, because complaint mediation with the police is very important and will always be, but that has already been the case in the past. Request 1 says that complaint treatment should be given a central role to the police, but that is de facto already the case today. So that's a little too faint. The second request is a little too patronizing. Let me explain what we mean by that. I was able to support the principle of the round table 100%, but it was then decided by amendment on which to discuss the round table. De facto, therefore, the participants at the round table no longer have any freedom of movement to set their own discussion points. We therefore do not see these two requests as positive. That is why we will not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this text reflects a topicality that no longer needs to be demonstrated. Relations between citizens and public services are growing, as illustrated by several reports or even current events. The police, whether federal or local, unfortunately do not escape this observation. Yet the trust of our fellow citizens, young and old, in our institutions and mutual respect are essential keys to our life in society. Moreover, I have had a number of occasions to discuss with the minister about her initiatives in this area. The establishment of such a relationship of trust within a rule of law greatly contributes to living together. On the one hand, this relationship of trust provides a sense of security for citizens in their society and their relations with public services. On the other hand, it promotes the creation of a favourable climate for the daily performance of police work. The figures presented in Committee P's 2020 report are of concern, as they indicate an increase in the number of complaints filed with the Committee against members of the police services. We are talking about an increase of more than 17% between 2019 and 2020. These figures reflect a change in the relationship between citizens and police. While this phenomenon is partly due to the crisis of the covid-19 and to the restrictive measures imposed for health reasons, it remains that one cannot remain inactive for the future. If nothing is done, then the tensions reflected in these figures are likely to continue after the crisis of the covid-19. However, this situation cannot become structural, at the risk of questioning a relationship that is a pillar of our life in society. It is for this reason that our group has made this text a priority in the Committee on the Interior because it aims precisely to improve citizens' confidence in their police by strengthening mediation in the handling of complaints within the integrated police force. The main purpose of this text is to include this mediation in the DNA of our law enforcement agencies, which is not the case today. This implies that citizens have an effective right to complain when they feel that their rights have not been respected. In addition to its traditional right to lodge a complaint with a judicial authority in the event of a criminal offence, the Belgian citizen has other non-judicial remedies and, among these so-called alternatives, in the face of facts not constituting an offence but which undermine mutual trust, we find mediation. The very principle of mediation seems to me to be essential in order to respond to this malaise before it is too late and a breach of trust between society and its forces of law and order is brought about. Mediation must therefore facilitate the flow of information, clarify or re-establish relations through the intervention of the mediator, who is neutral, independent and impartial. The aim, of course, is not to replace the judicial system, but to establish an additional practice to help rebuild the network essential to our living together, whose forces of law and order are central actors in the service of the citizens and of our rule of law. The Act of 15 May 2007 on the General Inspectorate assigns to the General Inspectorate of the Federal and Local Police the mediation mission as a means of resolving a non-criminal complaint by a citizen against a police officer. It must be noted, however, that at present this possibility of mediation is largely under-used. Our text is therefore in concrete terms in line with the recommendations of the P Committee, the AIG but also in line with the political guidance notes of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, the aim being to move from words to deeds. This text today has two specific requests as a result of the amendment work carried out in committee on the basis of many extremely interesting written opinions which we have received and of which I thank the authors. Our text aims, on the one hand, to improve and ensure the follow-up of a citizen's complaints through a clear and above all independent procedure in all police areas and at the level of the Federal Police, in order to ensure the follow-up of his complaint and to give him all the necessary support and information. On the other hand, our text calls on the government to organise a round table bringing together the actors concerned in order to identify the elements necessary for the effective and efficient implementation of mediation within the police. The aim of this text is obviously not, as I have said on several occasions in committee, to consider the police to be the enemy, but, on the contrary, to recall its essential role in promoting a sense of security in our society, for all citizens. I hope that the Minister, together with all the stakeholders concerned, will be able to make rapid progress on the basis of this text. Of course, I thank my fellow Members who co-signed it and all those who supported it in committee. As a follow-up to this text on mediation, I believe that we need to continue the work in this House in order to eventually establish a single portal and a uniform complaint resolution for the filing of complaints and denunciations concerning the police. Madam President, I will conclude my speech by thanking my colleague from Vooruit, Bert Moyaers, for his legislative initiative in this area, an important piece of legislation which I have therefore co-signed in the same spirit: to restore a relationship of trust with the citizens and to enable the police to carry out their mission in a favourable climate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, before we speak to Mr Depoortere, I should like to point out that the counting of the naturalization vote will now be held in room 3 by Mrs Hanus and Mrs Farih, whom I thank already.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u99	This resolution was thoroughly discussed in the Committee on the Interior. We have also requested many written opinions on this resolution. It was a serious debate, so I think that was a good thing. I can therefore keep my intervention brief. However, the Flemish Interest will not approve this resolution. In our view, the current legislation already contains sufficient opportunities for the citizens who have a complaint about the action of the police. There's an Internal Surveillance Service in every local police area. We have the General Inspection and finally the Standing Committee P, which is controlled by a parliamentary committee. This resolution is therefore merely a form of formalisation of a practice which has existed for a long time in many police forces, in particular the serene handling and handling of complaints by designated staff, who, in our view, are still doing their job in good conscience. Even when further research is needed, mediation is always given every opportunity. This is also the way the police are working to restore citizens' confidence. In that perspective, a separate additional service in the form of an independent trust cell, led by an independent mediator, is not only unnecessary but also unnecessary. Our group is therefore not in favour of this legal imposition of mediation through a special service to be set up. Moreover, I do not entirely agree with the idea put forward by the proposers. The citizen has confidence in his police. That is why we need to integrate mediation into existing complaint handling and handling. There is therefore no need to change the law. The purpose of the mediation is not served if services Internal Supervision or a new service to be set up would be involved. In this way one would actually create a parallel structure next to the Internal Supervision Service, next to the P Committee, next to the AIG. It would not improve the organisation and efficiency of the police operation. On the contrary, it would, in our view, only make it more complicated for the citizen and his contacts with the police. We therefore follow the advice of the Permanent Committee of Local Police, in which it clearly states that it is not in favour of the legal imposition of mediation through specific, separate services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. The work in committee has made it possible to refine this text, which is now based on the opinions delivered, in particular by the P Committee, by means of specific amendments. Of course, mediation is important in the handling of complaints that citizens may have. The Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) recalled that this mediation has in fact been present for a long time in many police services. As my colleague Philippe Pivin said in committee, this text should not be interpreted as a sign of distrust of our police services, and that is the meaning of my intervention. With my group, I would like to recall the essential task that is being carried out every day by the police forces in our society. It is an increasingly difficult role given the increase in violence in our society. That is why it is important to always be able to show our full confidence in them and to pay tribute to their daily commitment on the ground. That being recalled, we will vote in favour of this proposal, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u101	Madam President, it is clear that the question of trust between the citizen and the police is something fundamental for a society that wants to be calm and secure. In recent times, this confidence has been undermined for various reasons and by several factors. The issue of mediation between the police and the population is therefore important. This is a step in the right direction and it is for these reasons that we will support this proposal. However, I would like to point out that this change, or mediation, will not achieve its objectives if the process is not accompanied by the structural changes that are necessary to ensure this trust between the police and the public. It is therefore necessary to work on several projects, in particular at the level of justice. The proponents of the proposal themselves use the words of the Minister of Justice, who states that the judiciary is over-solicited. I want to point out that we cannot talk about over-solicitation when we talk about justice. However, we can talk about underfunding. That's clear. It is not the citizens who seek justice too much, it is the justice which is not sufficiently funded, which does not have sufficient means to meet the needs of the population. This is a factor that must be taken into account if we are to respond to this problem. We have also submitted this proposal to the police unions. Here I repeat what Mr Moulin of the CSC has said, which insists that this is a good idea, but it can also be a good misconception, because there are not enough staff on the ground to deal with this mediation. This requires another structural change: to allocate the necessary resources to the police areas, to the local police, so that there is staff to carry out this mediation. This is missing today. We can put in place all the new services we want, we will not cut off the funding of justice and the police, if we want to tackle these problems seriously and structurally. More judges are needed to deal with complaints, more training is needed for police officers, there is a need for a well-funded community police force that goes to the citizen's touch, and there is a need for sufficiently funded complaints and mediation services with sufficient human resources. Without these elements, changing the law will remain a hollow promise. That is why, even if we support this text, we insist on all the structural changes necessary to make this text meaningful and not just a formality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, trust in the police is important. The police, your friend is a slogan that we often use in Flanders. Recently, however, figures in the P Committee report show that there are a number of complaints against members of the police services and that they have increased significantly between 2019 and 2020, by as much as 17%. These figures show very clearly that the relationship between police and citizens is changing considerably. That is something we must combat. However, we do not see this resolution as a sign of distrust of the police, quite the contrary. This phenomenon will undoubtedly have been reinforced by the covid crisis, which now seems to be running happily on its last legs. However, it is up to us to work on the future. For Forward, it is very clear that citizens should always be able to complain if they believe that their rights are being violated. It is also in the light of these figures from the P Committee that colleagues Senesael and others from the PS have tabled this resolution. This is a resolution which I am happy to support and which I have co-signed. Both the police zones in our country and the federal police are asked to establish a trust cell led by an independent mediator. The main aim is to prevent us from entering American states where polarisation would only increase. We absolutely must avoid the escalation of incidents between police and civilians. That's bad for both sides. A good relationship between citizens and police is essential in a healthy and safe society. The principle of mediation therefore seems essential to me to respond before it is too late and creates a breach of trust between society and its law enforcement services. That is why I am delighted to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u103	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u104	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u105	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Malik Ben Accour, Wouter De Vriendt, Els Van Hoof, Vicky Reynaert, Séverine de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u106	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1705/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1705/4) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to support a multilateral mechanism for strengthening and financing universal social protection, such as the United Nations "Global Accelerator for Employment and Social Protection". The title was changed by the Commission to "Proposal for a Resolution in support of a multilateral mechanism to strengthen and finance universal social protection, such as the United Nations Global Accelerator for Jobs and Social Protection." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr. De Maegd, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u107	Madam President, the explanatory statement to the resolution before us refers to the covid crisis and to the fact that in countries where the social safety net is not as extensive as in our parts, the shock caused by the covid crisis is much greater. They want to answer that. Of course, the N-VA Group also wants to ensure that low-income countries become more resilient to this shock and that the population becomes more resilient and can be given more protection. With the present proposal, the proposers want to focus on employment but also work on social safety nets. That's absolutely good. However, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as to whether a new transfer to new funds or to what is called an accelerator will really achieve that goal. It is a bit of bypassing the real responsibility that should come from politics. After all, what is the history of the proposal? In fact, it was a fund that would be given concrete financial commitments. I certainly have to admit that a new and better proposal was made after the hearings. The proposal would effectively cooperate with the United Nations. Within this cooperation, the Global Accelerator for Jobs and Social Protection would be developed. The emphasis is placed effectively on job creation and the strengthening of social safety nets. However, ladies and gentlemen, this capacity building, which is called for in eight points in this motion for a resolution, is, in our view, still quite non-binding. It is very important for low-income countries that the emerging informal economy is formally anchored in society and that these social safety nets are formally provided for. That should just be described in detail in the motion for a resolution, but we do not read that in it. We are also concerned about a certain fragmentation of funds. When we look at the development policy paper, we see that there are a lot of funds that are all very well-intentioned, but that one vision, in which we strengthen the decision of the social actors, is missing from the many proposals. In addition, at the EU-Africa Summit, we once again saw a number of mechanisms that encourage fragmentation and do not improve the transparency of the use of funds. The N-VA Group will therefore not support the proposal, because it is too fragmented, too lack of transparency, too little sustainability and too little innovation. We must again and again criticise the development cooperation policy of the Vivaldi parties. Again, we feel once again the lack of inclusion of private actors, which could, however, be very important in setting up social safety nets in countries where this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u108	Madam President, we have had important hearings and debates on the subject of social protection. Social protection is probably our most valuable collective asset. Anyone who has already been ill, who has waited for a child, who has had an accident at work, who has lost a job... social protection is in no way a luxury, but it is the very foundation of a dignified life. No one can boast of never having ever had to benefit from social protection. This will, however, be the case one day, because we will be getting older and we will come at a time when I hope we will be allowed to stop working and benefit from each other's contributions. This foundation of dignity should not be reserved for a few privileged people. However, worldwide, it is known that only 20 per cent of the working-age population enjoys an adequate level of social protection, according to the International Labour Organization (ILO), and that 50 per cent of the population simply does not have access to any protection. For us in Belgium, it is very difficult to take the scale of what this means. Looking closely, we are not surprised to see that the best protected of us live in high-income countries and that the least protected populations live in the most fragile countries. At a time when we are slowly emerging from the peak of a global pandemic, which has had such a strong impact on people around the world and has plunged millions of people into poverty, it was particularly important for us to address this issue. That is what we have done for a few weeks in the Committee on External Relations. We have heard from several experts who have shown us that universal social protection is the best shield against shocks. Shocks, we'll have more. Today we are talking about social protection in the context of the pandemic, but there are epidemics and there will still be, perhaps as serious as we have experienced. There are also climate disasters that are going to multiply or other disasters that will make us increasingly vulnerable to shocks and that will require that we be well organized to deal with them. These hearings have also shown us that the support given by the richest countries, such as ours, to the social protection of the most vulnerable countries is not at all contradictory to the need for them to organize themselves in order to meet the needs of their own people. Several experts have shown us that these actions are complementary and can strengthen each other. The hearings also allowed us to formalize several requests to our government. We know that Mrs Kitir, our Minister for Development Cooperation, had already placed social protection at the heart of her policy as one of the pillars of her international action. This motion for a resolution therefore goes in this direction. We know that a solidarity society is not only more dignified, but also stronger and more resilient, because it is better protected and can thus bounce back. In this capacity, I would like to thank the PS colleagues for joining us in this text and in the discussions that led us to make concrete and stimulating demands to our government. We will see to it that they succeed in the coming months. Thank you again for the quality of these discussions. I'll stop there for today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u109	Thank you, Madame de Laveleye, for respecting your commitment to be brief!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be able to present with you this important text on a concept, social security, which has historically been linked to the commitment and struggle of my group for decades. It's even a founding commitment. Social security is something very important to us. The current health, economic and social crisis poses a huge challenge to the health systems of the affected countries in terms of their ability to withstand the shock. These crises act as a catalyst or even an accentuator of social divides and structural inequalities in the world. By 2022, more than half of the world's population still lived without social protection. These people are directly exposed to successive crises and are multiplying. In this context, only States that have a strong and robust social and health protection system have succeeded in ensuring income security for children, the elderly and those working in the event of unemployment, disability or illness, as well as access to care, including vaccines, for their populations. We are well placed in Belgium to know how crucial social security has been in preventing the collapse of our economy for the past two years. This is what the International Labour Organization (ILO) calls the foundations of universal social protection. The challenges of the pandemic demonstrate, beyond the aspects of globalization, the need to respond globally to the challenges, and thus to finance and organize universal social protection. And, again, for a simple reason: it is a powerful lever of development in the fight against inequality and a lever of resilience in the face of crises, as I said a few moments ago. It is therefore with great pride that I come back to you to propose that you adopt the result of collective work, first of all, with civil society. Indeed, the initiative comes from civil society – it must be said and stressed. On behalf of my group, I also thank the civilian actors for the constructive work they have done. Secondly, the work stems from the hearings at which we were able to listen to very high quality interlocutors, official representations, the ILO, NGOs, trade unions, mutuals and even a representative of a Senegalese mutual who was able to confirm to us the interest in the field, where it is located, to move forward on this crucial issue of financing universal social protection. That is why, for my group and the Socialist Party, it is essential that the government support a multilateral mechanism to strengthen and finance this universal social protection system. Ladies and gentlemen, before thanking you for the work you have done with us on this text, I would like, for the second time today, to quote Jean Jaurès who said something very important to understand what social security is. He said: "Between insurance and assistance... there is an abyss. The attendance (...) is obliged to plead for the realization of this right. On the contrary, the insured has a full right; an absolute right, an unconditional right (...). Magnificent idea of social insurance, which creates a tangible right for all employees, without humiliation." It is precisely the meaning of social security that is a way for every citizen, every worker to contribute to a fund first to ensure his own future and that of his children, but also to ensure his neighbour, his co-worker who is potentially exposed to life accidents. When the miners descended into the mine in the 19th century, before going down to the mine, they each put a ticket in a helmet in case an accident occurred underground. In so doing, depositing this small note of a franc or two francs in the helmet, they invented social security or, in any case, its philosophy. It is to this philosophy that we want to pay tribute today through this text, hoping that this tool can flourish and spread all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish Interest is a social party. That is why we have always been in favour of a highly developed but fair social security system. We are very concerned about the poor development of social security and social protection in poor countries. It is poignant that only 45% of the world's population is covered by at least one social security allowance. So over 4 billion people are not protected. Everyone agrees on the fact that social protection and access to essential health care are basic rights and no privileges. However, the question is how we should address the lack of social protection in developing countries and whether some kind of global fund, as is the case here, is the right instrument for this. The name of the proposal has indeed been changed from the global fund to the multilateral mechanism, but the underlying idea of course remains the same. It is still an international instrument to finance universal social security. Our party has serious questions about the effectiveness of such a social fund for global protection. When we look at Western development policy in recent decades, we can only see that it has largely, and often even completely, failed. Hardly anywhere have developing countries improved to such an extent that it can justify such a system. They have certainly not improved in terms of economic prosperity, living standards, human rights, political stability, corruption, security and education. In a number of countries, we think only of the Sahel, the situation has even deteriorated. In other countries, Afghanistan, to name but one, there has been at most a temporary progress, followed by a complete reversion to the barbaric situation of the past. The common financing of social protection through a global fund is once again based on the concept of giving fish, on which the West has been basing its development policy for a long time now. Should we not go to another paradigm, ladies and gentlemen, and respond to the governments of the Third World countries? Should we not make financial support, free trade agreements and cooperation conditional on concrete reforms and better government governance? When we throw money at it again through a fund like this, we send the signal once again that those countries can continue to squander that money, because the West continues to sponsor. In essence, the creation of a global social protection fund is again about financing countries with often very weak, very corrupt, very undemocratic regimes. Those regimes of these countries often abuse, we cannot deny, the resources of the donor countries to enrich themselves and, above all, their entourage. There are many examples of this. Especially when it comes to a UN-managed fund, in particular under the management of the International Labour Organisation, we believe that there is still a high risk of abuse by the recipient countries. After all, international institutions often suffer from cumbersome bureaucracy, with little transparency, with a lack of national democratic control. We are more in favour of development cooperation and funding social protection through bilateral links, with as much direct control as possible of our resources at national level. We must not shy away from taxpayers' money from our citizens by depositing it in this global fund, of which we do not even know whether it will work. The present resolution attribute an active role and a great deal of responsibility to civil society, as well as to NGOs. Their role in this story is also critically analysed. In the past, there has often been maladministration by NGOs active in the Third World. In a number of NGOs we can have confidence. The Red Cross is an example of this overall. But many NGOs have harmed that trust all too often. Then there is the question of proportional investment in the global fund. How can this formula ensure that all the richer UN countries make an effort to fund the fund? Is there not a risk that only the Western countries will pay the bill, while countries with huge GDP, China for example, show absolutely no interest? How can we guarantee balanced and fair funding by donor countries? All these open questions lead to little enthusiasm on the part of our group. We can conclude that this proposal is based on a global financing of social security in the Third World by wealthy countries, but the governments of these developing countries have repeatedly shown that they do not want or can make long-term investments in social protection or in other areas of society. The colleagues at Open Vld tried to introduce the concept of responsibility and job creation, which we obviously appreciate, but the proposal that we have before us remains very naive, despite the blue sauce that has been poured with amendments. The main reason why we are opposed to such a global fund is that we should not take any risks today with our citizens' taxpayers' money, as we have no guarantee that the fund will work. At a time like today, we find it irresponsible to invest in it. Our people are currently facing increasing energy poverty, an imminent economic recession and perhaps even a food crisis due to the war in Ukraine. Let us therefore begin by putting our house in order before putting money into a utopian project such as this proposal for universal social protection. We will not support this proposal at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u112	Madam President, Belgium has, without boasting, intelligent and generous people who throughout their professional careers are therefore promoters of ideas or promoters of generous or altruistic projects. This is certainly also the case of Olivier De Schutter, who has for many years been defending, among other things, the idea of universal social security. We are struck by the urbanization of the world in the 20th century, by the concentration of populations both in the North and in the South in the wide and vast urban complex where 70% of the planet will therefore live from 2050. Live or survive depending on your country or region. The vast majority of this population in the north of the world has services and rights. We must defend these achievements, that goes without saying. The population of the South suffers from agglutination in cities with destructed urban planning and non-existent social services. An occupational situation that collapses, an illness, a physical injury, old age, the care of children or a pregnant woman. For all these individuals or facts of life, no relief net, no state structure to provide care or social assistance. Madam President, during questions to the government, we debated the fact that the war in Ukraine was causing an upsurge in wheat prices, a staggering increase in the cost of energy, which is hitting us very hard. After two years of fighting the covid where our purchasing power has been undermined, our economies are weakened and our budgets are reduced, we Western economies, but what about the countries of the South? The rise in food prices, the consequences of climate shocks, the cost of supporting small local producers, the difficulty of sustaining inclusive growth for the benefit of often poorer rural areas, all of these factors make it more difficult but imperative to establish effective social protection systems at a time when this urbanization dislodges old family or community solidarity. However, this universal social protection has a budgetary cost, but also what I would call a state cost. Social security needs to be based on a state structure, a competent and non-corrupt administration, a redistributive tax system and, ladies and gentlemen, international financial and skills support – both acting as a leverage: primary launch aid that decreases and disappears after a while. This is the interesting idea of a Global Social Security Fund, which we can link with existing bodies such as the International Labour Organisation or the various programmes promoted by the United Nations. Let's keep this project and save ourselves a new thing! Let's be people in need, let's be active and efficient to translate this great idea into reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the covid pandemic has made it very painfully clear that social protection is necessary. In our own country, we have noticed that a safety net at the moment when one can no longer work or is temporarily unemployed or ill is crucial to providing a livelihood. This is even more painful in developing countries where people in the informal economy do not have a safety net, let alone a pandemic or a covid crisis like this, in the event of an accident, illness, old age or pregnancy. As early as 2015, I tabled a resolution, which was adopted, to put the right to social protection at the heart of development cooperation and to develop a strategy around it. For me, it is a good thing that we are establishing this multilaterally and globally with the Global Accelerator for Jobs and Social Protection. This means that there will actually be a multilateral mechanism that will ensure that the right to social protection is implemented in developing countries too, because of course it is also included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This multilateral mechanism, which we support from Parliament and give to the government, is an absolute necessity. This does not serve to pamper the population there or to relieve those responsible of their responsibility and to provide a system of their own, it serves to give a boost, both financially and technically. For us there are a number of conditions. In particular, strengthening local capacity is important, but also local implementation mechanisms and a local recruitment of additional resources. This is a way of ensuring that this is supported in the countries concerned. A second important condition is that there is full participation of representative stakeholders. I am thinking of the social partners, but also of the civil society that needs to be involved. Thirdly, it must also be a sustainable mechanism. This does not mean that it is a life insurance policy for those countries, which means that they will have unlimited access indefinitely. However, it must ensure that this has the necessary impact, because we will support and finance certain things. This must not only be the result of the pandemic crisis. We need to develop and support the system sustainably to ensure that anyone who becomes ill, gets old or gets an accident or becomes pregnant has some kind of safety net to fall back on. That safety net also comes for a piece of government, supported by private means, to ensure that everyone has universal social protection. I am also pleased that this resolution now states that the position paper developed by the DGD will be converted into a strategy paper. In this way, the CD&V Group is, of course, willing to support this resolution. Thank you very much to the initiators on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Party will, of course, also support this resolution because social protection is essential to build a decent and carefree life. 70% of humanity still does not enjoy a satisfactory level of social protection. This resolution rightly calls on the government to work on this, including through greater attention to social protection, including through Belgian development cooperation, and by working in bilateral relations with partner countries to ratify a number of important conventions, such as International Labour Organisation Convention 102 on the safeguarding of minimum social protection standards and by cooperating and supporting that social protection fund which will be managed by the International Labour Organisation. Despite the noble aims of that resolution, we expressed a number of reservations during the discussions in committee. We also want to warn that a social protection fund, which will be fed from above by a number of mainly wealthy countries, can never be an end in itself, but at most an additional means to enable the working population of the Global South to build itself a sound social protection from below, just as we have seen here in our country. Social security, the cathedral of the working population, has been built up from the bottom up and subsequently institutionalized by the government through 150 years of social emancipation. That process must also take place in the Global South. Social organisations, trade unions and the working class should therefore be supported in the fight for social emancipation. Above all, we must also enable the states of the Global South to develop structural and sustainable social security systems. However, we must not get stuck in that fund and pay attention to structural causes and inequalities. After all, if we really want to develop sustainable social protection, including in the Global South, we need to take into account, for example, fairer prices for raw materials from the South, debt forgiveness, the revision of unfair trade agreements and the neoliberal structural adjustment programmes of the International Monetary Fund. We must replace this and give the countries of the South unconditional, cheap loans so that they can also invest in social programmes and in further public services. We must also enable them to pursue their own economic policies, without imposing only on them the export of certain goods, a kind of monoculture often forced upon them by the World Trade Organisation and the IMF. We have to get rid of that, because if we do not change anything about it, a social protection fund will, unfortunately, also fall short. It is indeed an en-en-story, and that is why we will support the proposal. The fund is a good thing, but sustainable social protection requires structural interventions in unequal power relations and economic inequality. I refer to the debate on COVAX: donating vaccines is a good thing, but if we really want to help the Global South to achieve vaccine justice, the European Union must share that knowledge of the mRNA vaccine, which is actually public knowledge, with the countries of the South as soon as possible, so that they can also access the vaccines. That's what's needed. As I said at the beginning, we will of course support the motion for a resolution, because any concrete step towards more and better social protection will always receive and deserve our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are discussing a very important issue here today, universal social protection. The figures are very clear. Seven out of ten have no full social protection in this world and five out of ten have no social protection at all. For us as socialists, social protection is by no means a privilege, it is a human right. It is registered in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That is why we also have a responsibility to contribute to the achievement of that fundamental human right. There is also a second reason why everyone should invest in universal social protection, especially out of well-understood self-interest. Corona should have been a wake-up call in that area for everyone. International solidarity is the only way to defeat deadly diseases and pandemics. That is why we need to invest in health care, so that people are also protected from disease. Moreover, social protection is not a cost, but an investment with a very high return. If the corona crisis has shown one thing, it is that social protection has a stabilising effect on the economy because it helps to maintain household consumption in times of economic recession. It also enables households to save so that they can better cope with crisis situations such as illness or job losses. It encourages investment in education and health, which also improves labour productivity and employment rates. She also has proven multiplier effects on the local economy. That doesn't make people feel the need to migrate. She also ensures that deadly diseases can be controlled, making our own older population, which is most vulnerable, safer. In short, social protection clearly increases the resilience of a country, especially in the event of crises. It reduces inequality and is a lever for development. This is, of course, also one of the priority areas of development policy and, for the first time in Belgian development cooperation, we are working with a thematic social protection portfolio deployed in Central Africa, in Congo, Uganda and Rwanda. That is innovative, coherent and has a very clear focus. It is important to emphasise that a number of aspects will be focussed. In particular, it concerns the creation of decent work, productive employment, social protection for workers and the formalisation of informal work. The first and last aspects are important, as social protection goes hand in hand with decent work. The ILO's four pillars on decent work are therefore the reference framework for social protection. The resolution therefore calls on the partner countries in international cooperation to ratify ILO Convention 102 specifically for this reason, as it includes the nine classical branches of social security, as well as the minimum standards for claiming this protection. So we want to emphasise the path taken and the choices made by this government and ask that we continue to invest in projects that support social protection. A budget of EUR 50 million has already been made available. It is very important to continue along this path. Furthermore, the resolution calls for a financial mechanism, such as a global social protection fund, to be promoted as a country at international level in order to create the universal social protection system. A prominent role should also be included in the Global Partnership for Universal Social Protection. The ILO indicates that the cost of this is 6% of global GDP. That means that it is actually a matter of making a choice, it does not mean that this idea would be unrealistic or priceless. We want to stress that we do not want taxpayers in rich countries to pay indefinitely for social protection in poor countries. We see this financial support as a necessary first step to start a process that will gradually enable the low-income countries to finance social protection in their own countries. Countries that would receive support from such a fund should undertake to develop social protection levels in consultation with social partners and civil society, with whom plans will be drawn up. These plans would provide for a gradual extension of social protection, identifying the necessary sources of funding. The role of the international community is essential but limited in time. It should ensure financial support for the initial setting-up of the programmes. An increasing share of funding should be ensured by the mobilisation of local resources. That is why the resolution also lists a number of conditions. It is very important to emphasise that. First and foremost, the financial mechanism must contribute to strengthening local capacity, it must not undermine the responsibility of the partner countries concerned for achieving social protection for their people and it must also guarantee democratic ownership at all times. Secondly, the proper and transparent management of resources must be ensured, both at international level and at the level of programme implementation. Thirdly, we also advocate full participation of relevant and representative stakeholders at every level, including the social partners and civil society organisations. This resolution has the full support of Vooruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u116	Madam President, social protection is a fundamental right. It is a particularly important lever for protecting, developing and combating inequalities. One thing to remember is that 70 per cent of the world's population does not benefit fully. It's huge. With the crisis of the covid-19 and other crises that could come – environmental, climatic, geopolitical – this social protection is a major issue that I believe is important. The fact that it did not lead to even more disastrous repercussions in crises that can be experienced. For us, several points were important in this resolution, beyond the vision, the course and the importance of continuing to move this issue forward. First, today, several funds exist for social objectives and it is important to organise this social protection at multilateral level, with greater coordination between the various actors. The multilateral mechanism must be more effective: it must strengthen international cooperation, support structural change and ensure transparency in the resources allocated. We will fully support this resolution, even if there is still a long way to go. Finally, I would like to commend the actors of civil society for their long-standing claim and efforts to advance this fundamental right across borders. I have no doubt that they will continue to mobilize in this direction. Thank you to those who have taken the initiative of this text and to those who will continue to advance this great cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u117	This concludes the interventions, so the discussion is closed. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u118	Madam President, in principle, my team has informed you that I also wish to speak on this important text. I will be short given today's important agenda. Like my colleagues, I wanted to speak on this text. The health crisis has at least had the merit of stressing the importance of our social protection, which is even vital. This social protection covers our citizens against the risks and events that threaten their safety and health, whether it be sickness, pregnancy or old age, accidents at work, disability or the loss of a job. This social protection thus reduces social inequalities and enables everyone to live a life in conformity with human dignity by guaranteeing their economic, social and cultural rights, regardless of their economic status. In recent years, respect for these essential human rights has been put to the test, more than ever. All over the world, everyone has suffered the adverse effects of this health crisis, falling ill - whether physically or mentally - by losing a job, losing their resources - I am thinking in particular of the self-employed or the job students - by looming under the weight of work or by being confronted with an even more complicated combination of private and professional life. Of course, while it is true that during this crisis many citizens have had the chance to live in a state like ours, which provides for this precious relief buoy of social security, it is not normal for this protection to depend on chance. It is not normal for too many countries, especially the most disadvantaged countries, to find it difficult to ensure a minimum base of social guarantees for their fellow citizens. Where we are happy to be able to keep incomes, in any case some in the event of illness, others find themselves doubly punished: a first time when they fall ill, and a second time when they have to get poorer in order to be able to heal themselves or even survive. According to the results of the hearings, almost 4 billion human beings, or 53.1% of the world's population, live without any social protection. As a result, many children still have to work to help their parents, some women are forced to return to work immediately after delivery, or older people have to work for the rest of their lives without ever having been able to rest after a lifetime of hard work and sometimes even misery. On the other hand, it is important to recall that there are still considerable differences in the social coverage rate for different continents. The figures provided are very informative: only 17 per cent in Africa compared to 84 per cent in Europe or Central Asia. In addition, there are other differences between the groups that make up our society: women, young people, migrants, and disadvantaged workers. The objective of this motion for a resolution, which I welcome and which I fully share, is therefore the establishment of this Global Fund for Social Protection, in other words, the establishment of a financial mechanism that would ensure access to just social protection while at the same time being able to cope with the financial difficulties experienced by States. The right to social security is essential and not only concerns protection against extreme poverty. It must also be a lever to avoid turning into poverty at some point in time. Ultimately, the Fund is an obligation under international law, which rightly insists on the duty of rich countries to contribute to the realization of social rights in unfortunately poorer countries. I must, however, raise a little bit of a flat in this text - perfection does not exist, I am sorry. While the motion for a resolution is right in calling on the Government to promote the ratification of ILO Convention 102, our country has not yet fully ratified the whole of the same Convention. Let us therefore be ambitious for the social protection of others, but also for that of our fellow citizens! In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this flat, I, on behalf of my group, must tell you with enthusiasm that we will support this motion for a resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u119	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u120	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The reporter is Mrs Vanrobaeys. It shall refer to its written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because Mr Anseuw is ill and has to apologize today. He has observed the honours for our group in committee. We are in the plenary, so there is no point in doing the whole discussion of the committee about this. I shall confine myself to a few words which will not prejudice the fact that we will vote in favour of the draft. That'll take the tension away from me right away. We are voting in favour because it is a necessary draft law, even if it is late. I see March 10, 2022 on the calendar. The explanatory note to the text states that the previous scheme was terminated on 31 December 2021. This means that many associations and their employees have remained in the dark for a long time. It will also become a definitive arrangement after the previous temporary arrangement. The alternative is that uncertainty would continue to drag on. That's why we're glad it's here. We regret that again it took so long before the government could make a decision. In the actual scheme there was a double charge of 10%. One of them falls away. That, too, is absolutely a step forward, which we welcome. There is a question with the idea of working in hours and with an online application, Student@work. Even if that is a positive thing, which we support, we hope that the application will work properly and that it will deliver on the promise that it will indicate the possibilities in a user-friendly way. In short, we are therefore pleased that the arrangements for association work are in place. We are pleased that the double taxation is falling. We're glad she's finally here. However, I would like to add that we also hope that the tax element of the association work will be dealt with as soon as possible. But that will be work for the Finance Committee and not for the Social Affairs Committee. This would promote legal certainty for associations, whose operation is largely dependent on the statute and how to deal with association workers. So that gap will still have to be filled in. In any case, we will support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say is that the birth was long, very long, but, finally, it was not so painful. In any case, the end is going rather well since we have managed to reach a conclusion in committee. Remember the discussions on this law a year and a few months ago! It was much more complex and much more tense. Fortunately, in the interests of all those involved in the sectors targeted by the law, we have come to what we have regularly called "a balance" in committee. First of all, I would like to make it clear that for us, environmentalists, the fundamental principle remains the real contract of employment which allows real contributions, a real comprehensive social protection and that this type of employment must, of course, always be privileged. That said, that is not exactly what we are talking about. Today, we are talking about the activities closer to the hobby, the involvement in the socio-cultural and sports sector, the people who are engaged and who bring great social value to the project. For these people, some elements remained troubled and relatively unsuited to the needs of reality. After many discussions, hearings, contacts, consultations with the persons concerned, the National Labour Council and the sectors, a framework was finally set. We considered this framework to be balanced and relevant. In addition, we observe minimal protection in the event of an accident, for example, which was very important to us. In addition, we had an imperative, namely a framework that simplifies the situation, facilitates and is transparent so that people who use this device do not find themselves in situations without realizing that they do not respect the framework, the number of hours to be exceeded, etc. It was important for us that a future information technology tool would provide greater transparency for all beneficiaries of this framework. The minister reassured us on this issue in committee. On the other hand, one element that we felt was particularly important is the issue of cumulation. It is possible to cumulate with unemployment benefits. Let us think of a very concrete case, for example that of teachers, educators who finish their employment contract on 30 June. They may then take up activities during the summer but still receive unemployment benefits and do not have to make this painful choice. It is known that young workers and teachers who enter the labour market generally do so. All this, the fact that consultation takes place, that the framework is clear, that a tool allows for greater transparency, that a cumulation with unemployment benefits is possible, and above all, as my colleague has just said, that a tax question should be referred to the Finance Committee and that the minister responsible for it should be Mr. Van Peteghem takes over the tax issue, which has enabled us to reach an agreement. That is why our group will vote in favour of this bill. I am pleased, as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to move on to the Finance Committee, which I am sure will do just as relevant work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u124	Madam Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us provides a structural solution to this issue of community work. During the debate in committee, I referred to television series to talk about this saga, saying that we were in season 4 of this dossier. The first season was the rather controversial law of 2018. Season 2 was animated by the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the "associative work" part of this law and by a first restorative law for the sport sector. Season 3 was the extension to certain activities of the amateur arts sector and the sociocultural sector. These laws were transitional and incomplete in order to take account, in the end, of the essential observations of the Council of State on the one hand and the National Labour Council on the other. We were well aware of that. Season 4 is the one that brings us this bill with, finally, a structural solution. The future will tell if it's the end of the show. But you can reasonably think so. I would like to stress here that it is the social partners, in their opinions via the National Labour Council, who have asked the legislator and the government to find a solution through Article 17 of the Royal Decree ONSS of 1969 and to base this solution on labour law. This is fundamental in the reading of this dossier, and this is what is done in this text. Is this one perfect? We agreed not. The social partners agree on the essentials, and there has been a lot of convergence on the substance of the issue since the beginning (2018). However, there are nuances or differences on certain points, on certain provisions, on certain modalities of the proposed text. However, it should be reiterated that, in essence, this draft law provides legal certainty to the sector, and goes in the sense that the social partners want it to be based on labour law. We have discussed these points in the Social Affairs Committee. We are not going to repeat the debate here on notice periods or guaranteed wages. It was agreed that an evaluation of the scheme would be put in place to ensure that the occasional nature of the work performed justified exceptions to the rules in force for regular work. Furthermore, I would like to point out that since the 2005 law on the rights of volunteers, providers in the field of sport or culture are awaiting the establishment of a specific statute for the "grey zone" between, on the one hand, volunteering and, on the other hand, paid work. The text before us today finally brings this solution. Mr Minister, you have spoken of a balance, a balance on the whole, which is probably not perfect. I agree with your point of view. To seek the perfect balance, to seek the more-than-perfect balance, to seek the extremely perfect balance, or radically perfect, you never find any balance, you never find any solution to any problem. In this case, I believe that this mechanism, and the evolution of legislative work, lead us to be able to support this issue. I therefore confirm that the Socialist Group will obviously support the text. We will also remain vigilant about its application in real life. It is ultimately this later evaluation that will tell us whether or not there will be a season 5. But I want to hope that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u125	Madam President, Mr Delizée has just spoken about the fifth season of this law. I do believe that it is the filming of the book De laatkomer van Dimitri Verhulst. During the discussion of the previous law on association work, I tabled an amendment to delete the deadline of 31 December 2021. Unfortunately, that was voted down in this plenary. I did that, of course, to avoid situations like today's. When we discussed the temporary solution to the union work at the end of 2020, a final solution was envisaged. They were talking about'spring'. In the first half there would be a solution for the many thousands of association workers in the sports and socio-cultural sectors. We assumed, perhaps naive, that it was about spring 2021. It seems, however, that we have been mistaken for a year. After the many uncertainties and confusion that we created in early 2021 due to the change in the law on Christmas Eve and the publication on New Year's Eve, today is even more severe and worse. Now it is not literally on the eve of the expiry of the law, but months too late. There's been uncertainty on the field for months. A month ago, the Flemish sports federations and domes again called the alarm because of the lack of this law and the lasting uncertainty. Steering is forward-looking and guaranteeing stability. These sectors and the people working in them also have the right to know where they stand. So this legal amendment is too late again. Everything has to be introduced with retroactive effect. The Council of State, for the umpteenth time in its opinion, has stated that legislation does not, with retroactive effect, benefit legal certainty. Of course, we don't want to leave these people in the cold. It is important that the regulation finally arrives, so that we can conclude this regrettable period and not move on to a fifth season. The many people who work together in the thousands of sports clubs and associations must be able to count on our attention. They do fundamental work for our youth, our athletes and people active in sociocultural association life. They're the trainers of our children, the music teacher at the academy. It is about the monitors of the playgrounds and the accountant of the theatre association. They make a very valuable contribution to our community. Let us also express this appreciation in a correct arrangement, which lasts. Don't let us push them back in the direction of undeclared work. The Flemish interest is also satisfied that the double taxation or tax on association work is finally being abolished. That injustice was from the beginning a thorn in the eye. I am glad that the permanent resistance has finally been listened to. Despite the many extra time bought, the process of legislative work remains very difficult. Why could the opinion of the Data Protection Authority not be requested from the outset? Why did the Council of State and the Social Affairs Committee explicitly have to ask for this? It is also regrettable that the new app for the Dimona declaration is still missing. After today, an information campaign could finally start with all potential and effective users of the association work. However, we must add immediately that this does not work and that the Dimona declaration cannot yet be made. So later, in April or May 2022, we will have to indicate that we have been doing work since January 2022. The legislation will then be adopted. We still have months to wait for the report. So Belgian surrealism continues to reign. Hopefully we will finally be able to communicate with all the associations involved soon. We cannot make up for lost time, but let us not prolong it. Let that be my appeal to the vote on the union work. However, you had already understood. We will support the present law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u126	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken almost two years, since the ruling of the Constitutional Court, to find a lasting solution within the framework of the system of associative work introduced in 2018 by the Michel government. Many criticized this new working regime, which, without creating a new status, met specific needs for certain sectors. In other words, and we have had the opportunity to repeat it on several occasions, associative work responds to a series of realities on the ground. Indeed, this form of activity satisfies a societal need which could not meet the same conditions as volunteering but could not be considered as a classic job either. I would also like to point out that, in a very large majority of cases, this concerns workers who already have an attached occupational activity and for whom they have rights, obligations and remuneration. Some sectors, such as sport or culture, are rightly more demanding than others. In the sports community, for example, he may be a physical education teacher, or another worker from another sector who engages in a sports club for a few hours a week. In the socio-cultural sector, it is also very often teachers who give internships during school holidays to supplement their income. In other words, associative work is deeply rooted in our society. I am not going to trace the whole history of this dossier, but I am going to remind you that a temporary solution, on the basis of a proposal from my colleague Open Vld, whom we co-signed, was able to emerge after many discussions and long but useful work in committee. The law of 24 December 2020 was intended to provide only a one-year temporary solution for the sports sector, as the health crisis forced its subsequent expansion to the cultural sector, which was particularly in arrears. The route chosen today is Article 17 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, adopted in implementation of the Law on Social Security for Workers. It follows the opinion of the National Labour Council and has been the subject of wide consultation with the sectors. I will not, of course, review the content of the bill, which also called for the adjustment of certain rules with respect to labour law and social security. These are much needed adaptations or derogations, which are essential in order to be able to adapt to this particular form of professional activity at best. Of course, more favourable rules can be decided by collective labour agreement. If we vote on the legal basis today, it should be noted that the system actually entered into force on 1 January 2022. On the ground, it's a real relief. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the text before us establishes a suitable, operational and solid framework for all associations that use it, but also for all the people they employ. The MR Group will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u127	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us has come a long way, with many obstacles. Since the destruction of the so-called Jobs Act by the Constitutional Court in April 2020, a sustainable and alternative solution to the association work has been sought. This is necessary, because association workers bring people together, both in cities and in small villages. The union work is invaluable and irreplaceable. For example, it is about trainers and referees in amateur football, conductors in a youth choir or marching band, counselors of youth camps or school trips, people who give lectures or guides. Associations and their association workers deserve our support. I am therefore relieved and pleased that today we can discuss and approve the draft law, which mainly covers labour law aspects, and hopefully also unanimously. It is essential that association workers and associations are quickly clarified about the new regime, because they have had to wait long enough for the definitive regime. After two difficult years, also as a result of the corona crisis, we see that the union work can now be revived a bit. We welcome that. The helping hands of the association workers will therefore be more than welcome and more than necessary. The sustainable and clear regulation, which is before them today, will help them to organise themselves better. This also prevents associations from resorting to undeclared work; we do not want employees of associations to be paid in black. For this reason, the approval of the scheme is important. The present new scheme takes Article 17 of the Royal Decree of November 1969 on the RSZ as the basis. The 25-day scheme set out in that regulation is now being converted into a number of hours, a line of thought that I put forward in plenary as early as November 2020. In its opinion last summer, the NAR also put forward that article as a basis for new legislation. Minister, I am also pleased that you have taken up my suggestion. In any event, the new scheme should not impose a heavy administrative or financial burden on associations. In fact, they were already suffering very badly during the corona crisis and also work with limited resources and with a limited number of people in normal circumstances. The new regulation should be as simple as possible to use. It is therefore a good thing that the draft law provides for the use of an app. We know that from student work, with Student@Work. Now there is also such an app in which association workers can enter their hours worked and where they can easily distract how many hours of association work they can still do. We will not burden them with all kinds of social documents that they have to keep. In addition, a number of exceptions are provided for association workers to the normal labour law regime in the areas of disability, training and notice periods, among other things. In this way, we ensure that association work remains practically feasible and accessible to everyone. This is about people doing occasional work. So they don't really have to take their social protection out of the occasional work or hobby. Fortunately, they can also obtain their protection from the status they already have, for example as an employee or as a self-employed person. We found that not everyone is entirely happy with the proposed derogations in the field of labour law. The solution chosen is a balance and we support the present compromise. The trade unions, for example, expressed critically their concerns about the protection of union workers. I would like to point out that last summer the National Labour Council itself put forward the slopes of Article 17 in its opinion, albeit without going into some aspects of employment law. The knot had to be cut by the government itself and it has indeed struck a balance. Minister, I have already called on you, in committee, to keep in constant contact with the sector and with the social partners, together with the other two ministers responsible, so that, if something goes wrong or even a problem of a practical nature, you can intervene in good time. I also called for an evaluation of the scheme after a while, and I am pleased that you would like to respond to my question. Of course, this does not need to be done immediately; the regulation must be given time to prove itself on the ground, so that we can map out what is going well and, if necessary, what is not going well, and then we can adjust it if necessary. CD&V will certainly support the scheme. Fortunately, we have been able to bridge a year with a temporary arrangement. But now there has to be a final settlement. A sustainable alternative to the Jobs Act is indeed much needed for the survival of the association life, which, thanks to all the fine work of our association workers, contributes to a warm society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u128	Madam President, for two years we have been discussing a problem which is basically a matter for the regions. For two years now, we have been breaking our minds about this in the hemisphere. How much time has been devoted here to creating a feasible arrangement for the careful professionalisation of Flemish amateur sport, simply because the competent sports minister, Mr Weyts, does not want to take up his responsibility. Just because Flanders does not intend to support the Flemish sports associations properly. But don't worry, he's not alone. Other sports ministers, from other regions, too, leave to assume their responsibilities and strengthen their sports associations. I am thinking of the Walloon Ministers of Sport, Jean-Luc Crücke, and now Adrien Dolimont, and of the Brussels Minister of Sport, Pascal Smet. I can add a few more Ministers of Culture who abandon the amateur associations and pass their responsibilities on to the federal government, but I will spare you that. In short, so many ministers, so many posts, so little responsibility. And who's gonna fix it? Us. 'Cause what's going on? Because the regions fail to ensure that the associations and association workers receive additional resources, the federal government must resolve it with a new flexible statute. Apart from the 80 wage systems that we already have, always in favour of employers, we still do not find anything to give them a decent statute, but there is the tax favor regime of 10%. That's the vivaldilogic. Apparently, everyone in this hemisphere is okay with that. Well, we at the PVDA absolutely don't. On behalf of our group, I would like to emphasise clearly that our coaches, trainers, referees, conductors, directors deserve respect. They deserve appreciation and the same social protection as their colleagues on regular contracts. There won't be any right now. Now that the Vivaldi government has compressed the working week to four very long working days, from nine and a half to ten hours, we know what these people will do on the fifth day. They will be added to sports or amateur arts, but without building up corresponding social rights. For the union workers will not be entitled to a guaranteed wage, maternity allowance or paid holiday. In fact, today we are voting on a law that reduces their social rights instead of adding them to it. A newspaper headlined in October that "The PS is, according to our information, prepared to talk about a more favourable tax regime, provided that the advice of the social partners is followed." What did we miss here? That law will continue, and the social partners will not agree to it again. I've been on the phone with a lot of union people today. They won't forget this. They are also beginning to get a certain pattern. The opinion of the National Labour Council was reasonable and suggested opening the 25-day scheme to 300 hours on an annual basis. Converted, that's almost 40 working days. 15 working days were allowed. That seems reasonable to me, but the government decides 450 hours for the sports sector, 59 days, plus 34 days. In this regime working days of 3 hours are possible, so there are even 150 working days possible. That is 100 days a year working for the same employer, and not having the same social rights as the colleagues on a normal contract. Who would invent such a thing? That's fun with the social negotiators. You keep putting them against the wall. You give the trade union the message that they have to make agreements, but behind their backs the lobbyists of the employers' federation always get the last word. My point is obvious. The opinion of the National Labour Council has not been followed at all, not in the Minister's royal decree and not in this bill. The social partners did not agree on all points in this opinion. I mentioned all the guaranteed wages, maternity protection and paid holidays. This should have been a bill full of solutions on these issues, but it is not. After all, the government is not taking the side of the workers' organisations here, in contradiction with some European directives. That does not seem social to me, and it does not seem sensible. The government still limits a few other social rights. Firstly, the training and additional pay for evening, night and Sunday work are restricted. By way of an exception in collective bargaining legislation, the government ensures that trade unions will not be able to negotiate agreements on training or premiums for association work. This is contrary to the fundamental standards of the International Labour Organisation, but we are getting used to the fact that the Vivaldi Government is messing with collective bargaining legislation. Secondly, I have been particularly disturbed by the rules on accidents affecting association workers. I hope that there will not be many accidents, but the union workers simply do not qualify for the determination of an increased risk on the part of the employer. The explanation given by the Minister to us in committee is not enough. Association work is occasional according to him, but what's next? Is he gonna rule out occasional interim workers? The only relevant question is why the government deliberately does not want to encourage associations to be cautious with their association workers. Thirdly, with regard to guaranteed wages, the trade unions pointed to the possible unequal treatment of workers and servants. I told you, they asked the government to find a solution. So far, things have been going well, but the government's solution is to abolish the law completely. It is, moreover, very faint of the government to pass the solution on to the trade unions, who will only have to negotiate a collective agreement. Fourthly, no one is waiting for a shorter period of notice. The Minister indicated in committee that this arrangement is only a little worse than usual. I have a problem with that. The cancellation scheme is a little bit worse than usual. That's another step back, not forward. When it comes to the workers, it always gets worse. Fifthly, the draft law must also be judged, above all, on what is not in it. I have already spoken about guaranteed wages, but, as the trade unions have already pointed out, there are also problems in the scheme or the lack of regulations on, for example, annual holidays and maternity protection. In the latter case, the government simply intends to violate the European Pregnancy Directive. That's punishment, leaving the mothers in the cold like that. It was perfectly possible to include the comments on social rights and to offer solutions for guaranteed wages and annual leave, as the trade unions have asked. Instead, we are getting a draft law that cheersfully restricts a number of other social rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that is twice wrong. It's wrong to do what you do and it's wrong to do what you don't. This government has again not listened to the trade unions. This government has once again put aside a compromise of the social negotiators. This government has yet again found something to limit collective bargaining. When the social partners proposed to work on Article 17, this was to provide a framework guaranteeing the social rights of association workers. What we see here is the opposite. Some containments come straight from the last bad government. The PVDA cannot therefore support this part of a definitive solution to the work of association. I'll finish in working language to make this clear to you. The Regions provide a pool of money with pennies with which one goes to the association. Those are active substances. If these associations make it clear to the Regions that this is far too little, then they will not get more money and pay a decent wage to their employees. No, then the solution is to go to the federal Parliament where two years will take time to come up with a compromise that will always be the result of the common man on the street. So it's obvious. We will not support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u129	Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you another story. An association worker is extremely important, he is an indispensable factor in the leisure activities of millions of people. I will not go into the history of this design. It has been pointed out here a number of times that the work of association has already come a long way. An important step in this process was the last plenary session of 2020. At that time, our bill was adopted that temporarily regulated the union work after the destruction of the Jobs Act by the Constitutional Court. Minister, you may know that I am very happy with this draft law, which regulates the work of association through Article 17 of the Royal Decree on the social security of workers. This is done with retroactive effect, which has also been communicated to the various associations and associations. It was also looking forward to a proposal, because answers to several oral questions made it clear to me that a proposal based on the 25-day rule was being worked on. In this context, I have raised three main concerns. Firstly, the 25-day rule should be able to be converted into hours, whatever happened. Secondly, the administrative burden had to be limited for both the association and the association worker. Thirdly, the tax burden had to be reduced, preferably to the level of 10%, which is currently also the proposal. I understand that the draft has been submitted to the Chamber and that it will come to the Finance Committee, where it will be dealt with shortly. This will remove a great deal of uncertainty. After all, we must not underestimate the role of association workers. They are truly the beating heart of an association and indispensable for a quality sports training of many children and adults. I myself come from the sports sector and have been on the ground as a teacher with a lot of associations. I therefore know better than anyone that that certainty is needed. The same applies, of course, to the cultural sector, because the conductor of a local harmony is also in the front row to train children and adults. The social added value of the association worker is enormous. It's not just about coaching, it's about him or her having a lot of other skills. I am thinking of the pedagogical aspect, the communicative aspect and the social skills, not to mention the time they spend on teaching preparations and everything related to them. They should also be ready to give feedback to parents on the child's performance and attitude. Moreover, it is often necessary to take several additional training courses in order to carry out this important task. In short, we invest a lot of time and money so that everyone can get to work in leisure life. An association worker therefore deserves appreciation for that commitment. That is why this legislation, with social protection, is essential. We must not forget that this important task is often carried out after the day job. This always happens with a lot of passion and enthusiasm. Minister, we are still waiting for the proposal on taxation to be dealt with shortly, but you can be sure that we will support this proposal with great conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u130	Mr Minister, at last there is certainty for the many trainers, referees, field carers and directors of youth choirs who are constantly making a great commitment every week, several times a week or during holidays. This way our children can live their lives during their free time. In this sense, the union workers are the glue of society. Then why does this specific regulation come into force? This commitment is also subject to quality requirements. These people must receive numerous training courses to ensure the quality of training or lessons. I am certainly not going to repeat the whole history here, but it is true that Sport Flanders asked for a better framework of amateur sports. I have heard here that there was quite a bit of criticism of that arrangement. The previous federal government's response was a solution that went far beyond just framing amateur sports. In particular, this scheme has completely undermined the level playing field not only for the sport sectors but also for many other sectors. It was therefore not surprising that it was eventually destroyed by the Constitutional Court. However, we and the social partners had often warned against this. After the temporary arrangement with which we have sought a solution for those who take up such an engagement, there is now finally a definitive statute. For us, it is important that these people receive proper compensation, but also that they can count on protection, including against accidents, which is very important. This scheme was proposed on the basis of a slope that was put forward by the social partners, namely Article 17 of the RSZ Act, a slope that our group has always defended. I think it is important that these people should be able to take up their commitment without this bringing too much administration on the part of the associations. There are certainly professional clubs that appeal to association workers, but there are also numerous amateur clubs whose board also consists of volunteers, people who have the best interests with those clubs and they run them, in addition to their work. They must be able to do so in their spare time without too much fuss. Our group supports this bill, but we look forward to the app that will be operational at the beginning of April, which will allow both the association worker and the clubs to monitor their situation. We are also looking forward to the fiscal aspect of this arrangement. Minister, we are, of course, confident that you will monitor this closely with the various stakeholders on the ground and that you will evaluate it in good time where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u131	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Vivaldi parties, I fear that the vote on this project will not put an end to the real saga that the Michel government set up as an association. I remember that at the time some of you were there; others have arrived since then. But the socialists, the environmentalists, the trade unions, the representatives of the middle classes had denounced this new working regime. For our part, we also warned against some of its perverse effects and its legal frailties. As you recalled, this regime was appealed to the Constitutional Court, which overturned it by a decision of 23 April 2020, but this decision maintained the effect of the law overturned until 31 December 2021. In the meantime, this new regime has proved to be useful in a number of sectors such as sports. Colleagues, it took you almost 20 months to develop an alternative plan and to have it adopted. It's too much! It's way too much! You have thus created a terrible legal insecurity and a considerable overload of work, of disorder also within the associations that use this working regime. The article17@work platform is still not in place. The returns will be made retroactively at the end of the quarter and, pending this, employers will obviously have to draw up a formal contract and keep in-house a statement of benefits on the days and hours worked. I could have understood, or at least understood, that the delay and the time you took was due to your willingness to build a solution that would build consensus with the social partners and among all of them. Despite the time lost, you have not been able to reach consensus among all, nor have you fully respected the opinion of the NTC. That's unfortunate! Even more serious, despite the more than 18 months, you had to consult the Council of State as a matter of urgency, which deprived you of a more in-depth opinion on the incompatibility of your solution with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. This is all the more regrettable - and I must go back to this point here in plenary - that the Council of State has serious reservations on this point in its urgent opinions. He points out and I quote him because I think it is important that this be in the report: "For the unequal treatment resulting from certain elements of the scheme under consideration, such as the choice to apply a different ceiling of 300 and 450 hours, the constitutional rules of equality and non-discrimination do not preclude a difference in treatment between categories of persons provided that they are based on an objective criterion and that they are reasonably justified. The existence of such justification must be assessed taking into account the purpose and effects of the measure and the nature of the principles in question. The principle of equality is violated when it is established that there is no reasonable proportionality between the means employed and the intended purpose. Within a short period of time to deliver its opinion, the Legislation Section shall refrain from further examining the above-mentioned provisions of the draft as regards the justification for the difference in treatment." Not only are these elements important, but they are also added to the questions raised by the Council of State on the risk of this scheme being qualified as State aid under European law, which would imply its illegality because it was not notified to the European Commission. We are therefore concerned, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that, not content with slow reaction, you are not coming with a solution that is particularly fragile in legal terms, which could lead to a new annulment by the Constitutional Court, which would put all the beneficiaries of this regime back into terrible embarrassment. You are aware, like me, that some are already clearly considering attacking this text before the Constitutional Court, which would only prolong this far too long saga. The legal fragility, the total lack of legal solidity of your system, even though it has already been annulled by the Constitutional Court, is totally incomprehensible. For these reasons, we will abstain from your project. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u132	Madam President, it has already been said that this dossier has come a long way. There has been talk of different seasons, there has been talk of a saga. It is true that it has taken a long time and I would even like to admit to Mr De Roover and Mrs Fonck that we are late with this. Better late than never, we could say, but we're late with it. The advantage is that we have had a very thorough debate and I would like to thank all colleagues from both the majority and the opposition for the thoroughness of the debate. It is also nice that we have a majority that is not limited to the majority of governments. I would like to say a few practical things. Firstly, as one of the speakers has just mentioned, the tax draft was submitted by the Minister of Finance, so I think this can be dealt with quickly. Secondly, with regard to the application, I assume, Mr De Roover, that the RSZ is, in general, fairly familiar with and does good with these applications. We will, of course, have to evaluate that. It may be one of the first things we need to evaluate in the coming months to make sure that it works properly. Indeed, it is not ideal that the two applications could not be operational on 1 January 2022. However, I can tell you that from the moment the RSZ had taken note of the main lines of action, he started developing the applications and that the representatives of the domes of sports and socio-cultural associations were also informed about them. The RSZ will indeed support and assist the associations concerned so that the declarations can be made correctly. Of course, the application to be able to check the hours will also be well explained and supported. Following the adoption of this draft law, the RSZ will immediately update all information on it to all relevant administrations. So I have confidence in that, but indeed, in a few months' time we will be able to evaluate whether that works properly. Mrs Lanjri, you have said that it is important to evaluate in good time whether this bill does what it promises. I have already replied at the committee meeting that we must evaluate, but not too quickly. Several years have been discussed and I think it is important now to create a horizon with some stability and security. I do not like to take the word historical in the mouth, which would also be exaggerated for this draft, but what we are doing is a bit historical. After many discussions, we are creating a framework for union work which is well anchored in general social security and labour law schemes, i.e. social protection in the broad sense, without imposing any obligations, as they would weigh too heavily on what are essentially occasional and additional activities. Mr Colebunders, there is an honourable disagreement with your approach on the obligations to be imposed. I believe that your approach would not make the scheme workable in relation to the objective we have in mind, in particular essentially occasional and additional activities in associations and in the service of associations, for people who have a predominantly different activity as a professional activity or main activity. For example, we make exceptions to the increased risk. You have come back to that again, but I will not reopen the debate. There are also certain, but not so important exceptions to, for example, the dismissal scheme. I really think this is justified. In fact, we assume that we will ensure that associations will ensure that the work of associations is properly carried out within the framework provided for, that they do not get away with it, let alone that they do undeclared work. It remains an important challenge. Madam President, the Chamber has succeeded in reconciling the positions and views that were really different at the outset, in keeping with the debate held by the social partners. From the different views of the social partners, we have had to make our own choices, but I think that the very broad consultation is very important for a sector that needs to be able to support in our society on a very broad basis. This must also ensure that we can make this work as a stable framework in the coming years. So I am very happy, I can say relieved, that we have come this far. If the tax draft is accepted, with the 10% tax, we have completed an episode of debate. Then it comes down to making it work in practice. The RSZ wants to guarantee that. But I'm also willing to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u133	Minister, it is an historic day, and I fully agree with it, although you are not going to take it or say it. The advice you have received is not from the PVDA, but from the National Labour Council, the Council of State and the trade unions. Everyone's against it, and what are you doing? You just don't go along with that story. It's historic. This is a decline, not progress. You put a Band-Aid on something that bleeds heavily. Mr. Secretary, I don't know who scares you. Are you afraid of the liberals in your own vivaldi government? Or are you afraid of the regions? Or are you afraid of the lobbyists of the sports federations? One thing is clear, this is not social. All those volunteers, who work day in, day out, are not thought of. Punt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u134	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u135	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2492.3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2492/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u137	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Steven Matheï, Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteurs are Ms Verhelst and Mr Laaouej. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u139	Mr Minister, we have debated the draft law before us for two long readings in committee. I will not repeat what I said there. It was also of a legal and technical nature. I would like to explain once again why we are abstaining from this bill. It is specifically about the chapter related to the MOTEMs, the multidisciplinary research teams. I would also like to extend my hand to you at the end of my speech. I thought, in your replies to my reasonably critical remarks, that you were open to a debate on further reforms. You strengthen the MOTEMs, the multidisciplinary investigation teams, in the context of the fight against tax fraud. That is a good thing in itself and we absolutely support it. We have always been in favour of involving as many different services as possible in dealing with this serious organised fraud. However, it must also be said that the problem is not what your draft law says. That is even commendable in terms of objective. However, it is mainly about what is not in it. I am talking about the lack of a clear framework of procedures and powers for the problems that we will inevitably see through the tension that exists between the duty of fiscal cooperation and criminal secrecy. That may sound very legal and technical in some way. It's really just about the rules of the game that apply when tax, in this case mixed investigation teams, a taxable person visits in the context of an investigation and obtain files and information. It is important that all these matters are clearly regulated. At the moment, those rules are not very clear. We see from time to time in practice, it is often about the BBI, that there are files in which people go too far. It is important not only for the taxpayer that we do something about this, but also for your services and for the effectiveness of investigations. We are already seeing a tendency in which taxpayers increasingly rely on their right to remain silent, even at the administrative stage of a procedure, resulting in files being stuck. We also see more and more investigations leading to proceedings before the courts, where the tax authorities often fail, because they have not followed all the rules correctly. I can only refer here to a recent ruling from the Antwerp Court two weeks ago, in which the BBI gets a hell of a torch from the judge. The judge doesn't shy away from harsh words and talks about inappropriate administration. Just that BBI will be seconded to the multidisciplinary investigation teams. It's not the first time the BBI's been in the papers in a negative light for the last few months. As head of the tax administration, you should ensure good governance in your services and that your services respect the principles of good governance. All this strengthens my conviction about the proposal I made in committee. I would like to repeat this very clearly: let us think together about a more general reform of the way in which such tax and criminal investigations are conducted, with clear rules for all concerned. This will not only improve legal certainty and the legal protection of taxpayers who believe it to be beneficial, but will also enhance the effectiveness of your investigations. It will then become more difficult to question a robust study carried out on the basis of good legislation before the courts, as is often the case at present. Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment. In the committee, you said that you were not opposed to such a reflection. I hope you still feel that way. It would also be useful to involve the Minister of Justice, because the College of Attorneys General also plays an important role in this. I decide. Not only provide additional weapons for your officials in the fight against organised fraud, but also provide clear rules for all involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u140	Madam President, I wanted to say a few words about this text because, in the Committee on Finance, we are told by experts that, in the fight against fraud, we really have an interesting and relatively well-stocked legislative arsenal, but that, on the other hand, we lack the resources. However, Chapter 4 of this text provides a legal framework that makes more cooperation possible and facilitates the work of MOTEMS. Obviously, the means to combat tax fraud are being improved. The means of action are being improved by improving collaboration and giving judicial police powers to certain tax officers. Empowering the fight against fraud is a political choice, and I would like to stress that. This is a vision that we share with the minister. I therefore welcome the Minister's initiative. Because it is necessary to recall the extent to which tax fraud deprives the State of the resources it should be able to rely on. Everyone must be able to contribute according to their possibilities and it is the legitimacy of the system that depends on the contribution of each according to their abilities. To ensure that everyone can contribute according to their abilities, MOTEMS are a tool to fight fraud. It is these multidisciplinary teams that will bring together, as appropriate, people with particular skills, members of the administration, members of the public prosecutor's office, but also with a whole series of tags at the level of the organization and the rights of taxpayers. It is also important to stress this. Therefore, at least 25 people from the administration and spread throughout Belgium will have the status of judicial police officer. They are people who are already in the administration, who already have specific skills. We're talking about the ISI. This is a logic that we adhere to. Going for administrative skills and relying on the quality of people in the administration to provide the means to fight fraud further is a logic we agree with. I stress that this measure makes it possible to channel resources towards organised crime and tax fraud. The amount of EUR 200 million was quoted in the Finance Committee. To fight fraud, in fact, as I said before, we have a to do lis". These are the recommendations made by the commissions of inquiry and the Panama commission in 2009 and 2016. Consequently, the allocation of policy instruments, as is done here, to the administration, was already included in the 2009 recommendations. These were recommendations 8 and 9. I salute the perseverance of all actors. I would also like to point out that this government is implementing the recommendations of the anti-tax evasion commissions. Things are moving on, but we're not done, we're definitely not done. As I said yesterday, we must continue to work on the recommendations of the various committees, but in any case we are moving forward, and these are the reasons why our group will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u141	Madam President, I won't be very long. I will note one of the measures brought about by this bill and, in particular, the outcome of a fight over thirty years old. This fight was aimed, since it was now done, at granting the inspectors of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes the status of judicial police officer. That status existed. It was abolished in 1986. In the unanimous opinion of those who examined and observed the fight against financial crime, it represented a step backwards at the time, which unfortunately proved itself in the handling of a number of major financial crime and tax fraud cases in particular. This measure was feared by those involved in these traffickings which were detrimental to the Treasury, public finances, social security and also to our social cohesion. They feared this position as a judicial police officer because they had in front of them officials who could accompany police officers to carry out investigations with sagacity, and with very sharp capacities to analyse the financial circuits and the tax treatment that had to be allowed there. When this position of judicial police officer was withdrawn, it was only then for the tax administration to be able to access the repressive files after the creation of these files, subject to the authorization of the Attorney General. That is to say the heaviness of the procedure! It was also to deprive the judicial police, the gendarmerie at the time, of a valuable expertise. In the meantime, some central services have been set up, such as the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime (OECDO). Since then, OECDFO has been dismantled. We are constantly calling for OECDFO to be strengthened. OECDFO worked by secondment of a number of tax officials and others who were then, as a result of the secondment, in the position of judicial police officer. This was certainly an improvement, but it was not enough compared to what existed before 1986. This is a real step forward which will certainly allow us to fight with equal arms, if I may say so, against criminals who are already ahead of us. Indeed, the case of financial crime or tax evasion comes at a time when the facts have already been perpetrated. It is already generally a posteriori that our administrative and judicial authorities intervene, but lacking operational capacity. Now we are strengthening it, even if it is certainly not perfect. There is still a lot of work to be done. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the alarm shouted by prosecutors general and by police prosecutors who clearly indicate to us that they lack the means and that they are currently unable to combat financial crime effectively. The risk is that files will not be opened or there will be rankings without follow-up. This is unacceptable, because it is tantamount to saying that, in our State, a form of impunity is taking place with regard to behaviour that is particularly destructive for our social model and, ultimately, for our rule of law. That is why, Mr Minister, this project is moving in the right direction, but we must also be able to convince your colleagues in the Justice and the Interior to give the police and prosecutors the necessary and sufficient resources to combat this scourge of financial crime, and tax fraud in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to zoom in on Chapter 5 in the discussion of this draft law with the obligation of electronic means of payment in commercial matters, which has been dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. In fact, the measure has two objectives. The first objective is to ensure that consumers are always able to pay electronically. The second objective is to combat tax fraud. As far as the first objective is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there is something to be said that we must offer consumers the greatest possible comfort in order to be able to pay in different ways. As far as the second objective is concerned, we must, of course, fight hard against tax fraud. There is no way that entrepreneurs can slip through the loopholes of the network. But you must not link the obligation to use electronic means of payment to the fight against tax fraud. I have the impression that this is done in the same way as in the case of tax controls, which means that we have to prove that we are not a fraudster. Some of my fellow Members even looked specifically at the catering sector, which I believe is endorsed. It was stated that this is a less-cash measure, but it was added that we must nevertheless strive for a cashless society. It is clear from that statement that this is only an intermediate step and that cash payments will soon or soon be completely abolished. But shouldn't we assume the good in people? A colleague of Open Vld admitted to looking at the chapter with mixed feelings and also believed that cash should always be possible. I have that feeling, too, ladies and gentlemen, with the difference that I am consistent in sayings and voting behaviour. The obligation had been announced for a very long time. Many words have already been devoted to this in numerous debates in our committee and a lot of ink has already flowed. It is argued in the draft law, based on the figures of 2019, that most payments are made with cash resources, in particular 58%. However, it ignores the evolution that we then experienced with the outbreak of the corona crisis, in which a large number of small companies made electronic means of payment available on a massive scale. Many entrepreneurs have even temporarily refused cash. Then I think it would be much better to grow the number of electronic payments organically. We still have something like freedom of enterprise. If the customers in a shop cannot pay electronically and they stay away from it, then that is the consumer's choice and that is also the loss of the entrepreneur. If the entrepreneurs see that this keeps the customers away, they can draw their own conclusions. I think they should have that freedom. Are entrepreneurs of bad will? I don't think so. This has also been demonstrated by an earlier hearing in the committee on banking services in the covid crisis. The Neutral Syndicate of Self-employed, the NSZ, made a concrete proposal there. According to the syndicate the entrepreneurs are not of bad will, they only see the forest through the trees no longer and perceive electronic payment methods as too expensive. It also suggested that a comparison tool be developed by the FPS Economy such as for energy and telecommunications, whereby entrepreneurs can compare the average cost of transactions based on payments and evaluate whether this is interesting for their business. Today, the home banker is very often quite expensive and there are many other possibilities. Later on I interviewed Mr Dermagne about what I thought was a good idea. We must try to remove all thresholds for entrepreneurs. But constructive ideas from the opposition are never good. I note that you are imposing an obligation on entrepreneurs today, but you are not supporting them. You just leave them to their fate. Moreover, the obligation also applies to small amounts, i.e. one cost of a newspaper or two coffees, and to market stallers and businesses with very small margins. That is why I would have preferred to see a threshold, such as an exemption of up to EUR 50. The big fraud isn't in the very small payments. The definition of who is subject to the obligation to provide electronic payments includes associations. This would de facto mean that youth associations or sports clubs should continue to provide electronic payment systems. Then the measure has nothing to do with tax fraud, but it amounts to a pestilence measure. How do you explain to the many associations and volunteers that Flanders counts that they will also have to offer electronic payments in the future? How could you have solved that? You could have avoided such problems perfectly by giving economic activity the same interpretation as in Article 4 (1) of the VAT Code. In order to exempt the associations, I had tabled an amendment to that effect in committee, but you voted against it. I am putting this amendment again today, because associations should not be fundamentally covered by the law. Electronic payments should be a customer service for the entrepreneur and a tool for less cash processing. The reasoning why the relevant chapter was inserted into the text is the world upside down. To sum up, I do not agree with the reasons and framework of the draft law. In my view, we should choose the path of evolution as regards electronic payments. Eventually, these transactions will increase by themselves; we were able to determine that during the corona crisis. Your approach is merely one of the fight against fraud. Mind you, I am certainly in favour of tackling fraud, but this should not be done in the proposed way, all the more so because, according to the strict definition used, associations also fall within the scope of the legislative text. Finally, you rejected all my proposals. We therefore have no choice but to reject the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u143	Madam President, I will be brief too. I will just come back to one of the points raised by my colleague Laaouej. It is the establishment of MOTEMS, i.e. mixed teams that give the status of judicial police officer to tax officers and make them available to the prosecution. It is therefore the tax authorities that are at the disposal of the public prosecutor and not the police at the disposal of the tax authorities. It's obviously an important shade. The important thing is to strike right and MOTEM is to work on the whole aspect of tax fraud, which is obviously a good thing, since the fight against tax fraud is one of our government's priorities. It was already in the past, but this bill will strengthen the tools. Of course, it must be framed and organized. From the moment we give the title of judicial police officer to tax officers, we need two things. First of all, that they devote themselves to the objective of combating fraud and not to all those, in the vast majority of citizens, who respect their obligations. There is also a need to organize the training of these officers because both the police and the prosecutor's office are trained in a whole series of practices, as far as tax officers are not a priori trained. But I know that the minister replied in committee that everything is now in place to ensure proper training of officers. It is therefore a new tool, or a tool put on the agenda, that will help us in the fight against major tax fraud. So, of course, for that reason and for all the other interesting reasons contained in the bill, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u144	Thank you also for your brevity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u145	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important bill with various elements, such as the fraud teams and the elimination of the tax unemployment trap. However, I would first like to address another issue, which Mr Dierick raised at the end of the previous legislative period in the form of a legislative proposal, and which we have also recalled in this legislative period, namely the compulsory provision of electronic means of payment. That is, of course, part of making electronic payments possible. We have a historic deficit in this respect in relation to our neighbouring countries, but there has been some change in this in recent years because of the lack of contact, of course under the influence of corona. This increased from 16 % before corona to 57.7 % now. Moreover, the Belgians also have less cash in their pockets. CD&V therefore wants people to always have the opportunity to pay electronically, firstly because it is easy, it works fast and efficiently, but also because it is safer for both the customer and the trader. Cash, of course, remains possible. Cash is a legal means of payment and it remains possible everywhere, but it will also be possible, for example, to make transfers via a payment terminal and to pay electronically with certain bank apps. At the moment there is also an increased investment deduction for the investments made by traders. We are therefore very pleased that the Minister for Finance has included these issues in this draft law. This will certainly stimulate the electronic payment, which we think is a good thing, both for the customer and the trader. A second aspect of the draft law is the approach to the tax unemployment trap. It occurs when it becomes unattractive to get out of unemployment, because it is taxed away with extra earnings. That is being addressed now, which is a good thing. This is a question of social justice, and it also makes taxation much more reasonable. This measure also fits perfectly with the objectives of the Flemish labour market policy pursued by the Flemish Government and competent Minister Crevits. We discussed this in committee, also in connection with the second reading. The calculations showed that 150 000 ordinary people will benefit from this measure. That is a very good thing. A very small percentage may suffer a disadvantage, but the Minister said in committee that this is still being considered. The last item I would like to mention concerns the multidisciplinary research teams, the MOTEMs. This is an important step in the fight against fraud. That did not just come out of the sky, because, as we all know, that is an important part of the coalition agreement. The Minister of Finance has already taken various actions on this subject, not haphazardly but thoroughly and with a holistic approach. I am thinking of reinstalling, after five years, a structural approach in cooperation with the other ministers through the re-establishment of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. This bill gives certain tax officials the status of a judicial police officer. This makes it possible to tackle large fraud cases in a decisive manner. Police detectives and tax inspectors will be able to work together on these big fraud files. That is, of course, a very good thing. We will therefore fully support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u146	Madam President, this is a draft with various provisions. We know that in such a text it is possible to support some chapters and others less, for which we are mixed. We support the one aimed at combating serious tax fraud, although the minister's action in this area is rather minimalist. Twenty-five tax officers obtain the status of judicial police officer, which is particularly low. I must mention the Network for Tax Justice, which brings together several associations and unions, and which recently sent a letter to the Minister of Finance complaining about their dissatisfaction with the fight against tax fraud being pursued by the latter and his colleagues. Another chapter obliges traders to provide consumers with an electronic means of payment. This is obviously very good for the consumer, but I am surprised that the unacceptable policy of banks is being put on the shoulders of traders. What are they doing? On the one hand, they close their ticket agencies and distributors - which obviously increases the need for an electronic means of payment in shops. On the other hand, these same banks charge heavy fees to traders who use electronic terminals. In short, they make a profit on both sides. That's why a banker has two pockets on his jacket: to fill them on both sides. And the government does nothing! He does nothing to prevent the closures of agencies and distributors and nothing to prevent traders from sometimes being forced to sell certain products at a loss - this is the case of one of my friends who is a newspaper merchant - if a payment is made by Bancontact. The margin on the product is so low that it is lower than the costs that banks count for this electronic payment. What is the government doing? Nothing, except forcing the traders to install a Bancontact device, saying, "For the fee, you'll manage with the banks." This taxation is obviously unacceptable if there is no system that would put the financial burden on banks instead of traders. We also have a serious problem with the chapter on the taxation of unemployment benefits. The guidance is good since the purpose of this chapter is to allow a taxpayer not to lose the full tax reduction on unemployment benefits if his annual income also includes certain wage income. But there is a serious collateral effect that is hidden in the complexity of the Income Tax Code. If we scratch a bit, we realize that some unemployed workers who do not currently pay taxes will have to pay with this bill. Those with an allowance of between 16,690 euros and 19,190 euros per year do not pay tax at present. With this bill, they're going to pay tax. For example, a single worker who has a net wage of €1,850 per month – less than the median wage – who loses his job will receive a maximum of €18,871 for the first 12 months. With the current legislation, he does not pay taxes, but with this bill he will pay €1,063 in tax, while this now unemployed worker already suffers a significant loss of gross income compared to the salary he had. The unemployment benefit is obviously not equal to the wage we had before losing our job. The minister's attitude was particularly shocking in this case. I explained the problem in committee and asked the minister if he would confirm that he would send a tax bill to these taxpayers through this bill. He answered me generalities to drown the fish but he did not answer my specific questions, even after I insisted. I always wonder why he didn't want to answer. I have two hypotheses: either the minister was unaware of the negative impact on some taxpayers – it would be rather surreal to ignore the effects of his own bill! - either the minister knew that his text was going to have a negative impact on some taxpayers, but he stubbornly concealed that negative effect. There, it's just as incredible, as well as being dishonest. In fact, we still have to trace the history. The explanatory memorandum mentions the positive impact but never the negative impact for some taxpayers. In the impact assessment, since you know that there is a somewhat formal obligation to attach an impact assessment to the bill, the impact will be positive. There too, the negative impact is not mentioned. During the debate at first reading, as I said, I asked clear questions but I never had an answer from the minister. For me it was never before seen, even though I have already seen a lot of amazing things in this Parliament. Even when the press talks about the issue, it questions the minister, and the minister still refuses to respond to the journalists. In short, to date I still do not know what hypothesis is right, incompetence or dishonesty. I still don't know. Finally, we were lucky enough to have a second reading of the bill. Finally, two or three weeks later, the minister finally replied and was obliged to admit the problem which he refused to speak about at first reading and on which the press had questioned him without answering. What did he do? He tried to minimize the problem, justify his bill, and made a small concession. What are the elements of his answer? First of all, minimization. He says that very few taxpayers are involved. The tax administration has done the calculation. There are only 627 taxpayers who would be affected. "Only 627" is a way of looking at things. It is true that the other positive provision concerns tens of thousands of taxpayers indeed. But it is not because there are fewer taxpayers affected by the negative aspect than people affected by the positive aspect that this discrimination is justified for the 627 taxpayers concerned. All the more so since the 627 in question will suffer harm that is more important than the benefit that others will have. For the others, the advantage will be a maximum of 376 euros while the losers will lose, for some, more than 1,000 euros. When you're unemployed, you can imagine that 1,000 euros is not negligible. Moreover, if it is true that only 627 people are involved, this will not have a very significant impact on the budget. The problem can then be solved without major impact. The minister also put forward the argument of the employment trap and said that "the proposed reform is part of the government's desire to pursue a policy of activation. It is intended to avoid new pitfalls in employment, in particular situations where a person who has been in employment for the whole taxable period has a net benefit after tax which is less than or barely greater than that of a person who has been unemployed for a period of time during the taxable period." At the same level of income, therefore, an unemployed person would not pay tax, whereas a worker would have to pay tax. Does this mean that it is acceptable for those who do not pay tax tomorrow with this project? Let us not forget, however, that they are often workers who have just lost their jobs and are already suffering a heavy loss of income because they have moved from a wage to an unemployment benefit. In addition to this loss of income, we want to put in a tax bill that they didn't have so far. The problem of the employment trap is not the fact that an unemployed worker does not pay taxes at a certain level of income. The problem is, on the one hand, that wages should be increased and, on the other hand, that it is not normal for workers with low incomes to be subject to tax. The problem of the tax, it must be settled on the side of the worker and not settled from the bottom by imposing the unemployed person so that both pay tax. What was also quite shocking in committee was that, given the negative impact reported, I asked the committee to seek the views of the trade unions. It was a unanimous refusal of all members of the commission. All of them refused to ask the unions for advice. However, I believe that, for all measures concerning workers, they should be systematically asked to do so. On the part of the right-wing members, I was not so surprised. Mr Piedboeuf refuses, I'm not surprised. But, on the part of the left-wing deputies, it still surprised me. At second reading, however, the minister admitted to taking the problem into account. I will quote from the report to show the ambiguity of the matter: "The Deputy Prime Minister is nevertheless prepared to examine further the 627 cases in which the new rules may be less favourable than the old ones for tax-isolated taxpayers (...) and, if necessary, to develop a technically feasible solution in accordance with the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on this matter in the context of a future law on various tax provisions." The minister acknowledged the problem and said that he would look into the issue, but what would he do exactly and under what conditions? It's kind of blurry. Given this blurry and the minister committing himself to reviewing the flaws of his project, I have proposed quite logically to remove Chapter 3 of the project and that the minister come back with a corrected version. This is quite logical, especially since there is no urgency since the entry into force is only planned for fiscal year 2023. So we have all the time to do it. I have therefore tabled an amendment in committee to withdraw Chapter 3 of the draft. When it is corrected, the minister will come and we will vote knowingly. Here too, all the Members of the committee, apart from me, voted against this amendment. Since I am convinced that they have since been able to reflect on the inadequacy of their vote against my amendment in committee, I am resubmitting this amendment to withdraw Chapter 3. Indeed, if we keep this chapter somewhere, it is the minister who tells us: "There is a ball in my text but vote it anyway, trust me, and I may come back with a correction that may be satisfactory!" You will understand that this does not correspond to the conditions of both serious and honest parliamentary work. I hope that you will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u147	I wanted to mention a personal fact, but I left Mr. Van Hees continue, because we're used to it. As he always tells beautiful stories, he puts me in his novels every time by saying in my place what I think or what I'm going to say! He types next door every time. I liked stories and tales when I was a child, but I don't like the tales of Mr. Van Hees. To amuse the gallery, it takes every time what I can say or think. He can go on if he likes it, but I wanted to say that the words he lends me are always next to the plate!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u148	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important draft law because it once again puts into practice a fundamentally important policy choice of this majority. This is because the fight against tax fraud is a top priority. However, I would like to remind colleagues that, in the last few months, we have all strongly advocated strong measures to support families and businesses that suffered from the corona crisis. Over the last few months and weeks, we have almost Chamberwide advocated strong re-launch measures to relaunch our economy, also in the interests of the purchasing power of our families, the growth and health of our businesses. Today, Parliament has called for strong measures to control the currently exploding energy bill of families and businesses. To achieve all this, of course, every euro cent to which the state treasury is entitled is welcome. The families and the companies we are all talking about here, and we believe that their energy bill should remain affordable, are the main victims of the fact that there is a small group that does not contribute, a group that is either trying to turn tax legislation into its hand or trying to escape the solidarity that everyone else shows. That is the importance of this bill. There are other colleagues from the majority who have explained very well what exactly the technicality of that MOTEM, that multidisciplinary research service, is. The most important thing is to take another fundamental step forward. The cooperation between the IRS, the police and the Justice Department is one of the three-stage rockets in the fight against fraud. Step two, colleagues of the PTB, is more transparency. There too, we have already taken fundamental steps. Step three is the abolition of tax regularisation, on which we have already taken a decision. So, Minister, you have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for this draft law. Finally, colleagues of the Flemish Interest, the measure has long been considered to oblige companies and traders to also offer forms of digital means of payment to their customers. You can say a lot about that, but that is still a matter of basic customer friendliness in 2022? Of course, Minister, you also have the full support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u149	Madam Chair, I have heard a lot of good things and we share many of the objectives of this bill. We were able to point out from the outset that the means to combat fraud were essential. Prosecutors and police officers reiterated the importance of having significant resources. A few days ago, we were still questioning not only the Minister of the Interior, but also the Minister of Justice to respond to this request of the judicial police to obtain additional means to combat organized crime, mafia and tax fraud. This request remained unanswered. We were unable to obtain in the Committee of the Interior the hearing of the prosecutor of La Serna and the boss of the PJ to know the extent of the means. The majority of us understand that these resources are necessary, but we expect them to become effective through specific measures based on significant budgets. I will add a word on electronic payment terminals, which we discussed in the Committee on the Economy. I have just heard that it is absolutely necessary to be in a state of modernity. It is not a question of saying that we don't give a shit about the fight against fraud, but of reminding ourselves that it is rather a question of practicality. The first question that this measure inspires is whether it does not amount to opening the door to a total disappearance of the cash. We are concerned about this, because we have the impression that this is a first step in this direction. Not only is it not transparent, but also precarised, weakened and older audiences cannot, at this stage, manipulate the digital tool for a payment. The second point is, of course, the cost of these measures for a whole series of independents. I know you're going to say that there are banking applications on GSM etc., but we know that most independent traders will have Bancontact terminals that are extremely prohibitive, especially in the case of small transactions or independent traders that have few transactions to do. The third point that we highlighted at this Committee on the Economy is the fact that associations, in a number of activities, are also covered by this electronic payment obligation. So we already know the administrative burden and the constraints that will be faced by the voluntary sector, which, I would remind you, renders enormous services – we have seen it in times of pandemics, we have seen it in times of flooding, and we can see it now in times of war –. It is therefore important to be able to show a sign of support for this voluntary sector and we believe that imposing an electronic payment method is disproportionate to the objective pursued by these associations. For these reasons, we will abstain from this project, because it seems to us that with this measure we are going a step too far. Not in the fight against fraud, of course, but simply in the burden it can represent and in the spirit of the line to which we seem to be pushed, namely the disappearance of cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u150	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for their support for what is going on today. There were a number of questions from several Members. Mr Donné, you were concerned about the legal framework and what should and should not be done during the investigation. This is covered by the regulations within the una-via regime. If the criminal procedure is chosen, the law of silence shall apply. If the administrative route is chosen, the obligation to cooperate will of course apply. You also referred to an individual file. I cannot, of course, go into that in more detail. However, I do not go along with your argument, in which you generalised one judgment for the entire operation of my administration. Moreover, the cooperation protocols and the ID card will clearly determine how and when the officials will act under the statute of the judicial police officer and thus under the authority of the public prosecutor. The measure responds to the demand to strengthen the anti-fraud system. I am pleased to hear that you support that question. Mr Van Lommel, your concern is justified. However, that is also why there is always a choice to pay either cash or by electronic means. This is also stated in the communication from the European Commission, which states that "euro banknotes and coins must be accepted as legal tender by the creditor at their full nominal value when there is a payment obligation and can release the debtor from his payment obligation'. Cash will therefore always be accepted and must always be accepted. However, I repeat that the customer has the free choice to effectively opt for electronic payment. Mr Piedboeuf, officials within the MOTEM teams will act under the authority of the public prosecutor. As already mentioned in the committee, there will of course be provision for the necessary training so that everyone is aware of it. These are mainly training courses in criminal law and procedures. I have another comment on what Mr Van Hees said. Mr Van Hees, I have heard your intervention and your concerns. In my view, I have also communicated sufficiently clearly in committee that we would seek a solution to this problem. It is therefore logical that everything that is before us today should be approved with that express commitment, in particular in order to find a solution. Mrs Matz, as far as your concern is concerned, in my reply to Mr Van Lommel's question, I have said that cash payments will always be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u151	Madam President, I thank the minister for his answer, but it is not. Finally, he told us: "I will correct my text, but I still put it to the vote." No, I don't! If he corrects his text, he withdraws the chapter - so he votes for our amendment - and he corrects it, and then he returns with the corrected work. It is not a way of working to give us a flawed text and to have it voted with the promise that, perhaps, it will come with a correction. It's incomprehensible! I have not had an answer in committee and, obviously, I do not have one in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u152	Mr Minister, I referred to the ruling on the BBI, but that is not, of course, a first judgment, because otherwise I would not have cited it as an example. I wanted to illustrate that a trend is emerging. You bring the una forward as a solution to the possible conflict between the administrative and judicial phases. Anyone who knows and is familiar with the una-by-procedure knows that it does not solve the possible problems between criminal and administrative proceedings at all. That is why I have asked for a general reform, in which the una-via regime can be embedded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u153	Minister, the concern about the disappearance of cash is not so much based on what the draft law is about, but is based on the statements made by colleagues in committee. They said it's not just about going to a less cash society, it's about going to a cashless society. If that is the intention, then I say no quite clearly. It is said that it is a free choice of the consumer, but it must also be a free choice of the entrepreneur which means of payment he or she wishes to offer. One ignores the idea that there are low-value products that are opposed to small margins. People just ignore that. Why, by definition, should a newspaper dealer be obliged to make a newspaper pay electronically? Why should every market staller be obliged to make electronic means of payment available? I don't think that's right. As far as my concerns about the associations are concerned, there has not been a single answer. There has been no response to address these concerns, because, strictly according to the letter of the articles in the draft law, associations will in future also be obliged to offer electronic means of payment. What does this have to do with customer friendliness and the fight against fraud? Again, I say no very clearly. That can and should not be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u154	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u155	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2472/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2472/9) The bill has 20 clauses. The draft law has 20 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u156	• Marco Van Hees (2472/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-10-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip167x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. Given the length of the sitting note, it is desirable, for technical reasons, that we should interrupt about ten minutes. So I'll meet you at 7:30. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 10, 2022, at 7.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 10 March 2022 at 7.30 p.m.
