ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that Members who have tabled one question should be given two and a half minutes' speaking time and that Members who have tabled several questions should be given five minutes' speaking time. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u2	Madam Secretary, we have had many exchanges of views on the war in Ukraine. We can't call it conflict or situation anymore, it's a real war. Developments in the field are taking place at a rapid pace. I would therefore like to ask you, first of all, whether you can explain to us the recent military developments and whether you can explain the position and initiatives of the Belgian Government in the military field. I would also like to have heard how cooperation with the EU is going, and certainly with NATO. I have also asked you a question about our commitment in Romania, where there are currently a small 300 Belgian soldiers with material. They stand ready to protect our borders and carry out a training mission in cooperation with France. I would like to ask you if you could explain what is happening there at the moment. What are the duties of our military on the ground? What are the rules of engagement for our mission? Can you give me the composition? Can you tell us how long we plan to stay there? Is there going to be a rotational system for this mission? I also asked you a question about the machine guns of the federal police for Ukraine. Defence has already supplied much material to Ukraine, namely ammunition, weapons, rocket launchers, protective equipment and fuel. We have now learned that the federal police have also supplied or would like to do the necessary equipment. Where are we in that delivery? What's the status? Is that equipment on the scene yet? How do you respond to the concerns of the federal police regarding the supply of machine guns, in particular with regard to the strategic stock? Does that, in your view, constitute a risk to our national security in the event of any attacks or other events on our territory? The next point is a reflection rather than a question. Isn't it distressing that at the moment we are not able to supply sufficient equipment ourselves? In the meantime, we have placed an additional order without having to touch both our own strategic stocks and those of the federal police? What are you going to do in addition to the initiatives already taken to recover all that equipment for Defence? Will you pay due attention to this in your investment plan? All questions relating to Ukraine were included in this topical and urgent debate. In this context, it is also important to ask what will happen to our defence budget. We have heard from the Prime Minister that decisions in a number of neighbouring countries take into account the great dependence of our American and NATO counterparts on the defence budget. You proposed an additional investment of EUR 1 billion, in addition to the EUR 10 billion in investment by 2030. You are making a catch-up, but it is a limited catch-up. At present, we have a proposed budget of 1.54 % by 2030. Are you considering capturing the defence budget at 2% of GDP, following Germany's example? This is a slope followed by a few neighbouring countries. Can you give us a ruling on the future plans in this area? Finally, can you explain the shift of NATO strategy from deterrence to defence? What does that mean for Belgium in the future and how do you prepare for it? Does the current explosive security environment change your vision of the armed drones, which are not currently under consideration? How do you see the Prime Minister's comments on more European defence? How does this take shape and what role do you see Belgium play in this? How will European defence relate to NATO?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday we had a debate in the Committee on External Relations, which has already provided a lot of answers, particularly on the NATO summit and the European Union summit. I will therefore focus on the specific points of defence, avoiding repeating questions that have already been asked. The first point concerns the support that Defence can provide to Ukraine and its people. Europe is now facing an influx of refugees. The numbers are constantly changing, but up to five million people are expected in the coming days and weeks. In these circumstances, Belgium will obviously have to take its fair share in the reception. Our country is probably not prepared to welcome so many people today. Therefore, Minister, Defence could have an important and useful role in managing this new crisis. How could Defence do that? Is this an option currently being considered? With regard to housing, the capacity will be quickly exceeded, if not already, and the municipalities are now overburdened to support the federal government. Could Defence therefore make host infrastructure available? For how many people? For how long? Today, thousands of people are embarking on Europe's roads. Would it be possible for Defence to provide logistical support, particularly in transport, to help reach our country or other countries from Ukraine's borders? Another of the measures announced by the Belgian State is the reception and treatment of war wounded. You announced in early March that 150 hospital beds for war-wounded in Ukraine would be available, 25 of which would be taken over by the military hospital in Neder-Over-Heembeek. However, the Conference of Academic Hospitals sent you a letter complaining about the distribution that is proposed. She pleads to concentrate these wounded as much as possible on the military hospital and to redispatch to other hospitals only in case of saturation, with a series of very interesting arguments in support. Minister, how many Ukrainian wounded have arrived at our house – if there are any? Have any of the wounded ever been distributed to other European Union countries? What response did you provide to the Conference? Do you join his analysis of the situation? Would it be possible to release a sufficient number of beds in Neder-Over-Heembeek to centralize this reception? Do civilian and military hospitals today have the capacity to deal with the consequences of chemical, bacteriological and/or nuclear warfare? Do they have sufficient expertise? The second point I want to focus on is the participation of Belgian soldiers or former soldiers in combat. In the press, we learned that two soldiers had left the Belgian army in order to join the international legion set up by Ukraine to defend its country from the Russian invasion. One had resigned before his departure, the other had not, and this one is, if I understood correctly, considered a deserter. Minister, are these the only two cases identified? Have you known any other similar stories since then? What risks do these deserters face when and if they return, both in terms of their hierarchy and in terms of the judiciary? Definitive desertion is a criminal offence. Do you know whether these soldiers left their uniforms in Belgium or not? Is there any risk to Belgium that deserters or not will be recruited into the Ukrainian international legion, including the risk that Belgium will be considered by Russia as a belligerent party to the conflict? Has Defence ever had to deal with similar desertion cases and, if so, in what context? What measures have been put in place, both within and outside Defence, to prevent this from happening again? Finally, I come to the reaction of Defence and NATO. It was decided last week to strengthen NATO's presence at its eastern borders. At Belgian level, an increase of EUR 1 billion in the defence budget for the next three years has been foreseen, in order to strengthen Belgium's response capacity. I had not asked any specific questions on this subject, although I have a lot in mind. But I understand that excellent colleagues, including Mr Verduyckt, are going to ask about this. I will be very attentive to the answers you will give to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u4	Madam Minister, recently there was a letter from the university hospitals asking for as many war victims as possible from Ukraine to be taken into the Military Hospital, given its expertise, security guarantees and the fact that regular hospitals are still catching up due to the covid crisis. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? How many beds are available in the Military Hospital? Is it true that there's only a little over 30? A number of beds would also have been taken by the Brugmann Hospital as a rehabilitation bed. How many are there, exactly? Does the agreement concluded at the time provide for these beds to be released in the event of emergency and emergency? What's that all about? Is it true that there is now a new 5,000 m2 field hospital in Beverlo? That could be manned by 200 people on medical staff. However, there are only 70 people available. Is that right? Does that also mean that it can now run at only one third of the capacity? Is it already usable? When will it be able to run at full capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u5	Madam Minister, today is a scary time and we are in a very precarious situation. I can recommend you to rehearse the 1964 Ronald Reagan speech he wasn't president at the time, even though many think that "A Time for Choosing," with which he supported Barry Goldwater as candidate senator from California. He was then a well-known actor and after years of defending the Democrats, he supported the Republicans. That speech is about the Cold War, about the conflict between the United States and Russia. He argued that the United States had never been attacked, because they were strong, and that it is only by standing firm that they are not attacked. The West needs more Ronald Reagans and needs to make more clear choices. The West is under attack. This is not about a regional conflict. It's about an invasion of Russia in a prowestern country. I hope you're aware of what's really going on. It is not just a failure diverse in the outer edge of the European continent at so many thousands of kilometres from Brussels. It is about confrontation, like during the Cold War, between the West on the one hand and autocracy on the other, with autocrat like Putin on the other. I would like to repeat the message of Ronald Reagan here: it is only by making a strong statement that we will not be attacked. Europe has become too weak and naive in terms of energy dependence, food security, defence expenditure and resilience. We have made terrible decisions on refugee policy, among other things. If we're weak, autocrats and dictators will attack us. There is no doubt about that, because democracy in the world is not doing so well. We live in a very difficult world. It's another time for choosing, as Ronald Reagan clearly said. We need to brace ourselves again and stand up. You're convinced of that, too. Our party can broadly support the Belgian Government's position on NATO and Ukraine. Except we're a long way from here. Much more arms supplies are needed to Ukraine. There is much more money needed for defence. EUR 1 billion is not enough. The increase in defence expenditure to 1.54% of GDP is insufficient. We absolutely need to evolve to 2%. That is not a fetish or a rug, but it will become a requirement in NATO's new strategic vision. At the NATO summit in Madrid, there may even be at least 2% in the text. All requirements will be tightened. More will be expected, and as the host nation of military command, with NATO headquarters on our territory, we must take an exemplary role. We shouldn't stick at the bottom of the ranking, as a bad student. We need to play an exemplary role and invest more in our defence. I therefore call on you to finally make that 2% investment in Defence and give all the support to the Ukrainians. Tomorrow, Ukrainian President Zelenski will address us. I've checked this out, and everything's pretty much done. I understand that the first secretary of the embassy is already here to deal with the final cases with the protocol service. I hope that we will all be able to be present and then there will be a speech or reaction from the government showing that there will be additional arms supplies and sanctions and that we will offer even more support. After all, it is not a matter of detail or of a regional conflict, as was made clear in the seventh day. I didn't know what I heard. It's an invasion. The free west is attacked by an autocrat from the Kremlin. Anyone who's ever made a mistake about that autocrat should be hitting a mea culpa by now. After all, it was predicted, it was coming, already in 2014, and many years before. When will we supply additional weapons to Ukraine? When will there be additional support for sanctions against Russia? When will we make 2% investments in Defense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u6	Mr President, I will try not to be redundant in relation to my colleagues' questions on the same subject. Madam Minister, regarding the reception of the injured Ukrainians at the Military Hospital, the Conference of Academic Hospitals of Belgium has repeatedly proposed to you to release the Military Hospital – useful in particular to accommodate the wounded and the non-injured who would require specialized treatment. The humanitarian tragedy currently taking place in Ukraine generates thousands of wounded and burned war that could happen in our country. It reminds us of the great interest of having in Belgium a crisis hospital with a supra-regional and complementary vocation to civilian hospitals which are applicants, with a capacity to increase significantly in the event of a crisis. Minister, what about the request? Can the Military Hospital free space for the reception of wounded from Ukraine? Is crisis management made up of hospital management professionals including Defence possible? What about the reconstruction of a crisis hospital? The other part relates to the recent NATO Summit last Thursday in Brussels, where it was decided to double in the short term the presence of the armed forces in Eastern Europe in response to the Russian aggression in Ukraine. In the medium term, the military presence is expected to become even larger. Although our Defence has already sent military personnel to Romania, I imagine that Belgium will still have to contribute to NATO's planned military reinforcement, which may motivate some to join the ranks of Defence as well as demotivate others to commit themselves. Madam Minister, what will be the Belgian involvement in the increase in military numbers in Eastern Europe? Is our Defence ready to increase its strength in the field? Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, has the number of candidates to join the Defence increased or decreased?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u7	Mr President, a great deal has already been said about this terrible conflict. I also note that everyone draws their own conclusions. I am also working in this House on the subject of energy, and in the meantime everyone agrees that energy independence is very important. In that debate, therefore, it became clear that we want to become independent of Russian gas. In the security debate, of course, there is a whole debate about the defence budget and the importance of our military alliance with NATO. I partly agree with the increase in the budget. I think it's a fetish to think that just more money will solve things. If we compare the budgets of the European armies with those of Russia, we will see that an increase in the budget may not solve the problem. What is also very important is the discussion about our NATO alliance. It is very clear and important that the alliance is here today. However, I am concerned about Biden's statements in Poland last week when he talked about a regime change. I don't think this pronunciation was a slip of the tongue. I believe it was a statement that indicates what the United States is about. We must therefore realise that in this way we are still far from any form of de-escalation. For me, this also proves once again that it is important to have a strong European pillar in NATO as the conflict is taking place today on our continent. I have already said that we are not in this conflict in the same way as the United States, which suffers much less from the energy crisis, the refugees and the nuclear threat. I fear that, however horrible the idea may be, at some point we will have to talk or negotiate with the autocrat Putin. When I listen to Mr Zelenski, I hear in his speeches that there is a certain willingness not to give up his country for a new Cold War. So we'll see how it evolves further. I follow the idea that democracy in the world is not going well. However, it must be very clear that we have no interest in a long, destructive war like this. I had put a few questions to the Minister about the concrete consequences of this conflict for our country. Firstly, an extra EUR 1 billion was announced at the NATO summit last week. How am I supposed to read that, Madam Secretary? Is that extra money? Is that an accelerated commitment of money already foreseen? Where's this going now? What do you think are the priorities if we have to use that extra EUR 1 billion? I would like to have more explanation. The second question concerns the 300 military forces we are deploying in Romania. Can you explain the rotation, the plans and the resources allocated to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u8	Minister, on 17 March, a large part of this House adopted an extremely strong resolution condemning the Russian aggression in Ukraine. In a structural way and well before this conflict on the European continent, you had taken concrete initiatives at the human, material and budgetary levels in order to put Defence back in working order, after years without a clear vision, in the absence of a search for European synergy and, above all, because it was marked by clear cuts. According to your STAR plan, the increase in the defence budget must reach 1.54% of GDP by 2030. It is obviously necessary to draw lessons from the past, bearing in mind that decisions still need to be taken. How are we going to make optimal use of the additional resources in relation to our real needs? To what end and according to what synergy? These are questions that you have asked yourself. Doing more is good; doing better is even better! Faced with this unacceptable military aggression, which causes more civilian deaths and refugees every day, we obviously need to take additional measures without falling into some fetishism, including that of the figure. I knew that when I was minister of the budget in the Walloon Region: we had to save so much, without worrying about the purpose of it. For some, linearity was needed everywhere. Of course, that's not how a department is run, if you want to do it with common sense. This is how the government decided to release an additional EUR 1 billion in order to further improve the responsiveness and operational effectiveness of our army. Madam Minister, can you give us an update on the Belgian military engagement in NATO, both in Estonia and Romania, but also in the European Union, as part of Ukraine's aggression? What about the material support provided to it by our country, both humanitarian and military? From a human and material point of view, but also from a budgetary point of view, what are your main lines of action for the coming months, following the NATO European Summit, and at a time when the European Union has finally adopted a strategic compass?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u9	Madam Minister, in response to Russian aggression against Ukraine, NATO confirmed at the end of the Brussels Summit that the eastern borders of the alliance would be strengthened. It would be a doubling of our battle groups in Eastern Europe. In addition to the troops already stationed in, for example, the Baltic countries and Poland, there would be four additional troops in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. The long-term strategy of the Alliance is aimed at a structural strengthening of NATO presence in Eastern Europe. We may be going to a permanent placement of troops in those countries, I dare say. NATO would also send more aircraft, rocket systems and ships and invest in cyber security. NATO countries would also provide more financial and humanitarian support for Ukraine and further increase its military contribution to Ukraine. For example, it would be about protection against chemical, biological and/or nuclear weapons. What would the military cost for the alliance of a permanent deployment of NATO combat groups in Eastern Europe be? Do you have any idea of the budget and the costs for NATO, and more specifically for our country, which will, among other things, finance humanitarian aid? What about our country's contribution to strengthening our eastern borders? What would the cost to the Defense Department be?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u10	Mr President, the answer will be a long one. On the first and recent developments, the positions and initiatives of the Belgian Government, the European Union and NATO on the conflict in Ukraine, I can give you the following. The attack by Russian President Putin on Ukraine has made it clear that the values on which European security is based no longer guarantee the peaceful resolution of conflicts. The Russian attitude was therefore condemned worldwide. Belgium supports that condemnation and also supports Ukraine's right to defend its sovereignty and the integrity of its territory. The European Union will provide further political, financial, material and humanitarian support to Ukraine and has also imposed sanctions on Russia and those supporting the war. The European Peace Facility plays an important role in facilitating that support from the different Member States. Defence also supports Ukraine through that mechanism, both with weapons and ammunition and with humanitarian aid. President Putin's threats have brought NATO allies closer together. In the short term, NATO and its partners have taken the necessary measures to strengthen the deterrent attitude towards Russia and to ensure the security of the territory of the alliance. The message to President Putin is clear. NATO is not an involved party in the war, but an attack on one of the allies will be seen as an attack on all. In order to demonstrate NATO's defensive capacity, additional troops have been deployed on the eastern flank. On 24 February, the Supreme Allied Commander in Europe (SACEUR) requested and obtained permission to activate the graduated response plans leading to the activation of the Land component of NATO's Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF) the following day. On 26 February, the French "fer de lance" battalion was activated. The Belgian country contribution to the VJTF concerns an squadron composed of the battalion 1/3 Lanciers, the 4th battalion logistics and the 23rd medical battalion, which is deployed at the French battalion in Romania. This battalion is formed from the French 27th batallion the Chasseurs Alpins and is part of the French-German brigade. The battalion's mission is to be present on NATO's flanks as a deterrent until an enhanced Vigilance Activities detachment is installed and operational. As a result, the duration of the Belgian detachment's deployment is not yet definitively fixed, but is estimated to be a few months. The detachment must also be ready to move on to the defence of NATO territory if necessary. In a first phase four liaison officers left for Istres on 1 March to join the French battalion. These were the first Belgian elements to arrive in Constanta on 3 March. In a second phase, some of the equipment was deployed by road to arrive on site on 5 March after a trip of more than 2,500 kilometres in winter conditions. At the same time, 25 members of the advance party were set up by plane. The majority of the Belgian troops flew in on 8 March, while the remaining part of the equipment was transported by road and arrived on 9 March. The deployment of the National Support Element will take place later upon France's decision to open its international logistical support element. At present, the Belgian detachment is fully installed and integrated into the French battalion. The battalion is under operational control of NATO. With regard to our presence in Estonia, Belgium has deployed a group of 74 personnel to carry out and support the enhanced Air Policy Mission in the airspace over the Baltic States. Also with regard to NATO's planned military reinforcement on the eastern flank of its territory, the VJTF battalion currently deployed in Romania will, in the coming months, be replaced by other troops provided by the Allies, in order to be able to be kept in reserve and, if necessary, ready to perform other tasks. With the means deployed on the east flank and other means available within NATO, SACEUR believes that it has sufficient means to ensure the desired deterrence in the medium term. For Belgium, this means that no further contribution to NATO is needed at this time. A future support of the battle group is one of the possible options. Any future operational commitment shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers in any case in a specific dossier. No cost estimate has yet been made for the possible permanent deployment of NATO fighters in Eastern Europe, as no decision has yet been taken in this direction. At present, a more permanent support capacity in the form of pilots and depots is under discussion. No amounts have yet been declared for financial and humanitarian support to NATO in general nor for Belgium in particular. As regards actions to combat the escalation of the conflict, according to your questions supporting requests for feedback from recent EU and NATO summits, as I have already said and repeated since the beginning of the crisis, the Belgian federal government has always opted for a position of mediation, negotiation and de-escalation. These three modes of action remain preferable to any escalation action. This position was also defended at the last NATO summit. Belgium supports all the decisions taken on this occasion by the Member States. The image of unity between the allies was central during the summit. Several positions have been taken. The call for an immediate end to the war and for a complete withdrawal, an affirmed position against the Russian propaganda war, a position for possible new sanctions and a position calling for negotiation emerged. Support for Ukraine is being provided in bilateral form, which seems to be the best way to avoid escalation in the conflict today. The nations agreed to study the establishment of red lines and to react firmly to Russia's overtaken them. Some recent changes in the security environment will be incorporated into NATO's new strategic concept. The issue of China's position in the ongoing conflict was also addressed, including its call for mediation, but also its lack of condemnation of Russia's invasion. It was asked to commit itself to the principles of the international order, such as sovereignty and territorial integrity. In April, a new meeting will be held to discuss more concrete actions to be undertaken in the context of the economic or humanitarian support of NATO member countries. The European Union, for its part, described its political and strategic vision in the field of security and defence in the strategic compass just adopted by the European Council on 24 March. The European Union has its own common security and defence policy (CSDP), which is part of its common foreign and security policy. In this context, good cooperation and consultation are always sought with all our NATO allies. As regards the delivery of Defence to Ukraine, the authorities expressed their gratitude for the support provided. They continue to call for the supply of arms and humanitarian aid. Each application will be analysed and answered by the Department of Defense. As far as arms supplies are concerned, no details will be given in this committee in view of the open nature of this debate. The necessary explanation has been given several times behind closed doors, within the Committee for the Succession of Foreign Shipments, and will soon be further explained in the Army Purchases and Sales Commission, which is scheduled for 20 April. Neither can the DOD comment on the federal police's strategic stash. The equipment made available will be the subject of an application for reimbursement through the European Peace Facility. Part of the armament has already been re-purchased. Let me turn now to questions about the additional resources allocated to Defence by the end of the legislature in the context of current events. The additional funds of EUR 1 billion granted by the government allow the Defence Department to increase employability in the short term, and they are mainly operational resources. The priorities are the increase in stock munitions and available capacity. The remaining resources allow Defence to purchase infrastructure, combat equipment, CIS and cyber specific needs in the domains, such as power supplies, optical means and additional security for the network and communication systems. This government budget boost is intended to strengthen our level of responsiveness and commitment. It was also important to improve quickly the operating conditions of our department. These additional resources represent a significant increase to the substantial resources of nearly one billion already committed since the beginning of this parliamentary term, excluding STAR. The coalition agreement states that the government will examine how to set out a growth path to re-focused our defence effort towards the European non-nuclear NATO alliance by 2030. Therefore, we should not reflect on other countries. If the average of European partners were to rise, the government would consider what steps could be taken. In any case, it is not intended to anchor certain expenditure in the Constitution. In order to keep defence expenditure out of the budget, the principle is that the European Commission must approve it, which is not there today. With regard to the management of the refugee crisis in Belgium, you know that the Defence supports the relevant federal and federated authorities in a coordinated effort. As was the case with the covid crisis and the floods of 2021, Defence is actively involved in the consultation with all levels of power, in order to optimize the contribution requested. The Defence Staff reviews requests for support to allocate available capabilities as well as those from the Strategic Reserve. Given the current environment, operational commitments within and outside the country, as well as the increased condition of Defence capabilities, the available support capabilities are limited. The analysis of the provision of military infrastructure has been carried out regularly and in detail with Fedasil and the Red Cross for several months. In this context, Defence is already making a significant contribution to military infrastructure and is continuing, for example, the effort to increase the capacity of the open site in Glons. Defence also supports B-FAST, as well as the reception of the wounded and the large burns. This brings me to the questions concerning the role of the military hospital in the context of the current crisis. The military hospital is not a general hospital, but a capacity with, on the one hand, a number of specific military services such as, for example, the medical selection of recruits and, on the other hand, a number of services accessible to civilian patients, such as the burn centre or the hyperbaric chamber. In the context of the reception of Ukrainian war victims, the DOD works closely with the FPS Public Health and the federal health inspectors. The capabilities of the Military Hospital are accurately outlined and the role of the Military Hospital will be limited to those capacities for which the quality of care provision is guaranteed. Specifically, it concerns the recording of potentially badly burned victims. Quality care is available in other hospitals for other victims. The Military Hospital currently has 25 beds for burning patients, consisting of 7 high-care beds and 18 medium-care beds. The occupation of the beds of the burn center evolves over time. The Military Hospital doesn't have trauma beds outside the burn center. Until 28 March, no applications for admission for an injured person from Ukraine were made to the military hospital. At the request of the Public Health FPS and in the interests of coordination and better traceability of patients, the military hospital will ensure the registration and stabilization of Ukrainian patients should they arrive in Belgium. Possible transport between an airport in Belgium and the military hospital will be carried out by the Defence. Of the 150 beds offered by Belgium, 30 of which are intensive care beds, half could be occupied, within the military hospital, by Ukrainian patients who have been burned. At national level, patient regulation would be organised, where appropriate, by the Public Health FPS. The opinions of the Council of the University Hospitals of Belgium ignore the current reality in the Military Hospital. The Military Hospital can't provide any other treatments than those I mentioned earlier. The necessary hospital departments are lacking for this purpose. The Brugmann University Hospital uses part of the infrastructure of the Military Hospital. The cooperation is progressing smoothly. The department that runs the Brugmann University Nursing Centre in the buildings of the Military Hospital is responsible for important concerns for a part of the Belgian population. The military hospital shall provide, in the context of emergency medical interventions, a mobile emergency and resuscitation service capable of responding to incidents or disasters involving a risk of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear contamination. As regards the specific role of the future medical hub in the event of a crisis, it is envisaged that there will be a crisis-preparedness and disaster response cell, as well as various multi-purpose spaces that can be used depending on the type of incident. The study of this project will be carried out through a consultancy mission which began on 14 March. The results of this study are expected by the end of the year. Let me turn to the questions that relate to the soldiers who left Defence to go to Ukraine. Currently, the Defence is aware of two cases of military personnel who have left the Defence to travel to Ukrainian territory. The first case is that of a soldier who was already in Poland when he informed his chief of corps of his plan to join the Ukrainian international legion. This member is currently subject to a resignation procedure as the period of illegal absence and desertion has been exceeded since 28 March. The second case is a member who requested and obtained the termination of his appointment on 12 March. His application was made from Belgian territory. However, he reportedly stopped in Poland where he would work for an NGO. Apart from these two cases, the Defence is not currently aware of other Belgian soldiers who have expressed their intention to leave Ukraine. From a disciplinary point of view, putting oneself at the service of the armed forces of a foreign nation constitutes a violation of the duties of loyalty and fidelity imposed on the Belgian military, in particular through the oath which they took. Such an action constitutes a disciplinary offence liable to be punished. Therefore, in accordance with existing legislation, military personnel may not be absent from service without authorization or justification. Since the member cannot obtain any leave of absence in any form or temporary withdrawal of employment for the purpose of fighting for the benefit of the foreign armed forces, the member concerned will, upon becoming aware of his departure, be placed in an illegal absence. After a period of 21 days, he is deemed deserter and his appointment is terminated ex officio. Desertion and insubordination are criminal offences that can be prosecuted. On the basis of the information in our possession, the soldiers concerned have left their uniforms in Belgium. In accordance with international law, in particular the Geneva Conventions of 1949, the fact that Belgian military deserters or resignations have become members of the Ukrainian armed forces does not render Belgium belligerent in this conflict between Ukraine and Russia. The Defence is not aware of similar cases in the past. There is no legal framework allowing the Belgian military to go to fight in other armed forces. In the internal directives of 24 February 2022 and 3 March 2022, the Chief of Defence made a special appeal to the staff not to be led by his emotions and rhetoric. He recalled that participation in combat as a military could have very serious consequences. The member of the Reserve Force is subject to the same duties of loyalty and fidelity as well as to the same provisions which apply to the member of the Reserve Force. He cannot therefore join Ukraine as a volunteer. It will suffer the same consequences as the member of the active cadre, including disciplinary and statutory measures. With regard to recruitment within the department in the current context, since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, there has indeed been a slight increase in enrolment. However, the effect is too small to conclude that the geopolitical situation has an important influence on these inscriptions. Nor is there any remarkable "Ukraine" effect on resignations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer to the many legitimate questions, but we are still hungry for a number of questions. You say that we should not reflect on the partner countries in terms of defence expenditure. They will be happy to be part of the partner countries and NATO. How can you explain that we have been lagging behind for years and still do so despite the additional investment? That's only gonna keep us locked up. I do not know how we can explain this to our partner countries. For us, it is absolutely necessary to make an extra effort on collective defence. The Flemish Interest has also always argued for a reorientation of our foreign operations and our foreign focus. I hope that we will continue to evolve in this direction. The budget alone won't make it, I've heard it say here. That's right. It will depend above all on the choices that will be made with that budget, but without a budget it will not succeed anyway. That is why we look forward to the programming law which will finally be proposed shortly, after a long announcement. Thoughtful choices, so that we are prepared for the defence of the future and the challenges of the future, are paramount for us. Unarmed drones aren't one of them for us. Furthermore, it is still necessary to pursue this diplomatic opening where it can continue with your Foreign Minister. I said this yesterday in the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Indeed, some reservations on behalf of NATO do not seem foolish to us. You confirmed that, too. If we go along with that, the end is lost. Unthoughtful and stupid statements by responsible world leaders throwing oil on the fire are absolutely avoidable for us. In this respect, we have not done a good job in recent days.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u12	Madam Secretary, I am somewhat disappointed by your response to the Military Hospital. I understand that only twenty-five victims, moreover only people with burns, will be able to be received, while more than 100 beds are taken by the Brugmann Hospital. I'm sorry about that. It is understandable that in times of peace there is a search for optimum use of the number of beds, but in times of war I do think that these beds should be released quickly. I also hear you say that there is insufficient staff to provide more comprehensive care, but that raises questions in the recent purchase of that large field hospital. How will that be manned? Will it be possible to cope with various traumas there? In what way? It's a good thing the field hospital's getting there, but it's got to be manned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u13	Madam Secretary, I understand that you cannot provide certain information during a public hearing, and I have every respect for that. On the one hand, there is crisis management at the moment. Some things I would have dealt with differently personally, particularly in the area of refugee reception. Other aspects I support, for example, the fact that our troops were deployed immediately in Romania and the extension of the operation in Estonia, with which we show that we are braced. I also support our arms supplies. Despite the fact that you are making additional budgetary efforts, which is a good thing, I do not understand why you are saying that you are looking at the average of the non-nuclear NATO countries in Europe, because I think we will be about 2%. You will therefore have to provide additional resources. You must try to convince your partners of that. If that average is calculated for all countries except France, we may even be above that 2% in 2030. I couldn't agree more. Everything evolves so quickly that it is politically indefenable not to fall behind that 2%. So we have to spend 2% of our GDP on our defence, also because the pressure from the US and the other partners on Belgium to keep our promise will continue to increase. In the framework of the NATO Summit in Madrid and the new Strategic Concept, many commitments will be added. Belgium would better convert the button and just choose that 2 %. There is no escape from this in any way. I understand the political story about who is asking for this money, namely the Prime Minister's office or your cabinet, because it will be the subject of major negotiations, and it will be said that the PS has already received a lot of money. However, that 2% is now just a priority. Time for choosing . Choose additional arms supplies, more support for Ukraine and more sanctions for Russia. Now finally choose that 2 % for our defense. Our resolution has been tabled. I hope that we can start the legislative work on this and start discussions with the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u14	Madam Minister, not all the questions have already been answered, certainly not those about the further progress in Romania, which I can partly understand. You state that NATO's allies have grown closer to each other because of this conflict situation. That is logical and a good thing. You are right to declare that we stand side by side in case the war expands into NATO territory. Let us hope that this does not happen at all and that we can stick to the current collective defence around the conflict area. According to the Flemish interest, it is absolutely necessary for our country to make its contribution to NATO. Until one and a half months ago, however, Mr Dewinter said that we should leave NATO and the party chairman said that Flemish Interest is very critical of NATO and is only loyal until there is a European alternative. Today it is said that it is shameful that Belgium does not comply with the requested contribution. Let me be clear: if I advocate a strong European pillar, it is indeed in NATO. Today, there is a call for both more weapons and more defence budget. That is understandable, but we also need to look further. Perhaps this is not a message to give in the Committee on Defence, but a solution will have to be found in the near future, and that solution will nevertheless consist of negotiations. I strongly believe that Europe will have to take the lead in this, because it is happening on our continent and we are directly affected by this terrible conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u15	Mr Verduyckt, there is a moving insight in everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u16	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you very much for your answers, which are truly comprehensive and rigorous. You say that Europe is at the centre of decisions. I do believe that, already through the pandemic test, we have seen that without Europe, we would not be anywhere. Here too, the European Union and Europe of defence, the Strategic Compass, NATO, are really essential elements for ensuring the security of our citizens and for having a European vision within NATO. Sharing European values and defending European interests within NATO seems to me to be, as you yourself recalled, something significant. You have explained the famous red lines, which we are waiting for, which are the red lines fixed by the European Union, by NATO, which Russia will not have to cross. As far as everything you have set up with the army is concerned, I would like to welcome what has been put in place. I am still surprised to hear the same criticisms about the military hospital, or about the fact that you would not have given sufficient resources or availabilities to the medical service to act. But those who speak today are those who wanted the death of military medical service. They were the ones who wanted to shut down the military hospital a few years ago, when they were in power. At some point, we still have to be a little consistent. I even find that they went so far as to remove the role of the Medical Component from the Army's Strategic Vision. You made it a component. They wanted to put it away. And for military missions abroad, they even thought about outsourcing medical accompaniment. I believe that, in a historical moment like the one we are going through, we must stop, of course, the polemics, but we must stop telling a whole series of carabisticles. And you have to know how to shoulder your responsibilities and your own mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u17	I continue to be amazed at the obsession of colleagues with our party and the cherrypicking content in what they assume we are saying, but completely aside. Madam Minister, you say that there are no estimates yet of the budget for strengthening our eastern borders in NATO, because no decisions have yet been taken. I can't imagine that our country would dismiss it responsibly. In your place, I would start calculating anyway, so that you know what budget is needed. There is an investment of 1.54 % of GDP by 2030 and this famous €1 billion over the coming years. That EUR 1 billion should serve to give you some breathing space to carry out the operations. However, we note that the presence of our military personnel in the current operations, for example in the Baltic States and in Romania, in the wake of the war in Ukraine, has already put pressure on that amount of EUR 1 billion. We will have to be more selective in our participation in operations, as you have already mentioned, or, if we want to be taken seriously as a country in the military field, and if we want to continue to assume our responsibility, you will not be able to settle for that 1.54 % by 2030. Especially if we want to strengthen our eastern borders, you'll have to knock on the table. We're gonna need more resources for the Defense Department. Without resources, you won't be able to start much. Current events show that we absolutely need to invest more in Defense unless you have the ambition to remain the third worst student in the class in the ranking of the non-nuclear allies. However, I cannot imagine that this is your intention or ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u18	Madam Secretary, you announced in your policy plan that you are working on your own cyber component to prepare Belgium for the hybrid warfare of the future. We see today in reports that EU institutions, and without doubt the Belgian institutions, are not well prepared for the growing cyber threat. We were recently allowed to experience that with our own Defense servers, Home Office servers and others. In order to develop the Belgian cyber capacity, you have released additional resources. Funding is absolutely necessary, but obviously not the only condition for a credible cyber component. You will also have to populate that service with competent and driven IT personnel. The question is how you will recruit these people, given the large pay gap compared to the private sector, where these profiles are very much sought after. Also about the way to recruit, pertinent questions arise. If this is done through Selor, we can recruit people with the right qualifications, but perhaps not with the right skills. It is perfectly possible that as an ethical hacker one does not have a master's degree, but the right knowledge, skills and motivation. How exactly will the Department of Defense recruit? What criteria are set? What procedure is being followed? Which channels are being recruited? How will you convince IT profiles to work for the Defense Department? How's the pay? How will you compete with the private sector? Are you considering recruiting more flexibly and dropping the rigid requirements of a master's degree? So are you considering recruiting on the basis of competences instead of a diploma? Is it also an idea to organise hack marathons, as happens in the United States, to attract the right profiles? Because of the challenge, people with the right skills might come to that. In this way, we can fill the gaps in our cyber security, in combination with the recruitment of cyber personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u19	Defence recruits military through external and internal recruitment, and citizens through SELOR and Egov Select, the Federal Government's IT recruitment agency. The criteria for knowledge, skills and attitude, and the procedures followed for recruitment and selection, as well as for obtaining security clearance, are laid down by law. The diversification of recruitment channels and the placement of partnerships with the actors in the regional labour market, industry and academia are being examined. In addition to the guarantee of a government remuneration, the Defence Department has a number of assets to recruit and retain specialised personnel. Among our candidates, we find the following motivational elements: the commitment to serve society and the search for a special employment framework, with a link to operational commitment. In the domain of cybersecurity, Defense distinguishes itself from other companies due to the military challenges associated with specific weapons systems. There are also the intelligence operations within the legal framework of the General Intelligence and Security Service. For positions of level A and B, people with a master's degree as well as a bachelor's degree are recruited. Defence studies whether candidates can be recruited who have sufficient professional experience but who do not necessarily have the required diploma. Every year, in collaboration with partners of the Cyber Security Coalition, a Cyber Security Challenge is organised in the Royal Military School. Defence is exploring the possibility to launch initiatives in the future with institutions like Molengeek and BeCode, to jointly increase the digital skills and cyberskills of disadvantaged people and thus give them access to the labour market, and Defence in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u20	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am pleased that, in your recruitment procedure, you take not only the diploma requirement into account, but also the criteria of knowledge, skills and attitude. I don't think that's more than logical. Although the criteria are legally established, I still think that one should think out of the box, especially when it comes to such specific profiles. In this respect, we must continue to examine all the slopes. I hope that the whole of remuneration, skills and knowledge can help to ensure that the recruitment pool can be as broad as possible in the near future. After all, you hope to be able to make progress on this issue as soon as possible. I therefore hope that this will become a reality in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u21	Minister, since you took office, the fight against all forms of discrimination in Defence has been a top priority. This priority is necessary to ensure that Defence is a working environment where everyone can flourish, but also to meet recruitment and anti-attrition imperatives. Given the health situation, Belgian Pride has had to be cancelled in recent years. The next edition is normally scheduled for May 22nd in the streets of our capital. This event conveys, as every year, its message of tolerance and recalls the importance of LGBTQI+ rights throughout our society. Minister, can you tell me whether, this year too, Defence – like the police or the federal public service, for example – will be represented in the village of the event? If so, in what form and by what means? More structurally, can you tell me what initiatives and means you have put in place within Defence to combat discrimination specifically targeting LGBTQI+ people, but also to support internal associations such as BELDEFRAC (Belgian Defense Rainbow Community) that are active in the LGBTQI+ community of Defence? Are further Defence participations in anti-discrimination events targeting LGBTQI+ people organized by public authorities, cupolas, networks or associations in the different regions, communities and provinces of our country planned or encouraged?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u22	Dear colleague, this year, the Belgian Defense Rainbow Community (BELDEFRAC) will participate in the Belgian Pride. Defence will provide support by providing BELDEFRAC with the necessary equipment for the organization of stands, communication media and the provision of its infrastructure. To combat discrimination, Defence implemented a diversity policy in 2014, which was updated in 2021. The protected criterion of sexual orientation is dealt with in more detail in a specific procedure: "sexual orientation in diversity policy". Each of these policies sets out the procedure to be followed in the event of a complaint. In addition, Defence is convinced that the systematic integration of sexual orientation into all of its policies will strengthen Defence's overall success. In cases of gender transidentity, a detailed instruction contains a series of information responding to the various questions that the staff members concerned and their hierarchy might ask themselves. The value of respect is reflected in both the values of the member and the civilian defence personnel and is one of the generic behavioural skills taken into account in the annual assessment of each staff member. Finally, Defence recognizes the BELDEFRAC association, formed by and for staff members who wish to contribute to the well-being of LGBTQIA+ in the army. Defence is also involved in the Beproud Network - Network for Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Expression of the Public Service, which contributes to the same objective. Since 2019, Defence has been raising the rainbow flag every year in the Queen Elisabeth district on the occasion of the International Day to Combat Homophobia. The Defence encourages participation in other Belgian Pride events for the current year, but nothing has yet been planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you very much for all these answers and for your fierce will to combat all discrimination. I think you're doing a useful job of improving life in society, especially that of our military. Thanks for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jasper Pillen's 55025062C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u25	Madam Minister, we have already received a number of briefings in the Commission for the Follow-up of Foreign Missions, but I still have a number of questions about the deployment of an NH90 on board the French air defense frigate Forbin, which is part of the carrier battle group Charles de Gaulle. Thirteen Belgian soldiers will participate in Operation Clemenceau 22. Madam Secretary, can you explain more about the Belgian participation? Will we participate in French development until the end of the operation? How are the dangers and the level of threat assessed? Are any additional security measures being taken for our people in the Defense Department? Whose orders are the military and pilots under this operation? Will our pilots only fly their own plane or will agreements be made with the French and Belgian crews? Who's in charge of the costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u26	The deployment of the Belgian NH90 NFH is part of the further building up of experiences in the field of maritime warfare, enhancing operational preparedness and improving interoperability with partner countries. In this context, that is France. The NH90 NFH was developed at the French frigate FS Forbin. This is part of the group Aéronavale, built around the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. The helicopter is scheduled to be deployed from 1 February to 7 April. The threat level vis-à-vis the developed Belgian military is not considered to be exceptional, given the area of deployment. Our NH90 will only be deployed within a pre-defined mission set coordinated with the French and should not operate in the Black Sea area without further permission from the Belgian Government. During the operations, Belgian personnel are under the tactical command of the French commander of the 473 Task Force to which the fleet belongs. Belgian interests are represented by the Belgian detachment commander, the Senior National Representative. The Belgian staff will only work and/or fly with the Belgian NH90. Costs such as accommodation, food, medical support on board, assistance in maintenance in the first line of the helicopter are borne by France. All other costs incurred in favour of the Belgian detachment and the helicopter will be borne by Belgium. These include wages and allowances, travel costs, costs of medical support ashore and fuel, as well as maintenance costs for the helicopter. As the helicopter is deployed unarmed, no ammunition costs are foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very punctual and full answer on that mission. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that we support such joint tasks internationally. During the assignment, which started on February 1st, the context of course has changed, knowing what is happening in Ukraine in the meantime. Despite this changed context, you say that no specific measures apply in the context of the threat level. As the international context has changed, I assume that the level of threat has also been slightly adjusted. Anyway, we support such assignments. This tastes like more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u28	Madam Secretary, in the international press we hear that Defence would have signed a contract with the German Dynamit Nobel Defense for the delivery of Matador anti-weapon systems. As far as I can remember, the file was not submitted to the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Madam Secretary, can you confirm the purchase? If so, why was it not submitted to the relevant committee? What stage is the file at? How many systems are included in the purchase amount of 19 million euros? Given that there are three variants on the market, what type of defence wants to purchase? What role will the weapon play in our ranks? Will it be directed against vehicles or will it be used more widely? Which units will receive the new weapon system? How will it relate to the current Spike we use now? Finally, how do you reconcile the purchase from a subcontractor of Rafael with the views expressed by your party here in Parliament, which aim to sanction companies and academic institutions for their cooperation with companies which form part of the Israeli industrial military complex?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u29	Mr President, since 2014, Defence has had 111 weapons systems RGW 90 in the framework of Anti-Fortification, Anti-Blendé short range capabilities. In 2021, a purchase was made for war munitions and training ammunition for that anti-tank weapon system through an international participation in the NATO Support and Procurement Agency. The purchase was submitted to the Army Purchasing and Sales Commission at the "Preliminary Agreement" stage. On 9 November 2021, the Chair of the Committee reported that no discussion of the dossier was requested. The RGW 90 is a short-term weapon with a wide range of bets against vehicles and bunkers or buildings. It can fire different types of ammunition. The RGW 90 is complementary to the Spike antitank weapon for long gestation. The RGW 90 is in use in the light and median units. The RGW 90 is produced by a German company. Only the development at that time happened in collaboration with Rafael.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u30	Madam Secretary, you state that the chairman of the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales has informed you that the file can be dealt with further. Parliament is currently missing the overall overview and the state of play of the various sub-files. A number of files are in the purchase phase. However, we do not know what stage each dossier is at. The committee meeting on 20 April, to which you have already referred, is important in order to get a clear overview of all the various current purchase files so that Parliament can carry out its task properly. I hope that we will have a detailed explanation for each dossier at that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u31	Madam Minister, with the signing by both CHODs of a mandate on 25 January, you have taken a new step towards a binational battalion. They launched the binational ERMESINDE working group, which will further develop the concept of training, equipment, location and organisation. The aim would be to operationalise the Belgian-Luxembourg reconnaissance battalion by 2028. Madam Minister, can you explain the specific mandate or mandate given to the working group? Who's gonna sit in the working group? Are these just defence personnel or is there also a political direction of the project? What is the expected number strength and what national balances are being pursued among the staff? Who will command the unit and decide on her bet? Is that the responsibility of our Defence Department or does it require joint decision-making by both countries and therefore partial integration of headquarters? Will a key be agreed for the costs of, among other things, armament, training and use of barracks, or should these costs be borne by Belgium as a host country? What agreements still need to be made on the assignment of uniforms, the use of arms by Luxembourg military in our territory, their legal responsibility in the event of incidents and their possible commitment to the battalion in the core missions of the Belgian and Luxembourg Defence Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u32	The binational ERMESINDE working group is responsible for the study of the creation of a binational reconnaissance battalion. The members of the working group belong to both national defence forces. The binational working group should examine all aspects relating to staff, equipment, infrastructure and budget in order to propose a first binational cooperation agreement to the political authorities. That study process is still ongoing. It is therefore too early at the moment to provide detailed answers to the questions asked. The aspects of command, integration of headquarters and cost sharing will be part of the first cooperation agreement. The cooperation agreement will be complemented by technical agreements to refine all practical modalities for the implementation of the binational unit. The creation of the binational battalion will be an important step in the anchoring of Belgian Defence with privileged partners, in this case Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u33	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u34	Madam Minister, on 4 February the Council of Ministers launched an open tender procedure for services facilities in Amay, Aarlen and Peer. This is a multi-annual framework agreement for a period of 10 years between 2023 and 2033 and a renewal of the current contracts for the Cdt De Hemptinne security service in Heverlee and the Wheat Shove in Leuven. Can you give an overview of future outsourcing or extensions of outsourcing contracts? How big does the DOD calculate the outsourcing of four additional sites? How big is the budget that Defense is spending on outsourcing today? Can we conclude from this call for tenders that the government does not provide for the update of the Strategic Vision to phase out outsourcing or self-management of supporting tasks? As far as the site in Aarlen is concerned, an outsourcing of the security mission was foreseen for 2019. However, it has not yet taken place. Can you confirm that the outsourcing of the services facilities will also allow for the outsourcing of the monitoring mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u35	Mr Francken, the next contracts of the guard that could be renewed in the future are the quarters of the Royal Military School, Poelkapelle, Rocourt and Melsbroek. As far as facility management is concerned, the planning consists of about thirty quarters. The first quarters that could qualify are Schaffen, Marche-les-Ladies and Florennes. No amounts are given as the procedures are ongoing. One of the main principles of the STAR Plan, as quoted in my policy paper, is that recourse to the private sector for supporting tasks and services will be applied if it proves to be cost-effective or more effective, but always with the guarantee that no operational mission of Defence will be compromised and that specific military tasks will be carried out by Defence personnel. The maintenance of buildings and technical installations and green maintenance are examples of this. As regards the outsourcing of the watch, in view of the precarious workforce resulting from the pension wave and the insufficient recruitment of the last few years, the Ministry of Defence has no choice but to outsource parts of the watchkeeping mission. This brings with it more costs compared to the self-fulfilment of this task by the same technological means.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u36	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u37	Madam Minister, on 28 January, the Council of Ministers approved the annual strategic level report for 2021, which will indicate the commitments under the 2017 Defense Investment Pledge. In the context of the Nato Defence Planning Process (NDPP), the alliance imposed 163 targets on us. Last year, the DOD couldn't fill in 22 of them. Can the Minister also submit the quantified report to Parliament? This is, after all, a minimum condition for the debate to take place on the substance. Can the Minister explain the report that the Prime Minister will hand over to NATO? What are the biggest strengths and weaknesses in reporting for 2021? How did the gaps in the strategic level report evolve with respect to last year? Where are they located and what is their weight within the overall picture? Which and how many of the unachieved thresholds are within reach or will be effectively completed by your STAR plan? How does the Minister assess the final performance of our country and its chances of success? How do we score with this report in the ranking of the alliance members?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u38	With the strategic level report adopted on 28 January, the government announced the planned path until 2025, with a defence effort of 1,20 % of GDP for that year. This is a first step towards the growth path in order to bring our defence effort back into line with the European non-nuclear NATO alliance by 2030. The final report was forwarded by the Prime Minister to NATO. It is up to the Prime Minister whether or not to give you a copy of this report. Given that the STAR plan aims to strengthen the European pillar within NATO, this plan will contribute to the achievement of the thresholds. No more detailed statements can be made about this at the moment. Belgium is a loyal and credible partner within the alliance. Like other Member States, Belgium will have to continue to invest in Defence, develop the necessary forces and capabilities and deploy them in operations if deemed necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u39	Mr President, could you request the report for this year from the Prime Minister's cabinet, as NATO apparently delivered it to the cabinet? It is absolutely necessary for the discussions to take place over the coming months, including on the strategic vision, on Belgian defence budgets, on the strategic compass of the European Union, but also on our own note and on our own Belgian vision, regardless of NATO, to know what the weaknesses are according to NATO. Of the 163 targets we did not achieve 22. In the meantime, are there fewer or more? In the corridors I've heard that there are more. Our bad points would therefore increase even further. We need to be able to look at that report as quickly as possible, if necessary behind closed doors or according to an arrangement with the secretariat. It is imperative that we know where our weaknesses lie in order to be able to conduct the debate in a thorough and expert manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u40	I can indeed check that out. However, do not hesitate to question the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u41	I will put a written question to the Prime Minister. However, if the request comes from the secretariat, it will be even stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u42	During the floods and the corona pandemic, Defense has worked with the other security services in our country: fire department, police, civil protection in the context of helping the nation. As a border resident, I tend to look across the border and it turns out that the Netherlands has the Catalogue National Operations, because in the Netherlands, Defence is also a partner in the fight against disasters, in crises, law enforcement, humanitarian and medical assistance. In this catalogue, the police, fire department, justice and municipalities can quickly and specifically search for what assistance Defence can provide. They find there a simple application and payment mechanism, whereby they can rent equipment from the Defense Department for a fee. Therefore, budgets have been made available for this purpose. Are you aware of the Dutch working method? Do you think it's interesting to apply it in our country? Is there a need for enhanced cooperation between the security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u43	Defence has indeed taken note of the Dutch way of working. She considers the Catalogue National Operations as an example of a good way of working. In Belgium, Defence plays a supporting role in national crisis management as a strategic reserve for the competent authorities. The work of Defence is carried out in close cooperation with the National Crisis Centre. In the event of a crisis, the NCNN's emergency planning services will examine the most appropriate contribution from the Defense Department. In addition, capabilities of Defence are already being structurally offered today to support national security services, on the basis of protocol agreements. Examples include the support of DOVO and the deployment of an NH 90 helicopter for SAR missions and the MUG of the Military Hospital. At my request, the defence staff is currently analysing how they can optimise the mission of Defence in the context of strengthening national security in Belgium. In the long term, the aim is to establish the necessary methods of deployment through an inventory of dual capabilities of Defence. Dual capabilities are capabilities that are necessary for military operations but can also be used in the context of aid to the nation. The anchoring of Defence in society is a fundamental aspect of the start-up plan. The aim of the plan is, among other things, to strengthen the place of Defence in the hearts of our fellow citizens. The inventory will list the dual capabilities of Defence, coupled with the type of emergency for which they can be deployed, and the intended effect. The role of Defence as a key actor in national security policy is also clearly stated in the national security strategy. The recent floods and the pandemic have demonstrated the need for support from Defence to the relevant civilian aid and intervention services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u44	Madam Minister, you gave a good overview of cooperation during crises, but it could also be cooperation at a much lower level. I heard stories about police shooting exercises in military fields, a collaboration that wasn't always flawless. So when I hear you say that you have given the order to draw up the inventory of dual capacities as part of the start-up plan, that sounds sensible to me. I do not know whether this will conquer the hearts of our fellow citizens, but it is certainly important that people see that Defence can provide social added value. Public services sometimes tend to consider their budgets, materials and men as their property. I am convinced that cooperation on security is an absolute must.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u45	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55025436C) by Mr Defossé and Mr Defossé, (Doc. Mr Loones' 55025462C was converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u46	Madam Minister, throughout the Ukraine crisis there are other geopolitical threats that are coming towards us. In the midst of the war situation in Ukraine, the threat posed by Beijing against Taiwan is increasing again. This is also a problem raised by several colleagues in the NATO Parliament. Taipei reported 9 Chinese fighter aircraft that crossed the Taiwanese air defence zone. This happened a few hours after the announcement of the Russian raid in Ukraine. China had previously stated that Taiwan is not Ukraine and will always remain a Chinese province. Therefore, Taiwan is becoming increasingly concerned that China will seize the momentum of the Ukraine crisis to launch or continue military aggression against the island. So I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you had any contact with your colleagues or the respective ambassadors on this matter? That might be something for your foreign minister, but still. If so, what were these contacts? How do you see the relationship between the escalated war in Ukraine and the threat to Taiwan? Do you also think that China might be able to make money out of this situation? Has a specific strategy been developed in a NATO context for this problem, with a response plan for when China would attack Taiwan? That is not an impossible situation. How do the EU and NATO work together in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u47	Mrs Ponthier, I have had no contact with my Chinese, Taiwanese and American counterparts or their ambassadors in relation to Taiwan. There is currently no observable indication of a possible Chinese aggression against Taiwan. In 2049 the People's Republic of China exists for a hundred years and the republic aims to be by then the most powerful country. These ambitions clash with the interests of other world players, with the result that NATO and the EU have also put China on their radar. However, the EU and NATO have different attitudes towards China. For NATO, China remains a major challenge. NATO's attitude towards China will also be included in the revised NATO strategic concept to be presented at the Madrid Summit in June this year. For the European Union, China is a partner for global interests, for example as regards climate questions, a competitor at the trade level and a systemic rival at the value level. Belgium supports any EU and NATO initiative that strengthens stability in the Indo-Pacific. The freedom of trade in the region is important for our economic growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic748x.u48	Madam Secretary, your answer is somewhat predictable, but it is not your fault. We must not underestimate the problem. China is very alert and vigilant at the moment. We should be, too, because it could escalate quickly. This has not only happened in Ukraine, but could also happen in the Indo-Pacific. The United States in particular has geopolitical interests, which could escalate the situation. I have already asked for vigilance on this issue in the past. I'm doing that again now. There is currently a very difficult understanding between the geopolitical powers. I would ask you to keep this subject on the agenda, especially in the context of NATO. Other partners seem to be doing the same. It does not seem to me to be an unnecessary luxury to speak with one voice in this matter.
