ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 May I already gave the state of play and progress on the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism. My colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, Minister of Justice, has already given an overview of his responsibilities and competences, including the issues of victims, State security, prisons, the GGB, the recognition of religious communities including mosques, and the process of attacks. In any case, I would like to thank you for the many requests for clarification and clarification, if I have counted well over a hundred, which I will go into in more detail today. I have clustered the questions so that I can deal with them together in my answer. I will start with the POC's recommendations to the police, followed by questions about the OCAD, the Crisis Centre, Astrid and final emergency power stations as well. With regard to the police, the N-VA Group and Ecolo-Green have submitted questions on information management. In particular, the N-VA is asking for greater clarity for the contextualisation of information management, which is characterised by ICT technology. On this point, I can say that this will be part of i-Police, which will make it possible to provide the relevant information for the police officer at that time. I-Police will thus ensure that the right information is displayed to the right people at the right time. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is asking a question about the change from the need-to-know principle to the need-to-share principle. I can answer that in the case of i-Police, both principles are normally applied, with the need-to-share principle prioritizing. The latter means that information is immediately centrally recorded. That information shall then be eligible for sharing. Information sharing can be done automatically. For example, if one has indicated in advance that information is sought about an entity or phenomenon, it is automatically notified. For example, the information can be made available in the context of an ongoing investigation and thus enrich the judicial file. If information as specified cannot be shared automatically, the rules on the need-to-know principle apply. Depending on the profile of the police officer seeking information, the information he receives will be determined. There are even modalities such as a HIT system, where one first receives only a notification that the information exists, even if it is still anonymised, for example because it is under embargo. Contacts will then have to be made to further agree on how to share classified information. In the womb of the Crisis Center, the need-to-share principle was operationalised within the operation of the PIU, where four security and intelligence services are active. In addition, this was integrated into the laws and royal decree on the operation of this PIU. The regulation states that in the event that several services have a positive agreement on one and the same passenger, the services concerned are immediately and automatically informed by the IT system. So here the information is already being shared for the first time according to the need-to-share principle. A mandatory coordination mechanism will then be established within which the services also share the contextual information about this suspicious passenger, in order to allow for a coordinated action. The PIU Act also states that this information should be shared with the other PIUS where relevant. This is also an example of a need-to-share principle. Several groups have asked a number of questions about the Safety Crossroads Bank, including the N-VA, Ecolo-Green, the MR, Vooruit and Les Engagés. I can tell you that the recommendation on the Crossroads Bank Security is indeed in progress, on the basis of a common vision paper approved jointly with the Justice Department. Pending its full implementation, we have already taken further steps to allow information to flow more efficiently. First of all, we have opted for the integrated police for the project I-Police which will consult several underlying databases with one application. I'll come back to this later. Secondly, the intelligence services are given access to the ANG of the police. Access was granted in 2020, and in 2021 the State Security started integrating it into its systems. Since the end of 2021, developments have been completed and the necessary tests are under way between the two parties, the VSSE (State Security) and the Federal Police. A further follow-up meeting is planned later this month to take stock of the developments still to be implemented. As soon as the tests are carried out with the State Security, developments for the General Intelligence and Security Service will begin. In addition, the common database of the OCAD also exists. This database contains in principle all the relevant unclassified information that the Belgian competent services have regarding the entities in the database. It is also directly consultable by most of the connected services, either via the hit/no-hit system. There is, therefore, a series of connected databases which require analysis of whether existing systems need to be strengthened before creating a new safety crossroads bank. With regard to legal aspects, the federal police are working with its partners to develop a protocol and a royal decree describing access to the BNG. There is no specific legislation for the Safety Crossroads Bank today. The principle of the crossroads bank is that the information is shared efficiently between the different security and intelligence services: the GPI, OCAD, State Security, ADIV, Customs, Crisis Centre and PIO. A legislative initiative is needed to allow and organise this information sharing. With regard to police services, legislative and technical steps have already been taken to enable this information to be shared. The publication of the Links Directive, in effecting the law on police officers, is an important legal step. Indeed, the Directive lays down the framework and conditions within which databases can be linked in a more automated manner, so that efficient exchanges between police forces and other security services can take place. Technically, a unique gateway for third-party security services was developed in the police forces to have controlled access to police information. Secondly, there was a question from the PS about iPolice about how this project fits into the recommendations, in particular in the exchange of information with Belgian intelligence services and even with European and international police. iPolice streamlines a number of existing applications at the local and federal levels by creating a common data management system and a records management system. This case management system replaces the various existing national general banks, including the national judicial bank, the national administrative bank and the national traffic bank. This new single national general bank (BNG) will allow data from the various partners in the security chain to be made available through open data architecture and fine access management. Existing information flows with Belgian and international partners (Schengen, Europol, Interpol) will be preserved but will eventually be richer in information. In order to respond to a number of recommendations from the audits of international agencies, the new case management will be implemented as a pilot in the services of the Directorate of International Police Cooperation of the Federal Police in the course of 2023. A next set of questions, from Open Vld, MR and Ecolo-Groen, was about the international information exchange. In particular as regards the questions of and Ecolo-Green, regarding the technical implementation of the SIENA point-to-point connection with the Passengers Information Unit (PIU), I would like to give the following state of play. The technical implementation does not cover the exchange of information via the SIENA point-to-point connection of the PIU, which is already operational. It does refer to the comparison of the Passengers Name Record data with international alerts in the databases of the Schengen Information System (SIS) and Interpol. In December 2020, the Integrated Police (GPI) and BelPIU agreed to phase out the comparison of passenger data with international alerts. In a first phase, the alerts provided for in Article 26 of the SIS legislation, which deals with arrests, and Articles 36.2 and 36.3 of the SIS relating to the discreet and targeted checks, will be launched, as these types of alert are closest to the legal scope of PNR regulation. Within this first stage, alerts on the arrest shall start. The comparison with Article 36 SIS alerts, concerning the discreet and targeted check, will start under the new SIS record. We are currently discussing this draft law at political level. In a second phase, the Interpol data falling within the PNR scope will be made available. In a third and final phase, the comparison with the other SIS articles may start under the same conditions. Technical developments will start in September 2022 and the tests are scheduled for October. As regards the access of the GPI to the Europol Information System (EIS) via the information kiosk, I can confirm that it was analysed. Technical implementation depends on the choice of priorities defined by the Strategic Committee on Information and ICT. A question from the MR, in particular from Mr. Ducrame, who appears to be absent, concerned international reports and possible delays in encoding reports that fall within the jurisdiction of the federal police. I can tell you that since 2020, there has been no further delay in the processing of international reports at the level of the CJI. International alerts in general and "terrorist" alerts in particular are always carried out as a matter of priority. Mr Vandenput, I come to your question about the Belgian PIU and the performance of the IT systems. An automatic flux going to the ANG shall be used. The current ANG will be replaced by a new and more performing ANG as part of the i-Police project. BelPIU will also be able to make use of these new possibilities in the future. Members of the Ecolo Green Group then had questions about data protection and COC recommendations. Since the entry into force of the GDPR and the Law of 30 July 2018, many actions have been undertaken to meet data protection, information management requirements and the resulting obligations. For example, the local police zones and the executives of the federal police have appointed a data protection officer. This DPO shall, inter alia, have the task of ensuring compliance with the rules and internal rules relating to the protection of personal data, including the raising of awareness and training of personnel involved in the processing. The police services have therefore set up various training and awareness-raising programmes. In the judicial districts there are also exchange platforms between the DPOs, where good practices and answers to questions are exchanged. This includes the recommendations of the COC, which relate, for example, to the quality of the registrations in the RegPol processing register. This register should include all processing operations involving personal data. The register currently contains more than 6,100 processing operations and is updated daily by the DPOs. A further question from your group was about the Open Source Intelligence, in particular why OSINT was not realized. The federal police had joined as a partner in an OSINT project together with the Defense Department. However, the public contract has ceased because the solution provided did not meet the requirements of the principals. As a solution, the needs of OSINT and Social Media Intelligence were included in i-Police's specifications. As part of the implementation of i-Police, it is currently listed which different tools are in use within the GPI, for what purposes they are used and what functional needs there are, to include them in the applications that are being developed. In the Brussels-Capital Region there is a project around OSINT. The regional Cybercenter BXL contains several projects which are integrated and mainly financed by the Brussels-Capital Region. This cybercenter is a collaboration of various actors, including the local police zones, the services of the DirCo and the services coordinated by the Director of Operations of the FGP Brussels and its Regional Computer Crime Unit. The evaluation of OSINT has shown that it should not be viewed as a separate tool, because when human lives are at risk or in the event of other important events it is essential that all relevant data is collected. For this, multiple OSINT tools must be used and compared to other data. Another question from the same group was about the exchange of information on terrorism and radicalism. You asked me, in particular, about the culture of information sharing which is now in progress, because, of course, I fully agree with that, an integrated approach to the phenomena of radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism is absolutely necessary to ensure the security of citizens. The Information Management Directive in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism was circulated on 10 October 2018. This Directive was amended in the course of 2021, with the support of the five FPGs Terro and the DJSOC/Terro, and a new version entered into force on 30 September 2021. As regards the culture of information sharing, I refer to the law of 27 April 2016 on additional measures to combat terrorism, which provides a legal basis for the concept of common databases to prevent and combat terrorism and extremism that could lead to terrorism. In this context, a tool was developed to enable such information sharing. A first version introduced at the end of 2015 had technical and performance problems. That's why I decided to set up a new database according to the latest techniques and standards. This new database has been operational since November 2021. Then there was a question from Mr Demon about cooperation with the United Kingdom on combating terrorism and radicalisation, as well as my work visit to the Counter Terrorism Operations Centre and the National Situation Centre in London a few weeks ago. The Counter Terrorism Operations Centre houses several British services in charge of combating terrorism in order to achieve a more integrated and integrated approach. The importance of CTOC is inextricably linked to the large number of police and law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom. The National Situation Centre can be considered the equivalent of our National Crisis Centre. During my visit there I found that there are many parallels, but of course they work within a different regulatory framework. It goes without saying that in spite of the Brexit, both institutions, namely CTOC and the National Situation Centre, also bring great added value to us. It is for this reason that we have had a liaison officer in London with the police since spring 2020 to ensure that the data exchange is as smooth as possible. I believe that I have already said here in committee that we are working on a cooperation agreement with the United Kingdom to ensure that real-time information can be shared and that an integrated approach is thus made possible. Discussions were launched following my visit in March 2022. The working groups are currently working on this. Mr Demon, like the N-VA Group, you had a question about cooperation with Turkey, in particular about the Hotspot procedure. I suspect you have the very current situation in mind, but we may be able to discuss that later. I can tell you about the Hotspot procedure that there is good cooperation and mutual trust with Turkey. As you know, the Hotspot procedure was set up at the time, in order to ensure that the Belgian Foreign Terrorist Fighters who are deported from Turkey return to Belgium in a safe but also controlled manner. Since the entry into force of the Hotspot letter, the Executive Board of the International Police Cooperation of the Federal Police has assessed the cooperation between Belgian diplomatic posts and the post of the liaison officer of the Istanbul Police as excellent in the context of the organisation of expulsion operations of Belgian and alleged Belgian FTFs. The exchange of information between the Parties shall take place in real time, using, of course, all available means of communication. To encourage cooperation with Turkey, an action plan for the years 2019-2020 was signed in Brussels on the initiative of the CGI on 27 June 2019. For example, a first study visit was organised in Ankara in December 2019 in the context of the fight against criminal organisations. Other planned activities were mainly suspended as a result of the corona crisis and related restrictions. However, I can inform you that, subject to unforeseen circumstances, all the activities envisaged in the 2019-2020 Action Plan will be carried out in 2022. International police cooperation with regard to the connection between the local and federal police of the Ecolo-Green Group is certainly also a focus of attention. The dialogue between the federal and local police on international police cooperation takes place mainly in the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. Last year, in response to my question, a joint action plan of the GPI was drawn up to implement the recommendations made by the P Committee in the report on cross-border police cooperation between Belgium and France for the local police areas of the provinces of Hainaut and West Flanders. The work on this activity in the CCGPI will, of course, also continue. Mr Vandenput, you had a question about the liaison officers and, in particular, about the liaison officer's post in Turkey. That post was strengthened already in 2018 with an operational assistant. Where the liaison officer is absent, the operational assistant shall be responsible for following up the operational files. The other liaison officers shall make the necessary arrangements to inform the operational services which wish to call on them. Urgent messages during their absence should then be sent through the traditional police information exchange channels, in particular Europol or Interpol. Following the signing of the new Benelux Police Cooperation Treaty in 2018, an agreement was drawn up on the use of each other's liaison officers. It stipulates, inter alia, that urgent orders from a LO of a country temporarily absent may be carried out under certain conditions by a LO of another Benelux country in order to ensure the continuity of the contracts. There were many questions from Ecolo-Groen about the day-to-day management of the FGP. We had an extensive exchange of views on the FGP last week. The DGJ has made a letter of order with the vision DGJ 3.0, which defines the strategic objectives. They have been prepared in consultation with the FGP's staff and must be accompanied by strong internal communication. The implementation of the strategy's objectives shall be monitored regularly. At operational level, there is a network of operational directors, DirOps, who are centrally controlled. It represents all the FGPs, enabling the operational operating processes to be continuously adjusted. The steering role of the Director-General of the FPGs to ensure coordination between the FGPs has thus increased considerably. Mr Depoostere, you had a question about the possibility of the federal prosecutor or a investigating judge to designate one senior police officer for an investigation by several FGPs. I can tell you that this working method is frequently used, not only in the context of terrorist cases, but also in other cases. Mr Vandenput, as regards your question on the exchange of information between the FGPs, I can refer again to the October 2018 Directive on information management in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism. This was the subject of a favourable opinion from the College of Attorneys General. The purpose of that Directive is to manage the information, both in terms of structured and non-structured data and in terms of classified and unclassified information. The Directive provides that all nine non-specialised FTPs on terrorism also have an information position in that domain and that that information must always be provided to the five FGPs Terro. The Directive also describes the working processes for the exchange of information between the five FGPs Terro and with the Central Service DJSOC Terro. The DGJ conducted a survey of the five FGPs Terro in 2020 and established that the transfer of information is carried out correctly by the nine non-specialised FGPs. In the long term, however, I think it is necessary to review the existing systems, processes and IT applications and replace them with i-Police for a more coordinated approach. The groups of N-VA, Flemish Interest and Open Vld had a question about the involvement of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General in the day-to-day management of the FGP. The Director-General of the Federal Judicial Police regularly commits with the College of Attorneys General and with the Minister of Justice on policy and management of resources. In this way, the objective of the involvement of the Minister of Justice and the College of Attorneys General is met. In addition, the 2014 Optimisation Act established the consultation platform Justipol between the GPI and the integrated governments. Justipol should, inter alia, strengthen the joint strategy and modalities of cooperation between the judicial authorities and the GPI and also make recommendations on common issues. Justipol meets at least once a semester. At my level as Minister of the Interior, I decided to organise a more systematic and structural consultation with the DGJ, the College of Attorneys General and the Minister of Justice in the future in order to follow up the management and policy of the FGP, in line with the recent decision of the Council of Ministers on Friday 17 June on the allocation of resources for the GPI, in particular the FGP. As regards the FGP's capacity questions, I refer to last Wednesday's extensive exchange of views in the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and Justice. The Management Committee of the Federal Police decided in February this year to provide a temporary reinforcement of DJSOC/Terro in the form of secondments. In addition, continuous monitoring of available resources at DGJ level is carried out. A method has been developed to measure the cross-work pressure between the FGPs and, if necessary, provide temporary lateral support in the form of secondments. As discussed last week, we will also be investing heavily in our judicial police in the coming years. We can regret it, but the resources are not unlimited and must therefore be used efficiently. That is why I have instructed the federal police to consider how the resources available can be used in the most efficient way for the safety of our citizens and businesses. The N-VA asks if we are better prepared 6 years after the attacks if the worst scenario is repeated. A lot of lessons have been learned in recent years. Many procedures and working methods have been developed, both in the proactive phase and in the management phase of the incident. Unfortunately, we can never completely rule out the risk of an attack. We have known several attacks abroad in recent years. So vigilance is still the message. A zero risk does not exist, but the OCAD constantly analyses the level of threat, keeps us informed and encourages us to take the appropriate measures. Then there was a question from the Ecolo Green Group about online terrorist content. As regards the notification procedure in the context of online terrorist content, I would like to draw your attention to the activities of DJSOC/i2-IRU, which was designated as SPOC for the removal of content from the Internet providers. Today it is still about voluntary removal, because the service does not have the legal authority to remove illegal content itself. Subject to a judicial decision, the internet platform is the only one with the option of removing such content after an auto-evaluation. We must also look at the European initiatives that are being taken on this issue. Last year, 367 suspicious content was found. Internet platforms have removed this 183 times, because of that technique of voluntary removal. The i2-IRU section seeks information that is freely available on the Internet in relation to hate propaganda, terrorism, radicalism and violent extremism. If this section discovers a Belgian involvement, the department will contact the police department which has territorial jurisdiction. With regard to the concept of trusted flagger, the DJSOC/i2-IRU section has reported to the internet platforms as SPOC for reporting hateful content. Because this service is recognized by these platforms, the section communicates the content and elements to the platforms, via an address identifiable as coming from the i2-IRU section and thus from a police department. The platforms have given the department a special status as trustworthy rapporteur, this is that trusted flagger. The N-VA had a question about radicalisation and the National and Local Task Forces. The two new categories, the potentially violent extremists, PGE, and the terrorist convicts, TV, have been included in the common database foreign fighters since 31 January 2019. Its introduction guarantees a more complete covering of the entities to be followed within the Extremism and Terrorism strategic note. The existing categories of succeeded entities concern a large number of persons convicted of terrorism. However, they are not all subject to the status of "terrorist'. This latter category ensures that those who agree with all partners within the Strategy TER that they still pose a potential risk to society can continue to be followed, even after serving their sentence after a conviction for terrorism. There were then questions from four political groups about the creation of the Joint Information Center and the Joint Decision Center. At present there is only one JIC/JDC within the jurisdiction of Brussels. However, this is a temporary situation, as progress is being made in the other jurisdictions of the appeal court. From 1 January 2019, the JIC and the JDC will be the standard in the jurisdiction of the court of appeal in Brussels. All information relevant to the appeal court and likely to be of a terrorist nature is discussed in the vast majority of cases in the JIC and submitted to the JDC. For the other Terro units, the current situation is an interim phase with a Counter Terrorism Forum, but it is intended that JICs/JDCs will eventually be established at their respective levels. The position defended by Attorney General Johan Delmulle, who he also presented to the Coordinating Committee on Intelligence and Security of 27 April 2022, is as follows. JIC-JDC members support the expansion of JIC-JDC to other jurisdictions. In this context, the concept of JIC-JDC Brussels, together with all the processes and models set out therein, must be used as a basic concept. After three years, the working method of JIC-JDC Brussels can be considered as consolidated and cannot be changed. The next enlargement track is discussed: 5 spring JICs, like JIC Brussels, or 1 national JDC, like JDC Brussels, with varying composition; spring JICs operate from their headquarters (PJF Liège, Charleroi, Ghent, Antwerp and Brussels) or the national JDC moves to the jurisdiction concerned or – if possible at the technical and budgetary level – it operates with the help of secure digital communication. As regards the sharing of information within the JIC/JDC, it should be stressed that all partners of the JIC/JDC Brussels confirm that the exchange of information is progressing smoothly. As regards the Brussels federal judicial police, procedures have been put in place for the control and qualitative exchange of available information, and so far no incident has been reported. As far as the other jurisdictions of the court of appeal are concerned, I am not aware of any problems or incidents, even if the JIC/JDC system is not yet operational there. One of the principles laid down by Attorney General Johan Delmulle is that the JIC/JDC does not replace the Local Task Force. Unlike the JIC/JDC, which focuses on the analysis of new information or on the exchange of information in the context of ongoing judicial files, the Local Task Force focuses on the measures to be taken to monitor persons who may be included in the Joint Database. The analysis carried out within that JIC/JDC could therefore lead to a decision to refer the information for ad hocfollow-up within a Local Task Force. Mr Depoorter, with regard to your question on the extension of the Intelligence Fusion Cell from the FGP Brussels to the four other FGP Terro, I can tell you that not every FGP Terro has an Intelligence Fusion Cell. However, there are forums for Counter Terrorism that work according to similar principles, but with local accents. As for the question from the N-VA group about the Fugitive Active Search Team, that was involved in the detection of terrorist suspects until early this year. However, the finding was that about 1,850 fugitives tracking down is unexploited work for this team alone. In addition, the law on police officers allows every police officer to carry out these investigations. Consequently, a COL 08/2021 was established to regulate the implementation of the extended investigation possibilities in the context of the execution of the sentence while allowing coordination between all police forces. Mr Depoorter, you asked a question about the technique of the red files, in which certain dossiers were not dealt with further by the FGP Brussels, but by another FGP. That is no longer the case today. After all, the peak of the dossiers to be dealt with has decreased. It is therefore impossible to compare this technique with the public prosecutor's policy. Questions concerning the federal police support services for personnel management, budget and resources were already discussed in detail during last week's exchange of views, together with the Minister of Justice. With regard to the concern of the N-VA regarding the procurement procedures for equipment and equipment that need to be faster and more efficient, I can tell you that a plan was drawn up within the federal police to prevent underutilisation of the appropriations. The Finance Directorate has already made adjustments to the purchasing structure and the integration of the purchasing service. Further steps in the other managements still need to be taken in order to achieve further concrete results. I would like to say a few words about the administrative police and the involvement of the General Executive Board of the Administrative Police in the fight against terrorism. That is an immediate answer to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Progress has been made with regard to the involvement of DGA's operational services in the legislative and regulatory framework, the evolution of technology, the use of more appropriate techniques and the strengthening of cooperation with the partners concerned. Progress was made specifically for the aviation police through the use of new technologies. The shipping police is also investing in better technology and has contributed to the development of the e-form for the registration of crews under the additional Schengen control. The shipping police, in close cooperation with the port authority, actively participated in the introduction of the ISPS code in Belgium, in the form of a bill from the Minister of Justice. The security of our ports is enhanced by the use of surveillance cameras, in particular the European Beacon project in Zeebrugge. The federal road police are also involved in various projects to improve the safety of our roads and parkings with cameras. In the meantime, the WPR has also devoted a great deal of energy to cooperation with neighbouring countries, including in the context of a Benelux cooperation. The WPR is also working on further improving cooperation with the federal judicial police and using their investigative tools, such as the GES application in the context of detective management. Finally, police intervention teams are better prepared thanks to appropriate training, such as Behaviour Detection Officer, but also to certain working methods. In the railway police, for example, the departure of the military led to the creation of specific patrols under the name 'Protect Rail'. All these units use, among other things, dog brigades, in particular explosives dogs, which have received special training within the Dog Support Board. That management even has a certification centre that helps train explosives dog teams in the private security sector. Mrs Ingels raised a question about airport safety. Last week, at national airport level, the airport security plan was presented, in implementation of one of the specific recommendations of the POC. Close and constructive cooperation between all actors in the field was achieved, rather than working in the SILOs as before. According to EASA regulations, BAC as operator organises a major disaster exercise every two years. In the meantime, multidisciplinary exercises are also organised, both internally with airport stakeholders and external disciplines. The last large-scale exercise, called Exit, dates from October 23, 2021. Prior to that, on 18 May 2019 Coach was trained and on 2 December 2017 the drill Hammer. A new large-scale exercise is planned in 2023. The Directorate-General of Aviation is also closely involved in these exercises. With regard to the medical equipment in the terminal, external defibrillators are automatically provided and the medical cabinet of the Airport Rescue team is located nearby. In addition, the two car pumps of the Fire and Emergency Services are equipped with six TECC kits each for the crew. These are special kits for life-saving acts of terror. Since the use of these kits requires special training, it does not seem to us to be an added value to provide it to the public in the terminal. So they have to be deployed by the aid workers. With regard to the screening of the airport staff, I can report that a security officer was appointed to the management of the aviation police. Among other things, he maintains contacts with the security staff with the private partners, which will facilitate cooperation. Furthermore, the security officer also participates in the Air Navigation Service Committees on the safety announcements prior to the issue of an airport badge. I would add that in February of this year the National Security Council decided to divide the current powers of the NVO between the State Security and the Federal Police. Currently, a working group with all partners is working to adapt the laws and regulations and an adapted structure for staff, equipment, buildings and ICT developments. The PS group asked about the Directorate of Security (DAB). Currently, there are 1,300 staff in the DAB, comprising 1 Divisional Police Commissioner, 24 Commissioners, 110 Senior Inspectors, 3 Police Security Coordinators, 336 Assistants, 769 Police Security Officers and 57 Administrative and Logistics Officers. The missions to secure nuclear sites in Flanders (Doel and Mol/Dessel/Geel), royal estates and palaces, the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) and the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) have not yet been taken over by the DAB. The security of nuclear sites by the DAB is planned for January 2023. Mr Pivin, you asked a question about the role of the Commissioner-General. This ensures a coherent vision for the federal police, notably through the cascade principle of the agent's mission letters. The Commissioner General and the Federal Police Steering Committee work together on a daily basis as part of this vision. The legal changes indicated by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry in order to create a parallelism between the deconcentrated judicial directorates and the deconcentrated coordination and support directorates (DCA) have not yet been made. At the strategy level, the structures set up by the Integrated Police Act, provided that they are properly implemented, are sufficient to make the necessary decisions for the operation of the Federal Police (PJF). The coordination of activities between the PJF and the DCA is already enshrined in the Integrated Police Act. Synergies between the PJF and the DCA are achieved through a common PLIF (staff, logistics, ICT and finance), common infrastructures, joint participation in the task forces "terro", provincial consultations and research consultations of the boroughs. With regard to information management, it should be noted that the DCA has been supporting the PJF in the management and exploitation of information, i.e. the task of the borough information hubs (CIAs) within the information and communication services of the borough (SICAD). Next, the Vooruit Group had a question about integrity and in particular the leaking of information. Since the publication of the POC's report, particular attention has been paid in the field to the monitoring and monitoring of information management. In 2021, concrete, clear guidelines were drawn up to prevent the illegal consultation of databases in general and the leaking of information in particular. The illegal consultation of databases can be subject to severe disciplinary sanctions. In the Memorandum on integrity policy, signed by the Commissioner-General in December 2021, federal police put forward a global and integrated integrity management that balances control and incentive. An open organisational culture is sought in which all staff work together on professional responsibility. For this purpose, nine strategic objectives were set by the federal police. I'll go over them briefly. Firstly, we are talking about a permanent image of the most vulnerable functions and processes in terms of integrity and integrity issues. Secondly, it concerns the development of networks and consultation structures between all primary integrity actors of the federal police, such as the medical service, the welfare service, personnel services and the stress team, in order to promote integrity management. Thirdly, it concerns the development and implementation of specific integrity projects and actions, fourthly, the strengthening of framework and the promotion of ethical leadership, with a value compass integrated into the training of police officers, fifthly, the implementation of the legislation on reporting integrity violations, the so-called whistleblower scheme. The draft law on this matter was before the negotiating committee with the police unions last week. Sixthly, it concerns the optimisation of complaint management, seventhly, the optimisation of the application of the disciplinary procedure, eighthly, the development of an evaluation and monitoring system for integrity projects and integrity management, and finally the further development and communication of the Integrity service to the Commissioner-General. In addition, the federal police organises a state-general on police integrity. In this context, the integrity actors of the GPI were invited to reflect on the challenges of integrity management and integrity issues and risks in the police. An inspiration day will also be organised in autumn 2022. With regard to administrative enforcement, which the N-VA and Open Vld had questions about, it is absolutely my practice to improve the information position of administrative authorities through a more intensive exchange with the Public Prosecutor's Office. That cooperation or information exchange is also part of my draft law on administrative enforcement, which we are working on. As I have pointed out on several occasions, even last week, here in committee, it is a priority for local authorities to have more instruments, namely an operating licence, an integrity investigation and administrative periodic penalty payments, to act against malicious operators. The preliminary draft law on municipal administrative enforcement of undermining crime has been submitted to several stakeholders in that domain in recent months. I can also tell you that the preliminary draft will be discussed in the government shortly. Of course, the draft will then have to be submitted to the Council of State, the Data Protection Authority and the COC, and hopefully I will do everything I can to ensure that it can be submitted to the Committee and the Chamber as soon as possible. One final question cluster, namely the N-VA, concerned police zones and scale. In my opinion, I have the impression that my opinion is shared - the limited scale of certain police areas often makes it difficult to respond efficiently and adequately to not only the security needs but also the needs for the internal organisation of our police operation. This is why efforts are already being made to increase a number of police areas, which are now on a voluntary basis, not only through mergers but also through genuine operational cooperation, which gives the local corps more operational and also financial power. In 2009 and 2016, the necessary legislation was developed through the Integrated Police Act. However, as was also demonstrated by the 2018 University of Ghent's scientific research, it remains clear that most local administrative authorities will only move into a process of scaling up, if certain conditions can be met, such as proximity police conditions and local anchoring conditions, as well as finance and governance. In order to meet this challenge, this legislature met with the States-General through the Multidisciplinary Commission on the issue of optimal scale and linked to the funding of the Local Police. It is absolutely essential that we do this. It is also mentioned in the workplace that something needs to be done about this. In 2023, I would like to put a drawing on the table. To this end, we have also set up a working group on the basic functions of the police. We must, of course, determine what we expect from the local police zones. Another working group will focus on the optimal scale. I have already been asked how many areas out of the 185 have to be left. I cannot comment on this today. However, there is little discussion that we should go to a scale increase. As a starting point, we already have the results of the scientific research on the ten completed fusion paths by Ghent University. The interim findings of the study clearly point towards added value, including in the field of services, especially in the areas of specialisation, reduction of charges and back office services, whose needs have increased significantly and become more complex. I'm talking about HR, well-being and stress teams at the workplace for our police officers. So we definitely have to get to work on that. I now come to my answers on the OCAD and the cooperation of the OCAD with other services, including the local integrated safety cells (LIVC). We encourage local authorities to set up such a LIVC, but that remains ultimately a power and responsibility of the mayors. The decision on the participation of the OCMWFs also belongs to the local authorities. I also note that the political negotiations with the Länder on the draft cooperation agreement between the Federal Government, the Regions and the Communities for the establishment of LIVCs on radicalism, extremism and terrorism will be restarted. They were put on hold because the penitentiary LIVCs on radicalisation and terrorism, the so-called P-LIVC-Rs, had to be discussed first by the interdepartmental working group. The P-LIVC-Rs will also be included in the cooperation agreement that we are currently working on. For an answer to the questions on the pilot project on the establishment of penitentiary LIVCs on radicalisation, extremism and terrorism within the prison walls, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Justice, who will undoubtedly be able to tell you more about this. Following the evaluation of Plan Radicalism or Plan R and the transformation to the Strategic Note Extremism and Terrorism, we assumed that the services concerned should cooperate more closely. That was a main theme of the POC's report. The Plan R was approved at the end of 2015, responding to the reality of that moment. Meanwhile, the threat has clearly evolved, because not only is it Islamicly inspired anymore. We must now take into account threats from all ideological angles with a rather diffuse character. Moreover, it was found that the Plan R had only been adopted by the federal level. However, if we are to adopt a multidisciplinary approach, all actors must be involved. It was also important, in the evaluation of the Plan R, to update the structures in accordance with the adopted legal frameworks. Finally, the evaluation, and hence the actualisation, was based on the assumption that the reality varies from region to region and sometimes even from province to province or municipality to municipality. A plan of general measures for the whole territory was not considered useful. A common framework, a strategic note on extremism and terrorism was preferred, in which all the actors concerned committed themselves to working together in a uniform manner. Afterwards, of course, this will be translated regionally or locally. I come to the question of the MR Group on the possession of weapons and on how information on the possession of weapons is transmitted. If the intelligence services find that the holder is radicalised or potentially dangerous, within the framework of the "StratTER", a procedure has been developed within the local task force on weapons permits for persons in a common database (BDC). This procedure involves regular checks of "under-status" persons for the possession of weapons and applications for arms licences. This procedure has also been developed with the Governors' departments, which are thus informed of the operation of this procedure. A key role is played by the local police and the Chief of Staff, who is expected to give advice to the Governor's services in the context of an extension or termination request. The local police must then, in close cooperation with the official information of the area participating in the local task force, ensure that a "status" person does not submit an application. If that is the case, it is clear that it is not desirable for that person to obtain a positive opinion. If necessary, the local police area may use BDC data. Mr Vandenput, so far 386 people have participated in training as an information officer. This training is currently being reviewed in order to meet needs even better. I also want to look at them to open them up to other staff, both federal and local police. The aim is not only to alleviate the need for newly appointed information officers, but also to train their colleagues and all those involved in tackling violent extremism and terrorism. It is also envisaged to supplement the training with other continuing training which should enable the staff concerned to strengthen and update their knowledge in the field. Regarding the question of early detection by the Local Task Forces (LTFs) and the Local Integrated Safety Cells (LIVC), I can explain that the concept of early detection must be understood from two perspectives. Firstly, there is the security perspective. On the basis of their information and information, the services discuss whether a person should be followed by a statute in the Common Database (GGB), or whether there is a need for information with a preliminary examination for six months. If no further information is available, the person shall no longer be taken into account. Secondly, there is the social-preventive perspective. That's a job for the LIVC-R. Where there is no safety problem or no elements are noted, those services shall not be informed. It is then the responsibility of the local level and the prevention services. The TER strategy consolidated that system. This culture of information exchange was already present in the security services. However, it is right that we should continue to work on raising awareness of the role of the LIVC-R and its task of early detection, which is primarily in the interests of the individual, before he or she can become a social problem. The services are currently working on this, but we need the cooperation of the services at other levels of policy and the willingness of local authorities to set up their LIVC-Rs. An important improvement is the feedback of the LIVC-R to the LTF. As far as early detection of a threat of right-wing extremist violence is concerned, in recent years, there has been a strong commitment to countering the threat from right-wing extremist angle. This is reflected in an increase in the number of entities followed for that phenomenon in the framework of the Ter strategy. The structures deployed are in principle sufficient to allow early detection. Due to the nature of the phenomenon, such as a lone-actor threat involving self-radicalisation, for example behind a laptop, it does not remain evident to detect any kind of threat. That is also one of the reasons why foreign intelligence services are not always able to track down lone actors early, which we have seen in the wake of attacks in the nearer or further foreign countries. The OCAD was asked to examine the aspect of the interstate threat to our country, of course following the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. This involved an analysis of old threads, looking at developments in extremism and terrorism, cyber threat, the threat against critical infrastructure, against sensitive sectors, departure movements of war volunteers and other elements in the field of espionage in the context of that conflict. Following the conflict, it was decided to set up a task force to examine the extent to which such interstate threats should be taken into account in the mandate of the OCAD. Then, indeed, the legislation on OCAD, which we have recently amended, will also have to be further amended. As regards the Staff Regulations in the OCAD, as I mentioned earlier, work is being carried out on the development of a unified statute for the staff of the OCAD and the Security of the State and the civilian staff of the ADIV, which was also extended to the staff of the Crisis Centre. The services form a joint core group that has come to a mission statement, comparing the statutes in those services and also looking at relevant statutes at home and abroad. In the meantime, the core group has developed a new statute which is currently being transposed into new regulations. We assume that the consultations will take some time, because they will also have to be discussed with the trade unions. In any case, it is the intention of all concerned to introduce the single statute in the course of 2023. That's ambitious, but we're going for it. The new statute should also create greater mobility between the staff of the various intelligence and security services. This responds to one of the POC's recommendations. Another set of questions was about the crisis center. Are we better prepared for terrorism now? We note that the crisis centre has taken several actions to better prepare for new crises and to better manage an incident. Since the attacks of 22 March 2016, a number of regulatory initiatives have been taken to better prepare our country. For example, the following KBs related to emergency planning and crisis management were revised and developed in depth. I refer as an example to the Royal Decree on the local emergency planning of 16 February 2006, which was meanwhile amended by the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019, which should make the municipal and provincial levels and the role of the mayors and provincial governors clearer in the event of a crisis, of course in cooperation with the national level. In addition, the use of the National Security Portal was explicitly included in the KB Terro, including for the maintenance of general logs in the different cells and for the exchange of information between the actors. In the meantime, the use of the application is already well established in the services concerned. Training in the use of the security portal for crisis management actors, including the public prosecutor and the judicial police, is also organised on a regular basis. It seems clear to me that we are further developing the National Security Portal to meet multidisciplinary needs in support of crisis management. There was a question about the alerting of the population and the BE alert system. We have rolled out that system on a national scale and we continue to promote it. After all, we notice that there are more subscribers after every publicity. That system makes it possible to directly alert the population in the event of a crisis or imminent emergency, both on the basis of voluntary registrations and on the basis of the presence in a risk zone. Since its launch in 2017, BE-Alert has already provided significant added value in over 600 emergency situations, clearly cooperating with the governor's services to convince everyone to board BE-Alert. For example, the crisis centre has organised a series of site visits to discuss with the municipalities that are not yet connected. In addition, a new tender has been launched in relation to BE-Alert, which could result in even lower entry and use costs for the municipalities. We hope, therefore, that the alarm system will be much wider in scope. The new functionality regarding the additional channels for BE-Alert, which we announced a few weeks ago, also adds value for the municipalities. At the moment, all municipalities can connect with BE-Alert via their electronic information boards, so that messages can be placed on information boards of local authorities in addition to sending text messages. We are currently looking at how to spread the messages of BE-Alert on websites or apps such as Waze, so that drivers can also access the information as soon as possible, when that is the issue. The first contacts have already been made with possible partners in order to extend the application, but I assume that we will be able to tell ourselves about technological developments, which will make this possible in the foreseeable future. I come to questions from the MR and the N-VA about the new vision of the National Crisis Centre. The first policy paper already stated that we want to see the National Crisis Centre evolve further towards a multidisciplinary, inter-departmental and inter-federal National Crisis Centre, with strong links to bilateral and multilateral risk and crisis management. In this context, many bilateral and multilateral contacts have recently been established by the Crisis Centre. As an organization, the National Crisis Centre has been gradually established in recent years. In the meantime, the structure has more than proved its usefulness. For example, in the management and coordination of numerous federal crises and interdepartmental operations; in support of crises managed by governors; in the coordination of the protection of VIPs and important personalities, authorities and events (we have some in our country, as this week with the European Summit; the organization of the transition of the Belgian passengers information unites to the National travel target center; and recently for the coordination of all initiatives and measures concerning national resilience. Recruitment and investment are in a crucial phase. Some difficult deadlines, such as the replacement of the ICMS security portal, must be met by 2023. Recruitment must also be a priority, as the pressure of work, with the many crises in recent years, has placed a heavy burden on the staff of this organization. Furthermore, as I said earlier, on the basis of the new mission and vision of the National Crisis Centre, we are working on a new legislative basis for the Crisis Centre. A specific part of the development of the new vision for the National Crisis Centre concerns the move of the NCCN to a single location, adapted to efficient and modern crisis management. That can't really be said of the current location. A building was purchased for this at the end of 2021. The Buildings Management then started work on the concrete installation of the various services of the NCCN in that building. A lot of attention and money go to proper security. Taking into account the tendering deadlines and the work to be carried out, it will not be possible to move to the new location until 2024, but the necessary preparations are already being made. With regard to the integration of the Passengers Information Unit (PIU) and the National Travel Targeting Center within the National Crisis Centre, we can say that the information position of the four security and intelligence services concerned in the field of travel movements in the context of tackling terrorism and serious crime has already improved substantially. The PIU delivers concrete results every day, including in the context of the fight against terrorism. The National Crisis Centre rewritten the National Emergency Plan of Terrorism in 2018 together with the governors and federal partners, including the federal police, the federal prosecutor and the Attorney General. In doing so, account shall be taken of the structures of normal emergency planning. This new KB Terro is supported by the governors, but also by all competent security services. For the organisation of the local level during a federal phase, I have just referred to the 2019 KB. The KB Terro was approved on 18 May 2020 and published on 4 June 2020. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the Director-General of the FGP have issued internal guidelines. There are regular exercises with the National Crisis Centre and all partners. For example, the emergency plan was still used, applied and evaluated in the Jürgen Conings case. Regarding the special emergency and intervention plans or GNIPs, I can report that the governors were asked to update these plans on the basis of the new KB Terro of 18 May 2020. In the meantime, the NCCN has received at least a first reworked version of all provincial BNIPs and is currently analysing them. The NCCN will then deliver that analysis to my cabinet, after which I can express my opinion on its possible approval. The BNIPs of the governors of Limburg, Antwerp, Flemish Brabant, Walloon Brabant and West Flanders have already been approved. The NCCN also received the designs of the High Official of Brussels and of the governors of Hainaut, Liège, Luxembourg, Namur, and East Flanders for nationalization. In order to ensure that the approval process is smooth, the NCCN has provided the necessary feedback to the governors concerned on the emergency and intervention plans received, requesting that a revised version be provided as soon as possible. The redevelopment of the BNIPs has been delayed by the crisis management during the corona pandemic, the floods in the summer of 2021 and the organisation of emergency care for persons fleeing from Ukraine. Then I come to the questions about the exercises and training. At municipal level, the security cell takes the initiative to organise exercises for testing and evaluating emergency planning. Local authorities are required to organise a multidisciplinary exercise at least once a year. Within the framework of the exercise policy, the competent authorities shall draw up a training calendar, in close consultation with the disciplines within the security cell, the other levels of policy and all other interested parties, taking into account all legal obligations. The covid crisis made it difficult to organise exercises in 2020 and most of 2021, but this is now being continued. I would like to give some examples of the large-scale thematic exercises on terrorist and hostage situations. The city of Charleroi organized a field exercise with the Casualty Extraction Team in 2020. The governor's federal services organised an alert exercise in Limburg in 2017. At the beginning of 2020, the NCCN organised the international Piratex exercise, testing a hostage situation during a tablet exercise. On 29 January 2019, the emergency plan terrorism was extensively tested during an exercise in Bruges. During the night of 5 to 6 June this year, a multidisciplinary operational terra-exercise took place on the site at the Brussels-Central station. The management of the search for the missing military Conings, declaring a federal phase, has also made it possible to test the different cells and procedures provided for in the new 2020 National Emergency Plan of Terrorism. The Crisis Centre organised information and training moments in October and November 2020 for the governors and members of the Federal Coordination Committee. Within the Crisis Centre, the necessary training was also provided by the Emergency Planning Service to various relevant departments. Training on emergency planning and on the use of ICMS was also organised by the Crisis Centre for the magistrates and the judicial police. Then I come to Mr Demon's question on the codification of national risk management, emergency planning and crisis management. I have already announced in my policy paper that this would take into account the lessons to be drawn from the management of the federal phase of the floods last summer and the recommendations on the management of the corona crisis. The Crisis Centre will work with a series of workshops and different working groups, so that the different partners will be actively involved from the outset. These workshops will start in the autumn. This also takes into account the assessment of crisis management, but also, of course, the recommendations of various committees. With regard to the issue of the MR on Dir-PC-Ops, in the current context of emergency planning and crisis management, there is an increasing trend towards a multidisciplinary Dir-PC-Ops, as has been further demonstrated by flood management. The essence of the mission of the Dir-PC-Ops is to facilitate coordination between the different disciplines so that their tasks can be carried out in a coordinated, effective and safe manner. The person exercising the function of Dir-PC-Ops distancing himself from the discipline to which he may or may not belong and adopting a global vision, independent of any discipline, paying attention to the needs of all disciplines and to the coordination of the various operational actions. In the first moments of an emergency, it is not always obvious that this is an act of terrorism. A Dir-PC-Ops must, however, be designated quickly to enable rapid operational coordination of the emergency situation. It is therefore not desirable, either by the police or by the authorities concerned, or by practical experience, that the function of Dir-PC-Ops should be assigned only to the police. On the basis of the above considerations, various regulatory changes and initiatives have been taken in the meantime. The Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 provides, since 1 January 2020, that the Dir-PC-Ops fitness certificate must be held in order to be appointed Director of the operational command post. The Royal Decree provides for an automatic Dir-PC-Ops designation system. Article 18 of the Royal Decree provides that "the multidisciplinary function of Dir-PC-Ops shall be exercised by the officer of the rescue zone in whose territory the intervention takes place, present at the intervention site and holding the Dir-PC-Ops fitness certificate, irrespective of the rank of the personnel present in the other rescue zones". If more than one person meets these criteria, they may agree to determine which of them serves as Dir-PC-Ops. In the absence of agreement, the highest-ranking officer shall perform the duties. In the event of equality of rank, the oldest grade shall have precedence. If, immediately or after some time, the incident proves to be linked to terrorism, the competent authority has two additional possibilities to designate another Dir-PC-Ops: it has the power to appoint a member of another discipline, in this case, for example, a member of discipline 3 (the police) or it can determine in advance in the PPUI the discipline that will perform the function of Dir-PC-Ops, in particular in the context of a federal terrorist phase, i.e. when a crisis is the subject of a federal criminal investigation and the facts are qualified by the federal prosecutor as terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack in accordance with the national terrorism emergency plan. Mrs Ingels, with regard to the Incident & Crisis Management System, I can tell you the following. In order to speed up the communication of operational translations of policy cell decisions to the services required to take action, the use of the national security portal was explicitly provided for in the KB Terro, in particular for keeping logs in the different cells and for the exchange of information between them. In the meantime, it has been shown that the use of the application is already well established in the services concerned. Training in the use of the security portal for crisis management actors is also organised on a regular basis. As you know, the ICMS will be replaced by Paragon. A first version for internal use within the Crisis Center goes live in the first half of July. The version that ICMS is actually going to replace for all users is planned to be operational by the end of 2023, so before the end of the contract with the supplier of the current ICMS. It is important to note that, given the opportunity to develop a new platform, the lessons learned from the technical use of the previous platform ICMS and its operational use during crises are taken into account in the construction of Paragon. Users are involved through working groups at different levels. They shall meet regularly for a state of affairs and may submit their observations. The Paragon development team wants to make the application as user-friendly as possible. The intended functionalities have been chosen and developed in such a way that they provide added value to users, both during crisis management - imaging and decision support - as well as in preparation - emergency planning and risk analysis. The Crisis Centre will also provide information and training to teach users how to handle the application as best as possible during the transition. Paragon is also a widely usable platform, built by maximizing the use of standard technology. This is done by the Crisis Centre itself, and that is quite exceptional, especially in comparison with our neighbouring countries. This makes interconnecting much easier. For the purpose of this interconnection, the Paragon team shall also maximise its efforts to identify and facilitate the widest possible user base so that all available information can be shared. No fee will be charged for the use of Paragon. Mr Vandenput, another question concerning the Crisis Centre concerned BelPIU. You rightly expressed concern about the performance of the BelPIU IT system in order to be able to process these large amounts of information. It is correct that the IT system behind BelPIU in general, and its performance in particular, was and will probably remain a major challenge because the underlying system is used very intensively and continuously by the four security and intelligence services operating within BelPIU every day. The funding for its start-up was provided for temporary national credits in 2017 as well as within the credits of a European envelope from the Internal Security Fund. A new project will be prepared for this within the new European envelope. From 2023 onward IT operating appropriations should also be provided for in order to ensure continuity for this system, which is obviously necessary, in conjunction with European credits. Mrs Ingels, another theme was the CBRN emergency plans to be drawn up within the Crisis Centre. You know that such an emergency plan was drawn up in 2018 and that actions were subsequently undertaken to revise and rewrite that contingency plan. This work will continue today with the competent services and authorities. The CBRN Expertise Centre of the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with key partners and operational experts, designed an awareness training course for the first interveners of the different disciplines. This training provides a basic knowledge of the CBRN risks and was approved by the training manager of the relevant partner services, including the FEDPOL, as well as the General Executive Board of Civil Security and the FPS Public Health. The aim is to roll out the training within the federal and provincial training centres as regards the police and fire department, as well as through an online learning platform of the FPS Public Health. The CBRN Expertise Centre also supports the implementation of the National Terrorism Emergency Plan. Support was also provided for the large-scale field exercises. This will, of course, also be the case in the future. Then there are two more questions from Mrs Ingels about the Crisis Centre. As regards the procedure for evacuation and closure of the subway, I would like to say the following. You may well know the operational procedure whereby, in the reflex phase, when the federal phase has not yet been declared or the competent services have not yet met, the Director-General of the Crisis Centre may decide that public transport must be shut down. The Executive Board of the Federal Police Administration must then be informed of this decision by the Crisis Centre. The DAO can then contact all relevant local and federal police forces. Once the federal phase has been declared, the closure of public transport is a decision of the policy cell. This decision is subsequently to be delivered to all operational provincial competent cells and to the departmental crisis cell of the FPS Mobility. This is done through his/her representative in the policy cell. It is, of course, also important to have a good coordination between the OCAD and the Crisis Centre on the tasks of both departments. I can tell you that working arrangements have been made on how the crisis centre's permanence can get in touch with that of the OCAD when threat analyses are to be carried out. We hear from the services that the system works well and that, in this respect, there is a clear division of tasks between the OCAD and the Crisis Centre. Of course, it is the role of the OCAD to draw up threat assessments in the context of terrorism, extremism and organised crime. In the context of the war in Ukraine, this package of tasks was extended, as has just been said, with the interstate analysis. The Crisis Centre then carries out the risk analysis, which is also the basis for national emergency planning and, of course, the coordination of national resilience. Furthermore, the work of the OCAD focuses on the threat assessment for specific cases where the Crisis Centre, on the basis of which it determines the specific measures for a particular infrastructure or persons. As regards obtaining an improved information position, the OCAD Act already imposed obligations on the partner services to share information. That is what we agreed with each other in the recent adjustment. This has not yet been implemented for the Crisis Centre. For this purpose, as for the OCAD in the new Crisis Centre Act, an obligation on the partner services to share information should be introduced. The mutual working relationship between the OCAD and the Crisis Centre is considered to be very good by both departments. If you have any other information, you will certainly tell me. Mrs Ingels had asked a question about threat levels 3 and 4. The POC recommendations provided that all emergency and emergency services would be informed accordingly. The Emergency Terrorism Plan of May 2020 provides that in the event of a threat level 4 at least the pre-alarm of the federal phase is to be announced, with all competent services being immediately summoned to a coordination meeting and, through the permanence of the Crisis Centre, the information flow and the necessary security measures are to be taken. In addition, the Director-General of the Crisis Centre may decide to convene a coordination meeting, even in the event of a threat level 3 and depending on the assessment of the situation. The level of the terrorist threat is, of course, permanently indicated on the homepage of the national security portal, accessible to all. Finally, a few answers with regard to ASTRID. ASTRID will develop a new 5G radio network in the future. Communication is a key element and can make the difference between life and death at crucial moments. The innovative broadband network that ASTRID intends to develop and install in the coming years will be able to safely and reliably send larger amounts of data to and between emergency services in the event of an incident. Also the two types of control rooms 101 and 112, get an upgrade in the plans that ASTRID pushes forward. The technology evolves rapidly: AI, internet or things, smart city, video, drones... There is a huge data increase. All these applications offer opportunities that can also bring great added value to the relief and security services on the ground. Well, that depends on whether they work. I recently attended a demonstration of a smart fire helmet. On the basis of the information in the helmet, instructions could be given on the most appropriate extinguishing mode, even if visibility was extremely minimal, by means of infrared cameras that share information with a post on a site other than that of incident. However, this information must be properly transmitted. However, the TETRA communication we know today is not built to send large amounts of data. A new broadband network for mission-critical communication, which must meet at least the same stringent requirements as the current TETRA network, will bring the potential of these new technologies closer to the aid provider in the future. With the new broadband network, ASTRID opts for a hybrid solution. Because it would be too expensive to build separate antennas and cell towers, as well as because they are becoming increasingly difficult to authorise, the network will use the infrastructure of commercial telecom operators. However, the core of the network, the "brain', remains entirely in the hands of ASTRID. The telecom operator for the emergency and security services thus guarantees the safety, reliability and confidentiality of all communications. The plans for the technological transformation of the radio network and the control rooms are the result of an extensive consultation with all emergency and security services. That is now being worked out. The business plan of ASTRID has yet to be confirmed by a new management contract between ASTRID and the Federal State. In the meantime, the current management contract has been extended. Then I come to the question about the 112 emergency power stations. I have been able to discuss this with you before. The development of the upper provincial architecture has been delayed. This delay is partly caused by the corona crisis, but mainly by the complexity of the software to be developed. By the end of 2021, the development of both the new telephone application and the new dispatching software had advanced sufficiently to start the roll-out of the top provincial architecture. In 2021, Luxembourg's emergency power station 112 was migrated. In the first half of 2022 the emergency power stations 112 of Liège, Namur, Limburg, Hainaut and Antwerp were followed. So now the emergency power stations of Flemish Brabant and East and West Flanders remain. The migration of these plants is planned for 2022/2023. This requires a little more time, because more intensive training of the operators of these plants is required. After all, these are power stations that are still operating today with a telephone application and a dispatching technology that are further away from their new working tools. This means that training is crucial. To sum up, this means that all 112 emergency power stations in Wallonia are already operating with the top provincial software today. I can also mention that the new architecture has already proved its added value, according to information from the field. Not all emergency power stations 112 and 101 are already in the same location. This is already the case for the power stations of West and East Flanders, Flemish Brabant, Limburg, Liège, Namur and Luxembourg. The two remaining plants will follow when the relocation plans relating to these plants become concrete. The covid pandemic has shown that it is not always appropriate to leave the operators of the 112 and the calltakers of the 101 in the same control room. Therefore, the decision was taken to continue to focus on joint housing in the future, with the sharing of equipment and infrastructure, but no longer on sharing the same control room. Then I come to the question of the flood learning committee and the reform of civil protection. This was probably not in the POC's recommendations, but it is related to crisis management. Of course, the Education Committee on the floods also evaluates crisis management, in the light of emergency planning regulations. The research should make it possible to get a picture of the course of the crisis, the evaluation of management and the lessons and recommendations to be drawn from it, as well as the work of all crisis management actors, as indicated in the relevant CRAs. The aim of the research is therefore to draw lessons so that a crisis of this magnitude can be managed even better and, where necessary, constructively improve crisis management, especially by improving communication lines. You also know that at the beginning of this year we set up an advisory committee to ensure the quality of the work. Work meetings have already taken place, in the presence of the academic consortium ULB-VUB, to whom the research was entrusted. The investigation is progressing well. The consortium has carried out many qualitative interviews in connection with flood crisis management, in the case of contacts, but also in the case of key actors in crisis management in disciplines 1, 3, 4 and 5, the aid areas, in the police, civil protection and, indeed, in the case of those involved in communication, because that is essential. The consortium also conducted interviews with the population affected by the dramatic floods. The interim results will be available in July. The final report is expected in November 2022. I will be happy to present that report and any other results to this committee. The final report will include conclusions on the different aspects of crisis management. I am talking about raising awareness of such meteorological phenomena and taking administrative measures, in particular the evacuation measures, their implementation and follow-up by the population and the use and coordination of aid. Mr Pivin mentioned this in his statements to create a culture of crisis. The report will also mention the recommendations of the study for improving, where appropriate, the different aspects of the safety chain in the context of crisis management. The research on the reform of Civil Protection carried out by the universities of Hasselt and Liège now analyses the responses received from the online surveys that questioned the main partners of Civil Protection about their cooperation and expectations regarding the activities of Civil Protection. Further work is being carried out on this analysis, which also includes different assumptions regarding the implantation of barracks, in order to ensure optimum intervention capacity throughout the Belgian territory. The consortium concludes the qualitative research phase that consists in thoroughly interviewing several key partners about the future vision of Civil Protection. We expect the final report of that investigation by the end of July 2022, after which it will be submitted to the administration, which will analyse it and submit its comments. After that, I will also come to you with great pleasure and energy. Mr President, Commissioners, I will conclude. I hope that, following the presentation of 25 May 2022, I have been able to give you further details on the questions you asked me about the POC as well as on the questions arising from the previous committee meeting. Of course, I took the liberty of referring to last week's exchange of views as well as to the statements made by the Minister of Justice on the follow-up of the POC, so that at other times the subject has already been discussed in detail. Thank you very much for your attention. After all, this is a sustained effort. I look forward to a further exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u2	Madam Minister, thank you for this comprehensive explanation. There were over 100 questions, so that indeed needed a slightly longer answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I would like to make a general comment for the future. We are 2022 now and we have got a state of play on the implementation of the POC Terro recommendations, but at some point we will need to consolidate the exercise. We can repeat the exercise in two or four years, but when will it stop? My proposal to the government is to make a general scoreboard, which was already set in motion in the extensive documents we have received, a kind of final exercise on what we have already done, what we will not do, which is a permanent point of attention and then to consider it completed at some point, as a closure of the succession. Otherwise, next year we can ask the same questions again or ask why something was or was not carried out. At some point you need to agree when you will consolidate the exercise. This does not mean that certain themes remain irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u4	Madam Secretary, you have indeed given a lot of answers. We had questions to clarify the texts we received. I can agree with Mrs Ingels' comment. There are indeed a lot of recommendations, including a lot of technical ones, but it is not always clear what kind of global evaluation can be made of them. Are we really in better shape now? I think it is when we look at what is happening, but it is more difficult to assess its impact on the ground. For that, I look at you as a minister, because you can give a general picture. You can see which projects are still in a pilot phase or where an analysis or evaluation is still awaited. Hence my question when will we really know how it stands on the ground, for example, with regard to the recommendations on information sharing? It has been shown that a cultural change is needed from need to know to need to share. Did that cultural change happen yet? Are all the services aware of this? It is good that we can ask the questions and that we see that these recommendations are being worked on. However, on the basis of the note, it is difficult to get a good idea of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u5	Mr. President, I won't be long. Minister, you made an extremely dense and comprehensive presentation. I had communicated it at the beginning: I still had a little methodological remark. Last year, we had been confronted with a very indigestible document of more than 600 pages, which was not fully translated. This time, honestly, it's a beautiful exercise that you did, as your colleague from Justice did a few days ago. Thank you very much. We've had a lot of information. In any case, I had answers to almost all of the questions I had brought to your attention. I would just like to mention the passing of time here. Simply and very briefly, in two aspects. The first, in relation to the Crisis Centre. You indicate that we are moving towards a multidisciplinary, interdepartmental, interregional crisis centre, that contacts already exist, that there is a reflection on the vision of a new crisis centre. I was waiting for the exact answer to the question I asked you about the purchase of the new building at the end of 2021. I was asking you how long this was going to be finalized. You ended up saying it'll probably be in 2024. At the same time, I think the recommendations date back to October 2017. You are not responsible; but that is where I want to talk about the time that passes. It'll be seven years. It has been seven years since the recommendations were made. It's already an aspect. The second aspect remains somewhat enigmatic to me: I want to talk about the answers given to the issue of arms possessions. Here I establish a parallelism between the Conings case, many of which have had to be learned, and the situation – which I know, as I have told the Minister of Justice – of someone who is not only reported as dangerous, but also as representing a risk of a move to act. He owns many firearms at his home, without the governor of the province in which the home is located being informed. That doesn't seem normal to me. You said, but I did not understand your answer, that the system is being developed with the governor, who is kept informed of its proper functioning. I would like that to be the case, but above all I ask that he be kept informed of the existence of someone who is potentially dangerous and who holds weapons. Why the governor? Because he is the only one who can take precautionary measures for the suspension or withdrawal of weapons possession permits. Mr. Van Quickenborne responded with a slightly different element from yours, as he told me: "All people who are on the common database are checked to see if they have a weapons license. The TFL (Task Force Local) discusses the appropriateness of submitting a report to the governor to refer to it." This is already different, since it means that it is assessed on a case-by-case basis whether a governor can be informed of someone's correspondence with all the criteria. Mr. Van Quickenborne added: "For the legal adaptation of the BDC we are preparing, we want to ensure that these mechanisms are triggered automatically." This is, of course, the solution: it is important for the governors to be systematically informed. I then come back to my starting remark about the time that is passing. It's 2022 and I don't understand why we still need to think about systematic information from the governor rather than information on a case-by-case basis. All this to come up with the question of anti-terrorism – which ended up in the media in December – that if we were faced with the same "problem" as in March 2016, we are not at all sure we can deal with it. I know you're doing the impossible, I know you're recruiting staff, I know you're sensitive to Mr. Snoeck's calls, but I don't want to see at some point that we haven't been able to respond adequately to a situation. I can only commit you to speeding up the implementation of all the recommendations that were made in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u6	Madam Secretary, you have answered all our questions very punctually, for which I thank you. I would like to join with what Mrs Ingels has just said, to see how we are going to complete this process, how we are going to make it all operational. You have our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u7	Madam Minister, I remember that we need the federal police and that we should not go down the road whereby the federal police, which is weak today, is even weaker and a regional agenda is being moved on. There are parties here in Parliament who sometimes want the police to be regionalised. That's not the way forward. We need to strengthen the federal police and make them more efficient. That is the way we must go. Your answers all point in that direction. The second message is efficiency. We need to work together on the ground. The culture that Mr Pivin, as well as his colleague, Mayor Bacquelaine, spoke about, which awareness, dealing with calamities, needs to be re-educated. That will be something for the very long term. It's in our heads. We must keep this in the police forces and all other emergency services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u8	Thank you for the comprehensive answers, Madam Secretary. I admire you somewhat, because a study shows that a person uses an average of 25,000 words a day. I wonder if you'll say anything more when you get home today. By the way, you are talking at a rate at which I, as a Limburger, can only be jealous. [[Laughter]] I'm not used to people speaking so fast around me, and I might miss an answer. I would therefore like to ask for some clarification. Is there a budget for the development of automatic access to the crossroads bank? How will this joint database work if we already have the malfunction of the current ANG and the police have no time to supplement it? You said anything related to JDC and JIC would not be received through the Local Task Forces. How are we going to do this? On my question of integrity, you have replied in detail. I have one more question about this. When does it intend to bring this to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u9	Madam Secretary, I am following Mrs Ingels when she says that we need to be able to complete the whole exercise at some point. On the other hand, so many elements are added that it will be difficult to capture that moment. I'm declaring myself. The Minister says that we should focus on computerisation and invest in i-Police. But at the same time we see that this i-Police will also be rolled out in the following years and will only be completed in the next legislature. This means that we must continue to follow these recommendations. We can't wait four years and then see what the result is on the ground. Parliament has the task of following this up on a permanent basis. I am happy that this coordinated table has finally arrived. We have had to wait a very long time for that. Now she's here, a little late, but better late than never. That table of recommendations per Minister of Industry is a good thing and a good way for Parliament to follow up on this matter. Mr Vandenput mentioned the strengthening of the federal police and its regionalisation. Mr Vandenput, of course we want to strengthen the FGP, but that is not the same as centralising all tasks. There is a need to tailor the tasks in each police area. That is why I welcome the current exercise on the scale of police zones. You will also notice, as we do, that in Flanders there is a much greater willingness to merge police zones than in Wallonia. Finally, on JIC and JDC. Madam Minister, if one finds that this project works well in Brussels with good results, what will stop you from rolling out this system over the rest of the country? That is not the case at the moment. Let's get some clarity on this. So much for my comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u10	Mrs. Ingels, I think it's a good idea to land. I suspect that we will look at the actions that still have to be followed elsewhere. Otherwise we will indeed continue to look too much at the past. Mrs. Platteau, we are doing everything we can to invest as much as possible. We'll probably never be able to reach zero risk. Much depends on proper preparation and it is our job to take into account different scenarios, knowing that the world is changing and that the terrorism we could or should have prepared for in 2016 is no longer terrorism today. That has changed for the reasons I have just listed. As has been said, the most important element is cooperation between the various services. Mr. Pivin, since 2017, we've been looking for a building for the Crisis Centre. This research was difficult, as was the preparation of the 2021 decision. The budget is relatively large. In addition, it is intended to consolidate various services in this new building, which is quite large. Several scenarios (purchase, leasing, etc.) have been evaluated by the Régie des Bâtiments. Finally, we really pushed for the purchase of the current building. It was only when the purchase decision was made that it was possible to evaluate and study the necessary equipment and measures in terms of the security and safety of the building. In this regard, the public procurement procedure must be followed, and this takes time. I have the ambition to move in early 2024, but it's not yet sure. Today, we are at the planning stage, but nothing is certain. I was therefore cautious in my speech. With regard to the possession of weapons, I do not know whether my remarks differ from those of the Minister of Justice, because I have not read his answer. The aim is to move towards automaticity of the procedure. If a person in the Common Data Bank applies for a permit, this application must be cancelled immediately. A working group under the direction of the Minister of Justice is working to improve the flow of information to governors. Mr Demon, you joined Mrs Ingels on completing the process. In fact, Mr Vandenput, we should be able to discuss this. That risk culture is really important in thinking about evacuations. It is not just about sending BE-Alerts, but also about making people diets that it is sometimes necessary to act. The reports of the mayors on last year's floods show that they had to go door-to-door to convince people. We need to train those things and definitely keep telling them. As far as the crossroads bank is concerned, Mr Moyaers, the budgets for this are part of the i-Police budget. To respond to Mr Depoostere's intervention, that is a big project. Although we are already implementing what we can, but the whole roll-out, in which the databases are centralised via i-Police, takes time, because we are already working on this and also because we are consulting the local and federal police on their priorities for the applications that need to come first. I would prefer to give just a timetable that is clearly set rather than calling unrealistic deadlines, to which I shall have to come back later. Mr Moyaers, as regards access to the crossroads bank for the security of the State, the budgets have been earmarked for this purpose. As far as the timetable for bringing integrity policy to Parliament is concerned, I cannot give you any concrete details yet. I'll take the question and you can remind me in the next few weeks. Mr Depoostere, in relation to i-Police and the scale increase, we know today's situation with the voluntary mergers. The debate has already started on the ground and I do not wish to turn it into a Community matter. We need to look for levers to reach the best possible organization, both for the local authorities and for the donations from the federal government. Finally, the evaluation of JIC and JDC has been carried out and the intention is to further roll out the lessons learned from it to the other FGPs. We are already in half the year, so I do not know whether all this will happen this year, but certainly in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-21-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic824x.u11	Thank you for the additional answers and explanations, Madam Secretary. I don't suppose anyone has any more questions. Thank you again for coming.
