ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked a number of questions about this. It dates from some time ago, but is therefore no less important. I refer to the Committee of 9 March 2022. There you confirmed to me that, at the start of the works, Infrabel drew up a site description of the neighbouring infrastructure. Such a place description is then provided in every specifications by default. You told me that, and that brings me to a number of specific questions. May I assume that a place description was drawn up for the works in Diepenbeek prior to and on the initiative of Infrabel and/or the contractor? What is the exact formula that Infrabel provides in its specifications for this purpose? Can you explain the location description that was drawn up in Diepenbeek? What houses and infrastructures were involved, within what perimeter? What criteria were used? In your reply, you indicated that you were convinced that Infrabel and her contractor will take the necessary steps to rectify the situation in Diepenbeek. May I know exactly what you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u2	Mr President, Mr Raskin, discussions are currently underway between Infrabel and the municipality of Diepenbeek in order to work out a balanced solution. That's why Infrabel wishes to be careful at the moment to share information about the local situation. The Minister needs Infrabel to have more precise information. It is true, therefore, that a place description was also drawn up before the start of these works. The exact wording Infrabel uses for this, I will have you delivered in writing. All homes in the vicinity of the yard were visited. The contractor shall, of course, be deemed to follow the specifications. Infrabel, together with the contractor, always makes every effort to seek a balanced solution in consultation with the local government concerned. An example of a measure to achieve this can be the carrying out of additional studies, such as noise measurements at critical points.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I regret that no information is shared. I have already asked several questions about this dossier. People are in trouble there, with torn houses and the like. That's not funny. That is why I think it is necessary to provide some information. When I ask for specifications, I'm not allowed to see them. Here I am not asking for an integral document, but just some explanation, but even that is too much to ask for for Infrabel. I ask myself a lot of questions about that. Anyway, it is what it is. You will provide me with the exact wording in the specifications in writing. Can I assume that this will be delivered within a very short period of time and that I will not have to wait for weeks, as my question dates from 11 March 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u4	That will be sent by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u6	Minister, you have recently made statements on recruitment policy in the rail sector. In particular, you think that the European rail system does not employ enough women. In the case of SNCB, for example, we see that only one fifth of the female staff are female. So you are in favour of more diversity in the workforce. It would be nice if we could effectively attract more female railway workers. However, a problem in recruitment policy is also the lack of language frameworks for railway undertakings. SNCB not only recruits too few women, but also too few Dutch speakers. There is an unfulfilled legal basis for this last issue, unlike for the first problem. Does your view of the recruitment policy for the railways also support the need to provide a language framework for railway companies, as required by law? What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u7	Mr Roggeman, recruitment is indeed an important issue for me, as well as for the appearance of SNCB and Infrabel in this twenty-first century. This committee has on several occasions dealt with language legislation, in particular the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, as is also the case with the communications of SNCB on trains and platforms and in stations. In connection with the language frameworks, I recently asked the management of HR Rail in a letter to make the necessary preparations to comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that an initiative has finally been taken. I will be happy to request the letter to HR Rail and I am curious about the progress in the file. Hopefully HR Rail succeeds effectively in fulfilling his legal mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u9	Minister, the VDAB contributes to the payment of train tickets for its job seekers who are going to apply. Until recently, applicants had to pay 1 euro for their train journey to the application. Soon the train trip will be completely free. In this way, the Flemish government is making efforts to further increase the level of effectiveness. In your reply to my written question on tariff diversification, you stated that there are several pilot projects and studies under the new management contract which we will be discussing in detail next week. I would like to ask you a few questions today anyway. How far does the system of tariff diversification go? What adjustments to the rates are planned in peak or off-peak hours in order to increase the spread of the occupation? You mentioned earlier that a reservation system was also being investigated. What's the status there? The commendable initiative of the Flemish Government and the VDAB leads to a Community diversification in charging, as the contribution of the VDAB applies only to Flemish applicants. That's a remarkable scoop. Are you in favour or opposed of such a regional variation in the charging of transport tickets by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u10	This is not a tariff diversification, but a different refund in the regions. That's something else and doesn't depend on the federal government, I guess. Mr Roggeman, the development of tariff diversification is indeed part of the discussions on the public service contract currently under negotiation. So much will depend on the framework we want to create with that new contract. It is now clear to everyone that SNCB wants to conclude the discussions. Tariff diversification is a way to convince customers to take the train and leave the car standing. Attractive rates are equally important, but it is important to compensate SNCB when this has a financial impact. Of course, the offer of cooperation with the VDAB also exists for the employment services in our country. SNCB is not in a position to do so. It is up to the services concerned to step into this or that extension of service. SNCB is in any case in contact with the partners concerned in the three regions. Your question about the reservation system seems out of date. SNCB has already answered that question and has tested the system with the Coast Express last summer. The test has confirmed that a reservation system with a mandatory reservation does not meet the expectations of the majority of passengers, by significantly limiting the flexibility of such a system. No further projects are currently planned on mandatory train reservations in the national service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u11	I'm surprised at your answer. You refer to the ongoing discussions on the management contract. SNCB is prepared to conclude the talks. Of course, two weeks ago, the Board of Directors of SNCB approved the present document. Your answer has probably been prepared some time ago and has not been updated. Indeed, it is clear that a reservation system does not meet the expectations. What additional tariff diversification will be designed? When introducing different tariffs depending on the hour of the day, the corresponding checks should be adapted accordingly. People should therefore be encouraged to take the train at the right time, in accordance with their ticket. You do not take a position on a contribution from the VDAB to the refunds. In any case, it is an interesting precedent that is being created here. The practice of regional transport companies also shows that decentralisation can also be very interesting in terms of pricing and tariff autonomy for refining mobility policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have asked a number of questions to your colleague responsible for Home Affairs about illegal migration by train. Apparently, in recent years, thousands of findings have been made of facts related to illegal migration in so-called railway-related places, i.e. on the train, on the rails or in station environments. These figures appear to be rising. Your fellow Minister Verlinden spoke of joint actions with foreign police and the railway police. I asked her questions about that. However, she obviously shares with you the responsibility for safety on the railways, which is why I would also like to put these questions to you. Securail officers are not agents in the strict sense of the word, but officials. Will they be given the specific task of paying extra attention to possible signals of transmigration via the railways? What are the directives in this respect? Do you see the urgency of the issue of illegal migration, some of which turn out to be railway-related places? Will you take action together with your colleague responsible for Home Affairs? What can we expect in this respect? Are you also planning initiatives with your fellow ministers responsible for mobility of our neighbouring countries to develop a cross-border approach to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u13	Mr Roggeman, my answers do not differ from those of the previous Minister for Mobility. Like trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration is a matter for the police and the Department of Home Affairs. These phenomena are priorities of the railway police, which are not within my jurisdiction. It is therefore up to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, to take any additional measures that are necessary or useful in this area. SNCB does point out that it remains in contact with the police forces to discuss the various problems and that it examines possible additional measures in so far as they fall within its competence. SNCB's mission is to carry passengers with a valid ticket and to ensure the safety of passengers within the limits of its competence. This means that the staff will call the police if there are reports of disturbance of law and order requiring police action and reporting the presence of groups. This safety-based consign applies to all groups and is also applied to, for example, football supporters or protesters. By far the majority of infringements recorded by SNCB staff relate to tickets. SNCB and the police are already taking numerous actions against ticket fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, SNCB's mission is to ensure the safety of its passengers, but the maintenance of order in and around trains is, of course, largely done by people from Securail. It would be a good idea to train them on this issue, in cooperation with the federal police and with the railway police, and to draw their attention to the problems identified by the Minister of the Interior. This is certainly the case in view of the scale in which this occurs, because on an annual basis it is not a matter of a few dozen, but a few thousand facts recorded through the railways. We must not be blind to that. I regret that there is no further initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u15	Mr President, I do not think I will make full use of the speaking time allocated to me, even though I am expected to attend other meetings. You know how it is in the Chamber, it's always busy and we always haven't enough time. Minister, we have discussed the shortage of staff on a number of occasions, both in plenary and in this committee. The problem is well known. In recent months, rail traffic has had a lot of problems, such as the abolition of trains and shut down connections, due to a shortage of staff. Traveller organisations have already mentioned this, including TrainTramBus has already protested. On the weekend of 14 and 15 May, SNCB was forced to abolish the train between Mechelen and Sint-Niklaas for the whole weekend because there was unexpectedly insufficient staff. Since 23 May, peak hour trains have also been cancelled that normally run between Herentals, Lier, Antwerpen-Central and Brussels. In short, it is about large axles within the Flemish window, where most shuttle traffic is concentrated. Minister, how was it decided on which lines trains were cancelled and reduced service because of the shortage of staff? Who made that decision? Was it an autonomous decision of SNCB and was it forwarded to you? Why are trains just being cut off on those busy lines? Is it purely the unavailability of personnel that is the cause or do other criteria apply? At the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 11 May, you said that you were going to sit down with SNCB, to discuss the state of play and to discuss possible solutions. Did that meeting take place? What were the conclusions? Are there any short-term measures to address this problem? Meanwhile, we've been a month, but there doesn't seem to be any improvement in sight. If the problem is entirely dependent on staff availability, can you indicate the current lead time of the vacancies currently available to SNCB and Infrabel? How many employees do you need with SNCB and Infrabel to realize the railway supply according to your Railway vision 2040? A strike also took place on 31 May, in order to increase the pressure on policy to find a solution to these personnel problems. The system of minimum services has been in place for several years. In previous strikes, that system turned out to be doing its job. Here, too, we saw that rail traffic worked mostly in different regions. The procedure provides that employees are asked to indicate in advance whether they are stopping or not. How many staff have reported to cease on 31 May? How does this relate to the total number of employees? Are there any people who have stopped without prior notice? I would like to get an overview with a bit of detail on this. The law on minimum service provision requires railway undertakings to evaluate after the strike and, if necessary, draw conclusions on future strike commitments. How is this evaluated? What adjustments are being made? What lessons will be learned as a function of a possible future strike commitment? In the past, rail strikes have sometimes been accompanied by illegal actions, such as rail tracks and rail infrastructure blockades. Of course, that has little to do with social action. I'd like to get your insights on that as a custody minister. Have such facts been recorded this time or could this have been avoided? What sanctions are indicated in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u16	Minister, in the context of the budget debate, I have already spoken to you about the strike. It was a successful strike, the biggest strike in years at SNCB. That shows there's a big problem. On the day of the strike last Thursday, the MR asked in plenary to tighten up the minimum service. We already have a minimum service, Minister. There is already a minimum service and we ask for maximum service. We ask that there should be maximum service for travellers, but also that there should be sufficient staff to do the job properly. Minister, over 5,000 jobs have disappeared in five years. All sectors are understaffed. That's what I heard during the strike. I went to three pickets and the same thing was said everywhere: there are too few hands and the workload is too high. That's what all people told me. It's about 5,000 jobs in five years. With the train escorts, the train drivers, in the signal houses, at the counters and at Securail, the workload is too high everywhere. How will you ensure that trains are no longer abolished due to a shortage of staff at SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail? Will Vivaldi free up additional budgets to invest in the railroad? Yesterday, when we discussed the budget adjustment, we heard that SNCB's budget is being reduced by 65 million. The unions are asking for 4,000 additional recruitments. That is not an absurd requirement, given the 5,000 jobs that have disappeared in five years. How do you feel about this? Do our railway companies have enough resources to recruit 4,000 additional people? Do you really still have faith in the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u17	I will be brief, Minister, because the problem has already been sufficiently outlined. We have also had a topical debate earlier on the abolition of trains, the lack of staff and the current malaise within SNCB. What measures have you or SNCB's management taken since our previous exchange of views on the removal of trains on 11 May? How will SNCB ensure that the transport offer can again be guaranteed at 100% and by when? How many additional staff will you need to realize your 2040 Railway Vision and guarantee the service to passengers? What is the financial damage suffered by SNCB as a result of the cancellation of train connections due to the lack of staff? What impact do you think that negative things, such as the removal of trains and the lack of staff, have on the image of SNCB? To what extent will that affect the encouragement of people to take the train and perhaps to be able to recruit additional staff? Finally, what measures will be taken to compensate for the loss of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u18	Minister, I have asked you several times in recent weeks about the dramatic situation of railway personnel. On 31 May, the SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail staff unions went on strike. This strike was followed very strongly, as witnessed by the disruptions of rail traffic and at railway stations, which took place throughout the country. The follow-up to this strike means that the answers you are sending to Parliament and to the railway representatives are insufficient. Will you continue to answer in the same way or will you finally recognize that this language of wood is hurtful to its recipients? How did you react to the May 31 strike? Have you made any proposals to the railwaymen? Are they sufficient, according to them? Will operating budgets be revised upwards? What do you guarantee to railway personnel about their pensions? Will the conditions of engagement of staff be facilitated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u19	Minister, you know that I am a strong supporter of public transport. I take the train to Brussels every day. At the moment there is no worse commercial for the train than what is happening in the Kempen. So I took the train last night, after an inspiring visit to Infrabel, where we could see what our railroad people should do. Because the train had too much delay, the final destination was suddenly changed. People who thought they could drive to Turnhout had to get off early. Then one hears a lot of incomprehension from travelers. The frustration will be hugely high. I understand that. If you look at the figures, you will see more than 4,000 abandoned trains in February, 3,700 in March and 3,800 in April. That's almost double what we normally see. The causes seem to be familiar. The staff shortages of SNCB and the years of recruitment and savings of the previous government are now avenging. That's very clear. 1,300 new employees have to be found in a short space of time. At Infrabel we heard yesterday that certain profiles are not readily available and are very difficult to find. Those who are accepted must first follow a course of training. So there are certainly problems which have been made structural by decisions taken by previous governments, but they do need to be resolved. We must ensure that the traveller wants to take the train again and leave the car on the sidelines. How will you encourage SNCB to tackle its staffing problems? How will you ensure that these have less impact on the rail service, and that they do not lead to additional lines being abolished in certain regions? In the short term, how will SNCB improve communication on potential problems and abolished lines? In what way will you encourage SNCB to take away the displeasure from the travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u20	Mr President, Minister, everyone knows by now that I am from the Kempen. Maybe my accent makes my origins clear, too. Yesterday there was occasional laughs, but at the moment there is nothing to laugh with. I have already invited you to the Kempen so that you can see how dramatic our region is with the trains and the journeys to Brussels. We have two car strades in our region which are unfortunately the traffic champions of Belgium. We are therefore really dependent on public transport. I'm really pissed off. I get a lot of phones these days from people who have been taking the train for years to work near the North Station, but who are tired of taking the car now. They'd rather be stuck in traffic because they just can't get home. During the last month there were 22 trains on the Turnhout-Binche route, six of which were on time and one train was abolished. Of the P-trains, five of the fifteen trains were abolished. Besides, there's no communication. People stand on the platform, watch time pass and see how time comes up every time. In time, there is no communication and the train is abolished. We talk very often here about modal shift. Local authorities do that, too. They invest a lot to reach the modal shift. However, it is sad to see how the train supply in the Kempen goes. Our region is a moving railway museum, with trains of more than fifty years old. Delays and thus missing connections are more the rule than the exception. The shortage of staff therefore means that the scarce trains are being removed. Sometimes we ask ourselves whether you are taking our region seriously. As mentioned here, SNCB is also suffering from a shortage of staff, as is the case with many companies in our country. That's conscience. There are hundreds of vacancies that can't be filled. At the same time, we see in our country that there are still a lot of workers who can hardly be accompanied to a job. What also surprises me is that the personnel problems are being passed on to the Kempen and North Limburg. During the week of 23 May 2022, it was announced that many trains would be temporarily cancelled, only in those regions. That's disappointing. Without drivers and without train escorts, the trains are obviously unable to drive. I am therefore asking myself questions about the railway ambitions that you wish to achieve and which I can only welcome. That too will be a huge challenge. So I call on you to put your shoulders under the activation policy to get everyone working. Infrabel showed a number of very innovative things about an efficiency exercise yesterday. You can see what's possible there. Finally, put your shoulders under the problems of the Kempen. I also have other questions. How long will the temporary withdrawal of service in the Kempen last? What measures will you take to ensure that the necessary vacancies are filled by the railways? Are the trains that do drive reinforced and expanded so that there is sufficient capacity to take the traveller comfortably to his destination? Mrs Buyst just mentioned that the trains that do run also have problems. What will you finally do for our region?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u21	I come to the Minister for the fourth or fifth time on this subject. One of the first times was in the plenary session for the Easter recess, in the month of March. Then it was about the repeated, daily deletions on line 12, i.e. the S32 train, which had been taken out of service for a while because of staff shortages. Then the train would run again, but he didn't drive more than it did. These deletions then continued to the high-speed line and the connection to the station Noorderkempen, where the P-trains were suddenly removed. The P-train to Herentals was also cancelled. This is all due to the human resources problem. We know that by now. In the beginning there were mainly unexpected deletions and the passenger had to wait daily for the train to run or not. Afterwards, they switched to structural deletions, because of staff shortages. Announcements of P-trains were carried out, both towards Noorderkempen and towards Herentals. Even that cannot prevent other trains from being cancelled almost every day because of the unexpected absence of train drivers or train drivers. That situation is really problematic. By taking certain P-trains out of service in a structural manner, they were seeking an offer that is more limited, but more stable, more reliable and predictable. That is a good objective in itself, but that objective is clearly not being achieved, and it is still not. However, in April the answer was that some 200 new train escorts had been recruited. They attended a training course, which would last for four months. As of the end of May, early June, the situation would thus be resolved. Today, as early as the beginning of June, we have to say that this is not yet the case. Minister, the very logical and concrete question is when there will be enough new staff on the train to finish the training, so that the problems can be solved. What is the absenteeism rate of the train crew, the so-called rolling staff, both drivers and train supervisors? The figures I hear about this give me grey hairs, as they are many times higher than normal absenteeism in average workers. I hear it goes up to 14 or 15 %, while the average is around 8 %. That also raises the question of what is going on. Doesn't there play anything other than unexpected absenteeism? I hear colleagues Verhaert and Buyst say that there is no worse advertising for trains than the current service. In this way, the track cannot be the backbone of our mobility. There's gonna be a lot of angry phones coming from people threatening to take the car back. Today, the service clearly does not meet the customer's expectations when purchasing his or her subscription. Mr Minister, can the traveller obtain a concession for this? I mean that separately from the application for compensation, for which the traveller must record the delays on a daily basis. I believe that a number of travellers, mainly from Antwerp, the Kempen and Noorderkempen, have been tortured in such a way that any commercial concession from SNCB is the logic itself and at least appropriate. Mr President, that is all I have to say, and I have once again expressed my frustration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had an interesting working visit with the committee to Infrabel. We have spoken with railway workers, engineers and people who monitor train traffic in central dispatching. It was particularly educational and exciting to be able to talk to those people. These people all have a great heart for the railways, that's what people see. It is really a pity that we have to have a topical debate on this subject at a time when a government has finally taken office with a minister who also has a great heart for the trail. This government has an ambitious vision, which was recently approved. Minister, you will shortly be presenting the new management contracts, together with new financial proposals, to the Council of Ministers. We know that you are very ambitious. In theory, we're good. In terms of ambition, we are good. It is a pity, however, that we must all note here that, despite the great support for this ambitious policy, we must consider a practice in which there is a great deal of tension between what we all want to achieve and what can be achieved. This is largely due to chronic staff shortages. It is a shame that we have to abandon rail passengers, loyal commuters, people who have been taking the train every day for years. The abolition of trains, for weeks or months, is of course not a good signal. The trade unions pointed out to me that specific measures had already been negotiated with the management in 2019. One of the commitments agreed was that management would proactively ensure that staff needs are adequately and consistently met as part of the transport plan. That is clearly not the case today. In any case, it does not succeed, which also has concrete consequences. I refer to a question tabled by my good colleague, Mr Verduyckt, who cannot be present because he is on mission with the Committee on Defence. It's about his region. The two direct peak hour trains between Brussels and Neerpelt have been abolished from Monday 23 May. My good colleague wonders how long that will take. What's the cause? Can that be met? That's anecdotal, of course, it's just exemplary. However, it seems to be happening in many places in Flanders. I hear colleagues from the Kempen refer to this very often. It also happened frequently during the work visit yesterday. My ultimate question is therefore, Minister, how you intend to succeed, and in particular when, in order to make the approved ambitions of the railway vision and the additional investment in rail, which is to lead to better services, tangible in practice for everyone who wants to take the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u23	Minister, for the past three months, the number of trains cancelled has been increasing and there appears to be a deterioration in punctuality. In normal times, train removals and delays are discouraging elements for passengers, but they are even more so in the current context, when public transport becomes the only option in terms of fuel prices. We saw it during the covid and we see it with the war in Ukraine, in times of crisis, the responsibility of the public authorities increases as citizens face increasing adversity. What is true for public health is also true for public transport. Minister, you inherited a department decimated by a policy of blind austerity, without any sense of anticipation and vision in the medium term. This policy was carried out on the backs of railway workers, considered to be adjustment variables, a rope on which we thought we could pull over and over again. A pandemic and a war later, it did not take much time for yesterday's choices to impact today's travellers. To the point that the recruitment of railway workers is in a vicious circle: the fewer railway workers, the worse the working conditions, the less attractive the employment becomes and the more complicated it is for SNCB and Infrabel to attract new talent. It's time to understand that if you want to invest in rail, you also have to invest in railway workers. It's a short-term emergency, but it's also a long-term one. Minister, how do you explain the increase in train removals and delays? Are you related to the insufficient number of railway workers? What will the SNCB and Infrabel do to improve the status of railway workers and make them more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I share your frustration at seeing trains deleted or unfilled, but it is just as great as my willingness to change things. The actions taken since the beginning of the legislature are in this direction. Engaging and training new staff takes a little more time in a period of co-vid, as does the negotiations within the government around Vision 2040 and the future public service and performance contracts that I will have the pleasure of presenting to you in the main lines next Wednesday. We are moving forward in the direction and ambition of the government to make the train the backbone of tomorrow's mobility, despite a one-off difficulty, in a specific region that you have cited and for which you have already called me several times, Mr Van den Bergh, difficulty due to a lack of staff and a slightly higher number of patients than in other springs or depots in the territory. I am not aware of the reasons for this, but we are working to find solutions through recruitment and training of workers who will gradually take up their duties so that trains which are temporarily immobilized can be brought back into service. I would like to thank you for your questions about the staff of SNCB, which is a very important subject for me and which we have indeed discussed at our last meeting in this committee. The staff of the railway companies are the cornerstone of the provision of services to rail passengers, which we must never forget. You also know that, together with the entire government, I have strong ambitions for the railway line included in the Railways 2040 and which are part of the ongoing negotiations with SNCB and Infrabel on the new public service contract and the performance contract respectively. In fact, we will be able to discuss the latter very soon, namely Wednesday, in more detail. The aim of both the Railway Vision and the new contracts is to provide a long-term perspective for rail, passengers and staff, as well as the resources needed to make that reality. In the context of this ambition, I naturally share your concerns, as well as your dissatisfaction with the current staffing problems and the impact on services in different regions, such as the Kempen. After all, it's the train traveler who's so screwed up and it's bad publicity for the railroad. That is the opposite of what I want as Minister of Mobility. During the last month, my cabinet met several questions about the problems with services, especially on the line between Antwerp and Brussels, but also further, for example in Limburg. I have spoken to SNCB on several occasions, and I guarantee you that I will continue to do so. As Minister for Mobility and Travellers, I have urged you to continue monitoring the possibilities for improvement in the short term. For example, I asked SNCB to have the trains that can be insured with the maximum capacity. We should not be cutting back on services. After all, the train is the future and our ally, all the more so in these times of unprecedented increases in fuel prices. As for last week's strike, the train offer was established on the basis of the strike intentions, as laid down in the law. Consequently, it was not identical to that of the previous strikes. No illegal activity was reported. The trains that were planned also drove as planned. In total, a quarter of the trains have been driven, including one IC train on three and one S and L train on five. Most P trains didn't drive. In the provinces of Liège, Luxembourg and Namur, there was no train because there was insufficient staff available in the signal houses of Infrabel. SNCB, too, is obviously not happy with this situation and, like us, wants the services to be fully guaranteed, with respect for the rights and well-being of the entire workforce. SNCB and Infrabel are therefore not left behind. In 2022 about 1,300 new employees will be recruited. Of these, more than 1,100 are recruitments for the specific railway professions, for which SNCB replaces one-to-one in the case of the same workload. These new forces must ensure that there is sufficient staff to ensure the planned train service. These include 215 train drivers, 259 train escorts, 321 technicians, 105 commercial servants, 74 security officers, 78 station staff, 55 bundle staff and some twenty traffic information officers. Between 1 January and 30 April 2022, 139 new train escorts started their training and certification. This will gradually reduce the pressure on operational staff. These new colleagues at SNCB are currently undergoing their training of 4.5 months and will be gradually deployed as chief from June, i.e. this month. SNCB will recruit the remaining train escorts in the following months. As you can see, SNCB is indeed taking serious steps to remedy this personnel problem. The personnel impact up to 2040 has not yet been calculated, as the train offer for that long period is not yet known, but the ambition is there. SNCB is rightly concentrating on the next ten years, the period to be included in the public service contract. In its business plan, an estimate has been made of the need to increase the number of staff needed to increase the supply of trains, but efficiency gains are also foreseen. In addition, there will be a large number of staff in the next ten years due to retirement and they will also need to be replaced. There is a real challenge within the SNCB as well as within Infrabel to be able to recruit new agents in careers that are absolutely exciting because they are diverse, with job security and opportunities for wage and continuing training. But we have to find these candidates. This is even more difficult in some regions than in others, and this issue is not just about SNCB and Infrabel. An average lead time for recruitment is difficult to give. It depends on the professional categories and the recruitment tests to be carried out. Staff recruited during Job Days and therefore recruited on the same day can usually start with SNCB after a few weeks. If several tests are required, e.g. written tests, oral tests and medical examinations, it may take a few months for the vacancies to be filled. For bottleneck professions in this tight labour market, vacancies for technicians can sometimes be open for a long time before we find good candidates. Mr Roggeman, in order to ensure train service, the presence of both the driver and the train supervisor is necessary for obvious safety reasons. As SNCB is currently suffering from absenteeism in certain regions, it has no choice but to revise its train supply by removing certain trains. This problem arises mainly in some larger depots in the district of Noordoost, as in Antwerp. I would point out that these are P trains which are not put into service with prior notice and that at least three out of four trains are provided, in particular for connections to Brussels. In addition, through changes in the internal organisation, SNCB has been able to redistribute the workload in order to reduce the risks of additional abolitions. This is monitored very closely in real time in order to minimise the impact on passengers. One of the initiatives taken by SNCB is the so-called Job Days, where applicants are given the opportunity to get to know all aspects of a job on the railways. The railways are an attractive employer for many people. One works close to home, has nice colleagues, as you have seen at Infrabel. I always see that when I visit there or when I take the train. There are exciting career opportunities in a meaningful job, in which solutions for the mobility of the future are worked out. I myself recently took part in such a day in Brussels. On 18 June 2022 a new Job Day for technicians is planned in the workshop of Ostend. More information about this and other actions can be found on the SNCB website. With regard to Infrabel, there is Infrabel Academy, which is a magnificent tool to enable the infrastructure manager to address the shortage of candidates, for certain profiles, by training directly and according to the needs of people seeking employment, regardless of their age, training or social background. It is also important that Infrabel be an inclusive employer. Among Infrabel's most sought-after technical profiles are employees responsible for the maintenance of railway infrastructure, such as maintenance agents, electro-mechanical and mechanical technicians, welders and engineers. Mr Roggeman, Mrs Vindevoghel, you know that since October 2022 I have been putting all my weight into getting the train back on track. Of course, we must also have the necessary resources to deal with this. I have already managed to mobilise more than EUR 1.7 billion in additional resources with the government in this legislature. Mr Arens, it is clear that these additional investments are also for the benefit of SNCB and Infrabel staff. I am very regularly in contact with the representatives of the trade union organisations, who share our ambition for the train and support this desire to improve things and give programming to ten years in the framework of future contracts. I remind you that the current contracts date back to 2012. I also remind you of the linear savings decided in the past, which I am trying to correct, by also finding ad hoc solutions to the difficulties that we encounter regularly. However, an increase in resources does not mean that SNCB and Infrabel cannot make efficiency gains and can drive more trains at the same time. One doesn't rule out the other. This is an essential part of my vision of rail transport in our country. Mr Roggeman, you are calling for safety within the rail system. In any event, safety is a priority for both myself and the railway companies, on which no compromise can be reached. The safety of staff and passengers is central to any decision. In the short and longer term, therefore, both SNCB and Infrabel are carrying out a series of actions to address the shortage of labour in certain sectors. The situation is constantly monitored. I, too, give the necessary impetus, assisted by my cabinet. Both myself and both railway companies are well aware of the challenges facing the railways in terms of personnel. However, we are determined to find a solution together so that the staff necessary for the running of trains can be recruited. That is in the interests of so many people who take or want to take the train every day. If we want to drive additional trains, which is my intention, we will not do so without additional staff. We are working to ensure this recruitment and to give SNCB all the necessary resources to do so. I think that is the best answer we can give to workers who are legitimately worried about the future. They can see that we want to give a positive future to the train, the SNCB and Infrabel. We are gradually giving ourselves the means to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u25	Thank you very much for this answer, which I will describe as detailed. I shall return the floor to the colleagues who have spoken, at least to those who are still there. I'll start with Mrs. Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u26	Minister, do you know the song No words, but deeds? That's what people are asking. People don't want words, they want deeds. They want there to be hands and there's a budget. That's what the staff are asking. I fear that what is now on the table will not be enough if I see what is now planned for SNCB. There are 5,000 people less than 5 years ago and, as has already been said here, there were 4,121 abolished trains in February, 3,704 in March and 3,882 in April. Those are the hard numbers. That's not the modal shift we want. You also want a modal shift, but if we want it, there will have to be more resources and staff. I listened to Mr Gilson of Infrabel yesterday. He asks 900 more for Infrabel, but he already talks about reducing staff effectiveness in the long term. We support the actions of the trade unions, which demand that 4,000 people be added to organise modal shift in rail transport. If we are to achieve the climate objectives, we need additional investment and resources for trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Our points of view are similar. You acknowledge the frustrations we are expressing here and say that you are also concerned with those frustrations. You say that this is not in line with what you want and that the traveler is the ultimate duped in this whole story. As far as solutions are concerned, I hear about the same thing as the previous ones, with the recruitment of staff in the first instance. That takes time, we can't get around that. Those people need training and they won't all succeed, so that's a slow process. I am convinced that this will not be the great solution. There must be additional efforts to this end. There are, of course, initiatives and people are trying to find staff through Job Days. That's not easy. Yesterday, we heard from Infrabel that the Job Days produce little results. What matters to me is the duped traveler. I didn't hear you say much about that. However, there were several colleagues who asked you for compensation. I think that it is worth considering whether these doomed travellers can be compensated in a simple way and without having to go through a whole procedure. Why do I say that? Acquiring a new customer is commercially very difficult. But getting back a client you lost is even harder. We must try to avoid this and the disabled subscribers who do not receive the services they have paid for should be compensated in a simple way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u28	Minister, it is already positive that you are on the same page as parliamentarians about the lack of staff. There are too few staff and this cannot last. If you want to see the trains rolling, I hope you will do everything you can so that the trains can run. And, as I have already told your colleague who once answered me in your place in plenary, don't tell me about this Vision 2040! You know that a vision is the perception of the world by sight, by the action of seeing. It is to represent, in spirit, a confused vision of the future. Frankly, as far as Vision 2040 is concerned, it is very good to talk about 2040, but we are in 2022 and we have huge problems for which we expect solutions. To have a real project for 2040, we need to have concrete actions today in 2022 and that is where we are waiting for you. I'll even tell you I trust you. But I am counting on you to fight harder in this government to get the necessary funds to go faster, further. At that time, perhaps I could say that the Brussels-Arlon line is no longer the line to go back in time and that it is now a line with a higher-speed train. I am counting on you, minister, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u29	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is clear that a number of passengers have run out of patience and that we must ensure that they take the train instead of reconsidering the car. That can only be done if it can be done comfortably and easily. Some say that you share the frustrations and that you want to bet on more trains. You have also proposed a number of short-term solutions, such as extending the running trains, which is very good. In the longer term, more staff can be recruited. It is important for SNCB to ensure that it continues to offer a pleasant workplace, with feasible work schedules and sufficient rest periods. We must also work on this. Finally, after those months of frustration, the best compensation for passengers is a train company that is really punctual and on time in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u30	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. Of course you recognize the situation. Everyone in this room has dealt with that on a number of occasions. You are quoting a number of measures. At the moment, these measures are clearly not yet in place. This morning, the train drove half the capacity. If we keep doing this, this will soon be enough. After all, people are pulling out. I hear people will consider taking the car, but there are people who are already taking the car. They have more guarantee of getting home by car than by train. It won't be obvious. Our society has been thoroughly shaken by corona. A lot of people have dropped out and work from home. Now, if people are gonna drop out of frustration, we really need to step up. I hope that the measures proposed will really be implemented. There must finally be a proper offer, including in the Kempen. During the interesting visit to Infrabel the PIP was discussed. Maybe that can also be rolled out for the Kempen. At the moment that does not exist for the Kempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, which, as we know, was full of voluntarism, with a positive story about the train. That is, of course, a good thing. They're all great plans, too. However, I must join Mrs Verhaert. Today we lose loyal customers, people who have been taking the train for years to go to work in Brussels or Antwerp. Those loyal customers are a bit of the SNCB's business. They are just that incidents sometimes happen, that there is bad communication, that they have to wait for their train or that their train doesn't show up. They'll take all of that. However, what has happened over the past few weeks and months goes far beyond that. We're running out of patience. I'm really worried about that. The problem should not drag on for too long. What I am missing in your response is an answer to the question from when enough new staff have been brought in, so that the services can be organized reliably again. Summer's coming. In July and August there are basically no P-trains. There are tourist trains. However, can we count on all trains to be reliable from 1 September 2022? The word'reliable' is important, because you also indicated that P trains will be removed today to ensure the remaining supply. You used the word "assurer." However, it is not assure today. Trains which are not removed in advance are often cancelled on a daily basis. Despite the structural deletions, therefore, there are still deficits and problems. So there was no answer to the question from when we can expect a reliable service again. There was also no answer to the question of why in the large depot of Antwerp, to which you yourself referred, absenteeism is much higher than elsewhere. Is that a problem being investigated? You state that SNCB has no explanation for this. Is it considered in one way or another how in one depot absenteeism is greater than in the other depots? Such differences in absenteeism are worth at least an investigation to find out why. After all, it is at the expense of the quality of the work of the staff who are still coming to work. They will be put under extra pressure to deliver, because colleagues seem to be absent frequently. As a result, SNCB is at risk of entering a vicious circle and the pressure on its staff is increasing, which means that they too may have to switch to absenteeism. Finally, it is really crucial to make some kind of gesture to the loyal travellers who are threatening to drop out. I keep repeating that. You have not responded, but it is important to provide some compensation for them, even if it is only symbolic. Holiday's coming up. A holiday ticket for one destination or another does not have to cost SNCB much and could be a nice gesture.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u32	Mr President, many things have been said, but I would like to respond to two points. First, as far as the future is concerned, it is true that solving the past and securing financing takes time, but it does. It is easier to stir up anger than to support solutions. Beyond Vision 2040, next week, we will have management contracts, Mr. Arens, which have been expected for several years and the means associated with them. It will therefore be possible to see how this is put in place with future staff challenges. There is the age pyramid, the minister recalled, but also ambitions such as increasing the number of travellers and goods. There is indeed a need for sufficient staff. That has been said and you have also said, Minister, that the necessary budgets must be allocated for that purpose. This will be necessary to confirm that we are emerging from the past austerity logic to regain the ambition for the rail. This is ambition and it will have to be confirmed soon. So these are not just visions at 2040 and 20 years of age, but the very concrete that awaits us in the weeks and months to come. Secondly, in relation to the current situation, which is also the result of the past and of this disinvestment logic of previous years, it has been said, the trades are under stress. It is the operational profession that causes the problems we know: train drivers, technicians, station workers, etc. We can't decide in the place of companies. Nevertheless, beyond the discussions on the endowments that are really the nerve of war - because if choices are made, it is also the fruit of this, we cannot untie these two problems completely - it will also take time to see whether within companies the wage bill is correctly affected according to the types of function and whether the efforts are well targeted to favour the operational professions. On the other hand, I mean recurring operations such as the Job Days. This is indeed necessary and there have been delays with the covid, etc. but shortages are felt in different sectors. There is the attractiveness of the trades, but I think that for the years to come, especially if we have a ten-year vision for the future of rail, we must be able to be bold in promoting these rail trades. Why not through strengthened partnerships with the world of education? Rail is the jobs of today and tomorrow for the ecological transition. No matter what mantra I want you for SNCB or "Join the Green New Deal!" But with public service and performance contracts, we will need arms and talents. Companies will also have to adapt their ability to recruit staff by being attractive at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u33	We can close our topical debate here and return to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u34	Minister, two years ago I was asking your predecessor, François Bellot, about the railway line from Binche to Brussels. Since the situation has not changed since then, I would like to ask you in your turn. Currently, with only one direct train per hour, the stations of Binche and La Louvière are very poorly served when it comes to getting to Brussels. In addition, the trains that pass there are often particularly old, dark and uncomfortable. And of course, the older the equipment, the more it fails, the more it fails, the more it causes delays. Meanwhile, SNCB has invested in brand new trains, but the stations of Binche and La Louvière unfortunately seem to have been "forgotten" by the railway company. Is it possible to improve the service of the Binche-Brussels line? Can we hope that new trains (or, in any case, less old trains) will soon replace or be added to the current trains on the same line?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u35	Mrs Zanchetta, thank you for your questions. You will have understood the general intention of the Minister of Mobility and the Government to gradually increase the transport offer. This applies to the entire network, including the Binche station and the people who climb or descend from the train at this beautiful station, moreover. The supply of trains has, moreover, already increased under the transport plan 20-23 by 5%. The intention is to continue on this trend with trains earlier in the morning and later in the evening. The vision we are developing is not only a quantitative improvement in supply, but also a qualitative improvement with greater comfort for passengers and, to do so, we must gradually replace the equipment we bought sometimes many years ago when we were not yet Members of this Parliament. As far as rolling stock is concerned, I am aware that part of the SNCB fleet is old and its age ranges from 7 years (for the Desiro model) to 46 years for the oldest still in service, the average being 25 years. For this reason, SNCB is investing €1.3 billion in the acquisition of a new double floor rolling stock. These new modern cars, M7, are being phased in. They respond, and will respond even more effectively tomorrow, to the desire to increase comfort and ergonomics on board. The introduction of this new equipment and the decommissioning of older rolling stock will reduce the average age of the SNCB fleet to 18 years by 2023, which will then be comparable to other countries. Meanwhile, the Binche region also benefits from M6 cars and Desiro equipment on weekends. For the particular case of Binche, there are seven trains per weekday, which run with double-storey M6 cars and nine trains per weekend that run with Desiro equipment. In addition, SNCB informs me that its plans plan to replace M4 cars from the second most burdensome train of the Binche-Turnhout relationship with more comfortable M6 cars. This also applies to other parts of the country, since it is the same train that crosses the whole country. The M4 are the oldest and the least comfortable. You understand: the smaller the number, the older the model. This replacement is planned at the earliest in the second half of 2022 – the solution is approaching: the replacement of M4 cars by M6 cars. This replacement, which I hope with you as quickly as possible, will improve the comfort of travelers from the Binche region, but also those from the Turnhout region, wat plezier zal maken aan mevrouw Verhaert, hoop ik. Making the train the backbone of mobility in Belgium will, of course, not happen overnight, either by increasing the supply of trains or by increasing the comfort for passengers. Nevertheless, substantial additional resources have already been made available since the beginning of the legislature. We are making every effort to make the future even more positive than the past. I've been working on it every day for over a year and a half now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, you're optimistic. I am, too. But as users of this line, it must be recognized that it takes a great deal of motivation to use these trains on a daily basis, which are often, as it was said, uncomfortable. We will necessarily be very attentive to the arrival of new material. I think the users of this line have seen the same trains for about 30 years and are getting tired. If we want to encourage citizens to use public transport, the offer must be able to follow and adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u37	Mrs Vindevoghel, I fully share your concern about our public health in a smog alarm. Your question highlights the urgent need for the transition to a more sustainable society, with less CO2 emissions and air pollution. Mobility has an essential role to play. It is a lever in the necessary envelope. The train is the least polluting form of mobility after cycling. The possibility of offering the various forms of public transport free of charge must be agreed by the various governments of our country. This must also be properly compensated for the loss of revenue of our transport companies. Every day the train wants to be the answer to transport people in an environmentally friendly way, even when there is no smog alarm. Above all, by focusing on increasing the number of train users and thus limiting individual journeys by car, we will be able to avoid smog alarms in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u38	Minister, I had also asked whether it would not be an option to make tickets cheaper or free during a smog alarm. I would like to refer to Germany, where the prices of tickets have been reduced to EUR 9, which allows people to use public transport throughout the country. Would it not be possible to introduce a price reduction in such periods for the people using the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u39	Minister, Audi Brussels in Vorst produces electric cars. More than 3,000 workers produce the vehicles. They also build the batteries for that. Part of the material is transported by truck and another part by train. Of course we encourage the use of the railways. The management of Audi Brussels has informed the trade unions of the possibility of producing batteries for electric car models assembled abroad. This will have a positive impact on employment in the factory. There would have been a choice for rail transport. Given the heavy weight of the batteries, around 500 kg, the management of Audi Brussels informed the trade unions of the need to carry out infrastructure work to ensure that this project is completed. Is your cabinet aware of the demand for a rail extension for the Audi Brussels battery factory? Has Audi Brussels contacted SNCB and Infrabel to make infrastructure adjustments? If so, what was the answer? Is there a timetable for this? Which investments exactly are we talking about? Can Infrabel offer additional lanes to operate the Audi Brussels factory? Are there any other proposals being made to this car assembly plant for more goods to be transported by rail? What is the state of play of the Schaerbeek-Vorming project? Does that also affect Audi Brussels, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u40	Mrs Vindevoghel, my cabinet is of course aware of this dossier. Audi Brussels is a very important company in Brussels, which offers a lot of employment. In fact, the first investment we made with European funds was also in favour of Audi. It was a bridge in Anderlecht. Infrabel maintains regular contacts with Audi and, together with the company, is looking for solutions to make maximum use of the train as a means of transport for its work. The news about the introduction of batteries via the train is positive. For example, trucks no longer have to drive to Brussels from Hungary. It is therefore very positive that the batteries can be transported by train to Audi Vorst. This is entirely in line with my ambition and with the government's ambition for freight transport in our country, which is to double the volume of goods transported by rail. Infrabel has therefore already prepared a preliminary study. Provided that the preliminary draft is validated by all interested parties, the adaptation works could be carried out within a reasonable time. Offering additional lanes still needs to be looked at, including on the basis of Audi's questions. Infrabel is always looking at all the options to improve rail transport, both for passenger and freight transport, and therefore for this concrete partnership with Audi. Finally, Schaerbeek-Vorming's file does not affect this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u41	I know you want to double the freight traffic. The planning of this project is not clear to me yet, but I will certainly follow it up further. I hope that we will be able to use freight instead of freight for the transport of batteries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u42	In the meantime, Minister, the situation has been largely cleared up. I have only one remaining question. A temporary railway change was made when work was being done on a bridge. That caused a lot of trouble. Infrabel has done counts and it has indeed been acknowledged that there was a problem. This question is somewhat dated, because it was already tabled in March. Infrabel then agreed to remove that track change. The change would not therefore become definitive. I have one more question. In the meantime, Mr. Secretary, is the switch gone or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u43	Mr Toventers, Infrabel informs me that their specialized service has carried out additional noise and vibration measurements. After a thorough analysis of the situation and taking into account the comments of the local residents, as well as the measurements made on noise and vibration, Infrabel decided to remove the two switches. Planning is currently in preparation. The infrastructure manager must request various traffic interruptions and negotiate with the railway undertakings, both SNCB and freight operators. In the meantime, the technical services concerned shall draw up a roadmap for those outbreaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u45	Mr President, Minister, these questions have been tabled a long time ago, but the busy agenda of our committee has only now brought them up to date. I just want to check on the state of play with regard to the Hamont-Weert case. What contacts have there been in the meantime? A declaration of intent was signed, the studies would be reviewed. What update and progress of the work can you give me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the questions have indeed been tabled a while ago, but that does not make them less relevant. I refer to an article in Limburg's interest in April this year. This reflected a report from the Belgian-Dutch government stop, which did not lead to a breakthrough in the file on the railway link Hamont-Weert. As we all know, the new Dutch government is no longer convinced, or not yet fully convinced, of the added value of the connection. Both countries indicated that they continued to work on follow-up steps for the ambition to establish a rail link between Weert and Hamont, which is seen in a broader context. I think that's a cryptic phrase and I would have liked to have explained it. What exactly is to be understood by follow-up steps and in a broader context? The Netherlands would like to make a final decision on the dossier before the end of this year. In the meantime, have we been going on for a while - any contacts planned between you and your Dutch colleague? If so, when? What further initiatives will you take to convince your fellow minister across the border?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u47	Mr President, Belgium and the Netherlands want to work even more closely together in the future to remove obstacles and allow even more people and companies to opt for the train. The train connects people across borders. It is the transport solution for the future. For cross-border traffic, an integrated tariff policy is being developed to save passengers' hassle with additional surcharges when travelling across the border. Safety systems are also better coordinated. As you have heard in the press, there was indeed a summit between the Dutch Government and the Belgian Government on 19 April 2022. In addition to an extensive part of the plenary, there was also room for bilateral talks. For example, I had a pleasant meeting with Secretary of State Vivianne Heijnen, responsible for the railway in the Netherlands. During this conversation we discussed the various cross-border railway files, including, of course, the Limburgse. We have confirmed our will to work together on good rail links between the two countries by concluding and signing a new cooperation agreement in this respect. My administration and cabinet work closely with their Dutch colleagues on the dossier which is indeed of great strategic importance. I would like to reiterate that the necessary work has been carried out on the Belgian side. The track is now electrified along the Belgian side to Hamont. The necessary follow-up steps are taken to develop the rail link between Antwerp, Hamant and Weert. The ball is in the camp of the Dutch. But I do not leave behind to emphasize in every contact with my Dutch colleagues the interest of Belgium in the connection Antwerp-Hamont-Weert. In the further consultation with the Netherlands, the aim is to co-ordinate the existing investigations and where there is still uncertainty, or where alternatives have been advanced by the various stakeholders, to clarify them, so that further steps are taken. Finally, the negotiations we are conducting with SNCB and Infrabel on the public service contract and the performance contract have reached an important stage, with the agreement of the two boards of directors. Now there's a discussion within the government. This will be presented to Parliament next week. We will therefore be discussing this very soon in this committee and within the government. In November, the texts must be finalized before their entry into force on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u48	Mr President, I am getting more and more worried about this dossier. It used to be in Rutte 3, but Rutte 4 no longer. I have repeatedly called for it because it was incredibly important to continue working on it and to be almost lobbied on the Dutch side, both during the formation of the government and afterwards, to include this project. The Rutte 4 government declaration was unfortunately not reached, but at least there are the policy plans of the competent State Secretary. All I hear is that they met on April 19th. My question remains unanswered, but she also lives on the Dutch side. Is the glass half full or half empty, so I was literally asked. People don't know what to think of this. There is an intention, but the ball is in the camp of the Netherlands. We'll clear it up further, but when? I don't hear when, what contacts are there, or being pushed through.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u49	I respect democracy. The Netherlands is a democracy with another parliament. We have carried out all the works in Belgium. Every time I meet my Dutch colleague, I say that this link is important to us. However, I cannot decide for the Netherlands, you must be serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u50	When's the next appointment? Was it captured? What's the further planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u51	We see each other regularly with our records. I cannot decide for myself for the Netherlands. I'm a Democrat. I respect the democracy of the Netherlands. I am clear to my Dutch colleague: for us this is important, we are ready, do your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u52	I am not suggesting at all that you are not democratic and I am not asking you to be undemocratic. Pushing and pressing and pressing and emphasising the importance, is something other than waiting for a next meeting to come, when they are ready in the Netherlands. We'll see what comes of it, but honestly, I don't think it looks good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u53	Minister, I agree with you. This is a strategic dossier, and that may prove to be the case. We visited with the committee on the spot. It is clear to everyone that this is strategic. I must say that this may go a little further than the will, intentions, ambitions on modal shift, on fewer cars and more take the train, on cross-border connections. Minister, if we ask you when you will see your colleague again and what is still planned, you will not be less democrat in that respect. You say that everything is ready on the Belgian side. In fact, we made sure that everything was ready in the previous legislature. The platforms are extended, the station is open again, the electrification has been realized. Now it's up to you to get that ball in. I understand, of course, that you cannot make decisions across the border, but you must do more than express ambitions and intentions. You must, as it were, stalk your fellow minister, you must keep knocking on the table there. You have to make sure that connection is realized, because talk doesn't fill holes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u54	Minister, in response to changing demand and behaviour in terms of mobility and, in particular, the increase in telework, SNCB has launched a flexible subscription pilot project for home-to-work journeys. This form of "Flex Subscription" will best respond to the alternation between telework and attendance at the office. The date of the first quarter of 2022 had been regularly mentioned for the sale of this subscription to all commuters. On its Twitter account, however, SNCB states that this transaction will be postponed to 2023. Minister, do you confirm this information? Can you explain the reasons for this delay? When will the "Flex Subscription" finally be available for all travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u55	Mr Vajda, first of all, I congratulate you on your patience! As the example of the mobility budget shows, citizens expect more flexibility in their mobility. This is one of the key issues for the future. For this reason, we asked SNCB to develop formulas that better respond to new mobility habits. This is the case with the "Flex Subscription", which is currently in the pilot phase. SNCB informs me that it is aiming at the gradual launch of this offer for the last quarter of this year. As a first step, the "Flex Subscription" will target B2B customers - who have entered into a third-party agreement with SNCB. Then, in 2023, it will target the rest of the clientele. SNCB is refining its mobile application so that it allows the smooth integration of the "Flex Subscription". Indeed, its particularity is that it will be necessary to indicate the days on which the train was taken, since "Flex Subscription" offers a defined number of journeys within a specified period. I have, of course, insisted with SNCB on the need to work on the rapid launch of this "Flex Subscription", in order to meet the commitments made so far in favour of commuters. The development of cross-border subscriptions is more complex, requiring negotiations with foreign partners such as CFL, NS, SNCF and DB - for the Luxembourg, Dutch, French and German railways respectively. The technical offers and possibilities specific to each partner country vary. For this reason, it is currently impossible to fully standardise cross-border subscription offers. However, given the freeness of the Luxembourg network - at least in the second class - this does not pose any difficulties for commuters who travel daily from Belgium to the Grand Duchy. At this stage, the development of a cross-border "Flex Subscription" is not planned, but it should not pose any difficulties for Luxembourgers in the province who are going to work in the Grand Duchy - and vice versa. However, I will continue to work with my counterparts in neighbouring countries on the tariff integration of our respective transport offers. As Minister of Mobility, I want to make the choice of sustainable modes of transport such as the train as easy and attractive as possible. An extended and flexible train offer is an essential condition for achieving our objectives in Belgium and elsewhere, and cross-border links are important in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. You are announcing a fast and accurate delay - in the fourth quarter of 2022. This is obviously a very good thing, and I welcome it. I am somewhat disappointed, but I understand the technical difficulties which prevent, for the moment, sharing this offer with cross-border workers. Uniformization is more difficult. This has less consequences with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, where second-class transport is free. I assume, however, that this project will continue in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u57	Minister, thank you for your "good" answer. You will find that I can also be satisfied, when it follows, as I am unhappy when it does not follow. Of course, I insist that this subscription be available as soon as possible. Your answer also means that SNCB's communication on Twitter was wrong, since it announced the postponement to 2023 of this measure you are planning to take by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u58	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, when a Member of Parliament asks questions, it is based on articles, personal knowledge. Here, I'm going to ask you a question that is based on a rumor. It's unusual in my head but this rumor could, if confirmed, ask a question that would bother me. The Arlon station, which is the largest number of passengers in the province of Luxembourg, is crucial because of its proximity to the Luxembourg and French borders. It currently offers a type of attendance that could be described as optimal. In its current configuration, it would be difficult to accommodate more passengers. However, there is a short rumour that the removal of track 8 would be considered. However, this route is now useful for the current train offer and its removal would undoubtedly cause the transport plan and punctuality to be undermined, which is also one of your concerns. This new model therefore surprises because it does not coincide with the objective that you carry to further increase the supply of trains and to make rail the backbone of mobility. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the question directly. Do you confirm the removal of track 8 in Arlon or can you reduce that rumor to nothing? If the rumour is well-founded, what are the reasons for this choice? What would be the timetable for the removal of this route? If so, what are you putting in place to achieve your goal of increasing supply, while eliminating this path?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u59	Mr President, Mr Vajda, I was no later than Thursday at the Arlon station on the road to Luxembourg and the Kirchberg for the European Summit. I was able to stop there for a few minutes and, of course, see the work that is still to be done. With regard to the famous way 8, Infrabel informs me of the following. Track 8 at Arlon Station was put in place during work at the site to avoid loss of capacity when another station wharf was decommissioned for renovation. This building is in the process of being completed. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June. Due to its provisional status, the installation of Track 8 was not carried out to last. It also operates under the guise of a derogation from the authorized railway regulations until the end of the work. This route is therefore not planned as it is not included in the station's master plan. I would say even more, the non-permanence of this track will not have a negative impact on the traffic of trains via the Arlon station since, in the meantime, work to be carried out on the site will be completed and the other docks which were temporarily unavailable will normally be used. This information that you feared and considered negative will therefore have no negative impact on the ability to accommodate trains at Arlon train stations from Belgium or the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u60	Minister, thank you. Track 8 is indeed provisional in nature. I dug up the subject after I put this question. I came back from knowledgeable users, who are not necessarily members of SNCB and even less from Infrabel, that, since this path is not intended to last, removing it should not cause too many problems. However, they drew my attention to the timing in which this wharf would be removed. I therefore urge you to be careful and to ensure that all the work on the other tracks will be completed well before this removal, in order to avoid any problems, even temporary ones. You know the negative effect that this can have.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u61	I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u62	The figures, Minister, are alarming: 13 attacks per day, a total of 5,000 in 2021, for the staff of SNCB, STIB, TEC and De Lijn. They're all under pressure. This is more than 23% compared to 2020. These are only the numbers of physical assaults. We don't talk about verbal assaults that are, as we know, daily. This is obviously a big problem. This means that if you go to work every day, you risk an assault, either physical or verbal, in your workplace. These attacks have, of course, as for everyone, an extremely important psychological impact. It's time to put an end to it. My questions are simple. They are as follows. An awareness-raising campaign will be launched in collaboration with SNCB, TEC, De Lijn, STIB and relevant ministers. This is a good thing, but will it be enough? How can we ensure greater safety in public transport? Are there any planned measures? Do you work with other competent ministers at other levels of authority on measures to ensure safety or, at the very least, to ensure security on the most sensitive lines, and focus on them? I am thinking in particular of what exists in France: this "sexual alert" button. It was created in France in 2019 and can be sent by SMS. Do you know the system? I think so. Anyway, I hope so. What is its impact on security? Can we consider this kind of system at home? I think that if we want to encourage – and this has been your message since the beginning of the legislature – the use of public transport, we must actually reduce the number of attacks. We're talking about staff assaults, but what about the users? Do you have any numbers? Are there any evidence of assaults on users? You still have to reassure commuters if you want to encourage them to take the train, the bus, the tram more. In any case, secure public transport is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Reuter, and welcome. Mr Toventos, I keep repeating it. Without security, there can be no freedom, neither can there be freedom of movement. I strongly condemn any form of aggression, especially against government personnel such as train escorts. I extend my condolences to both victims of the regrettable incidents in Ypres and Liedekerke. Following the physical aggression against the train attendant in Ypres, SNCB's Security Operations Center (SOC) requested the intervention of the 112 service, the police and a buddy. The 911 came to the scene. The train attendant who was slightly injured was replaced by a colleague. He was caught on the scene by a buddy, in this case a team leader of the zone Bruges. He has also received telephone support from the team leader of the zone Kortrijk. SOC provided the surveillance footage of the incident to the local Ypres police conducting the investigation. In addition, SNCB generally provides psychological assistance to staff members who have experienced traumatic events, such as a case of assault, i.e. front-line psychological support by trained colleagues. This service has been in existence for many years. Since 2021, second-line psychological support has been provided by external psychologists who provide a permanence in Brussels or who can be contacted by video call. If necessary, individual accompaniment by a psychologist closer to the home is possible. The Securail service falls within my competence and also within the competence of my colleague in the Interior. My cabinet, together with the Home Office and SNCB, maps out the points of improvement for all safety phenomena in the entire railway domain, both in terms of patrols and interventions. Broadly speaking, safety is an essential part of both the Railways 2040, which was recently approved by the government, and of the public service contract with SNCB, which we are currently negotiating. We have discussed this on several occasions in this committee. An in-depth debate was also held within the Private Security Advisory Council, which was set up by the Minister of the Interior, together with the security services of the public transport companies and several other partners, such as the police services, the legal partners and staff representatives. Several topics will be discussed, such as the coordination of powers, intervention procedures, means of defence, training, etc. My cabinet will support that process and give the necessary impetus. Mrs Reuter, as regards the number of complaints lodged by travellers concerning attacks on public transport, these are usually lodged with the police. SNCB does not have figures on this subject. I invite you to question the Minister of the Interior in order to obtain information on the matter. Finally, at the meetings of the Interdepartmental Conference on Mobility - the next will take place today at 6.30 p.m. - we are working with my regional colleagues in Mobility to ensure safety in public transport because it is a common challenge. As far as SNCB is concerned, but the intention is to generalise this system, a WhatsApp notification system is in the process of being prepared. I announced it some time ago in committee. This system should be operational as early as next year, which will allow passengers and even better passengers who do not feel safe to report it quickly. As I said, these acts of violence are intolerable. Fortunately, they remain rare, but they must be treated with seriousness, both with specific support for the SNCB workers who have been victims of them, and both to ensure as pleasant a mobility as possible for the more and more people who are taking the train. This is part of my commitments and the elements on which we are working to improve the quality of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u64	I would like to hear that they are working on the whatsapp system, which was announced earlier. And I would also like to hear that it is recognised that safety is an essential part of the future vision of rail and that this aspect is also included in the discussion of the management contract and that there are in-depth debates. I am therefore looking forward to the concrete results of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u65	Minister, thank you. You have given me a number of elements, but elements a posteriori. Of course, psychological follow-up is needed. Of course, these attacks are condemned by everyone. You say they're still rare. I find that thirteen attacks on staff a day are a lot; as I said, there were 5,000 attacks in 2021. It is very good that you have a meeting with your regional colleagues and that you are trying to work together. I welcome him once again, but there is a need to step up efforts in terms of prevention. It is necessary to ensure that the staff are more protected, because acting a posteriori may reduce the damage, but once the harm is done, it is too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u66	Mr Minister, cycling is healthy, cheap and good for the environment. Therefore, it was the government's ambition to fiscally stimulate the use of the bicycle. VAT on bicycles would decrease from 21% to 6%. However, the government is now returning to its steps, because there will be no such planned VAT reduction. Minister, that measure would be too expensive. Can you tell me exactly how expensive? The government would like to use the budget of EUR 80 million per year to improve the bicycle fee, according to what I have heard. My question dates back to April. Is that a statement? Can you give me a hint of the veil yet? What exactly does this improvement mean? Last year you also launched an action plan to promote the bike. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of different action points? Which action points have already been implemented, which are in progress and which have not yet been started?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u67	Mr. Raskin, cycling to work has many advantages. The cyclist reduces his CO2 emissions, avoids traffic jams, gets more movement and is more relaxed. The latter I see, people on the bike are happier. For your first question, please refer to Mr Van Peteghem, my fellow Finance Minister. Your question is about VAT on bicycle purchases and he is competent for taxation and VAT. As far as your second question is concerned, this government has indeed preferred an initiative to promote commuting by bicycle. In concrete terms, EUR 240 million will be allocated over three years to support the choice of more active and sustainable mobility to work. Together with my colleagues from Economics, Work, Social Affairs, Health and Finance, I have asked for advice from the NAR and the Central Council for Business to promote the use of the bicycle for moving to work, for example by increasing the maximum mileage allowance or by extending the reimbursement for commuting by bicycle. We look forward to their contributions to define the modalities of this support in the coming weeks, with respect for the social dialogue and the good ideas of the social partners. Thirdly, promoting the use of the bicycle for commuting is one of the many interesting measures in the first federal action plan to promote the bicycle, Be Cyclist. This project will be evaluated once a year, in September. We are working with VIAS to evaluate this plan, the results of which should be known in September. So you can see that we are working hard to promote the combination of bike and train. It is one of the good initiatives of the federal government to promote the bike.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u68	Minister, you are referring to your colleague. We'll hear from him then. You also referred to an evaluation of your action plan in September. We'll hear about that. I can't really do much with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament 55026853C) by Mrs Buyst and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Roggeman (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u70	I refer again to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u71	Mr Troasts, the manager of Brussels Airport, Brussels Airport Company (BAC), is a private company. It's not for me to comment on her board of directors, let alone on her financial situation. Given the economic importance of the airport and its central role in aviation, I have regular contact with the management of Brussels Airport Company. However, BAC needs a balanced flight law, as included in the government agreement. That is why I have set up a consultation platform, assisted by a technical working group, which brings together all stakeholders, including, of course, Brussels Airport. The aim of the measures is to find balanced solutions that are acceptable to all. We cannot deny the negative impact on the environment, as well as on the quality of life and health of the inhabitants of the Brussels Region and of Flemish and Walloon Brabant. Finally, the aim is also to provide the airport with a clear legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u73	Minister, statutory employment guarantees a high-quality service for our railways. For us, the N-VA's proposal to abolish that status from the Belgian railways and only to recruit people on a contractual basis is a conservative cramp. The railway sector has very specific staff requirements. Experience and a long-term vision of staff must therefore be central. In addition, the training for new staff is very specific. It requires a lot of investment from the company and its employees. Therefore, operational staff shall be recruited on a statutory basis. It is an incentive to connect with the company, often for a lifetime. Railway management is also aware of this, given the current tight labour market and the competition between different companies. How do you view the future of this employment? Is statutory employment the norm for you? Are SNCB and Infrabel requesting parties to retain the statutory recruitments or do they opt for contractual? What is the relationship between the number of contractual and statutory obligations, both with SNCB and with Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u74	Mrs Vindevoghel, the recruitment of staff by the railways is governed by the law of 23 July 1926. In this context, SNCB and Infrabel are able to recruit both statutory and contractual. You know that I attach great importance to all the train crews, all the women and men who work day after day at both SNCB and Infrabel to allow trains to run in our country. Together they are the cornerstone of our rail transport. Their well-being is therefore the highest priority for me, as is a sound working framework and good working conditions. That's what's going on here for me. As for your last question about the relations today with SNCB and Infrabel on contractual and statutory matters, I can give you the following figures. The date of 28 April 2022 was the contractual percentage for SNCB 9.9 % and for Infrabel 14.6 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed very important that people have a good contract. We are in favour of maintaining a statutory contract. We must not forget its history. I remember the example of someone at Skeyes who told me that it was important to have a statutory contract because they sometimes have to go against commercial purposes. For example, if there are problems with an aircraft, a technician should be able to decide that the aircraft cannot leave. The fact that statutory jobs exist means that people can decide in difficult situations and still retain their jobs. We are therefore in favour of maintaining statutory contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u76	Mr Wollants is not here, so we will wait for the end of the sitting to decide on his combined questions. 55026995C and 55026997C. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u77	Living and integrated stations in their environment are an essential ingredient for improving the experience of travellers. This is why they are fully part of the recently adopted Government Vision Rail 2040 but also part of the future public service contract with SNCB. Despite the complicated health context, we were able to launch last year with SNCB a short circuit project at stations consisting of food withdrawal points produced locally. As the contracts ran until the end of April, the project is in the process of being finalized. While an initial positive assessment has already been made in terms of interest for this type of service, a detailed assessment still needs to be discussed with the partners. It will naturally take into account the very specific health and economic contexts in which the test took place, the pandemic period. SNCB has collected the interests and is currently analysing the follow-up on the basis of the lessons learned from the test phase. I will follow the evaluation of this project with great interest, and we will draw conclusions as to its possible extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will wait for the detailed report and we will ask you again about this important issue for the future of the stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u79	Question No 55027047C by Mrs Kim Buyst is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u80	Mr President, Minister, among the 10% of unelectrified railway tracks in Belgium are those on lines 132 and 134, between Charleroi-Sud and Couvin. Also aware that diesel locomotives emit a lot of CO2, it is appropriate to find an alternative. Minister, is there a scheduled date for eliminating the use of diesel locomotives in Belgium? Is electrification of lines 132 and 134 technically feasible given the presence of three old and very narrow tunnels and the Dourbes magnetic observatory? Has the financial cost of electrifying the remaining railway lines that are not electrified been estimated? If so, how much does it amount to? Has the track of the battery trains been studied? If so, could it be retained? Would the problem of limited autonomy not be an obstacle to implementation? Following intensive contacts between the Mobility, Infrabel, SNCB and the Transport & Mobility Leuven study office, a final report on the replacement of diesel traction on lines 58, 82, 86, 122, 132, 134, 21C, 55 and 204 was to be published. Has this publication been published? If so, is it searchable and what are the conclusions? Finally, would a solution not be to convert diesel engines to be adapted to hydrogen and biogas? Has this possibility already been explored? If so, what are the conclusions of the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u81	Mr Bombled, as you know, this line between Charleroi and Couvin is dear to me, like all the other lines or even more. We have made investments in particular to allow the transport by train, which is the best of the modes of transport, of goods extracted from quarries that adjoin this line, which ensures a future for this important passenger line at the exit of Charleroi. The train is the means of ecological displacement par excellence. This is even more true in Belgium, our network being one of the best electrified in Europe with more than 90% of the network that is electrified. The study to which you refer has been carried out on behalf of the SPF Mobility by Transport & Mobility Leuven. It has been available since February 2021 on the SPF website as well as on the study office's website. This excellent quality study distinguishes between the rail network used for passenger trains and the network used for freight. For passenger transport, the rate of electrification is still above 90%, reaching 97% compared to 60% in some neighbouring countries such as Germany or France. The remaining remaining lines are served by SNCB's AR 41 diesel railcars. This is the case for rolling stock between Charleroi and Couvin. These railcars were, at the time of their commissioning, in compliance with the regulations in force and can continue to be used until their estimated end of life in the early 2030s – there is still room for improvement. They will then have to be replaced by trains using an alternative energy source. SNCB is considering integrating the option of a battery system for its next electrical rolling stock controls. In addition, under the energy agreement of 18 March, the government decided to finance pilot projects for the development of hydrogen locomotives by retrofit (modernisation of existing diesel equipment). A budget of EUR 2 million has been set aside. We are negotiating with both railway transport companies and a Belgian company capable of achieving this return on the realization of this pilot project. The Transport & Mobility Leuven study indicates that hydrogen technology is not yet mature, but is in the process of becoming mature. It is also the role of a State like ours to finance such pilot projects to enable this technology to be tested before being generalized and why not exported to other countries. Batteries and hydrogen seem to me to be the two future solutions for the motorization of trains running between Charleroi and Leuven. Before that, we have equipment that is not perfect because diesel, but fully in condition to provide service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u82	Mr.Minister, you know that I am very concerned about the future of rural railway lines, and lately you have reassured me about the future of lines 132 and 134. It is true that investments have been made there and some are planned for the coming months. Indeed, there are some lines that are not electrified in our country; for various reasons, but mainly financial, they will probably never be electrified. In this case, it will be necessary, as you indicated, to use an alternative to the old polluting diesel locomotive. You talked about leads: batteries or hydrogen. You have also stressed that financial resources are devoted to these developments, which I welcome. I look forward to the implementation of these alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 55027116C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u84	Minister, during the summer months of 2021, the passengers who wanted to visit our kiss by train could reserve a seat on the Coast Express trains. With these trains they could drive directly to the coast from Brussels-South, Antwerp-Central, Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Liège-Guillemins. Will the project of the Coast Express trains be repeated during the summer months of 2022? If so, when? Under what conditions? With what system? With what connections and frequencies? Will they be the same as last year? In case the Coast Express trains again drive in the summer this year, will the province of Limburg be included in the project, with a departing and upcoming Coast Express connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u85	Mr Toventors, Mrs Vindevoghel, the Coast Express with reservation that drove during the summer of 2021 was created to have a look at the number of train passengers that tracked to the coast in full health crisis. We have already discussed the outcome of that test with the reservation system here in committee. It is quite clear that few train passengers have been won in favour of the reservation system because of a lack of flexibility. SNCB's intention is to re-use direct and fast trains in addition to its fixed offer during the summer holiday of 2022 from the stations from which the largest passenger flows can be expected. Like you, I'm hoping for a sunny summer. These are direct trains that will start from about 50 stations, including in Limburg. The trains will be specifically aimed at day trips and will take them to the sea faster than the trains from the fixed offer. In the strategy that SNCB has been pursuing in this area for years, it will once again look for lanes, trying to spread its passengers as evenly as possible over the regular and the extra supply. We plan a trip by train to the sea depending on the good weather. SNCB can therefore only communicate about the expected traffic on its trains if that beautiful weather is confirmed. The goal is to inform passengers about the hustle and bustle before they go to the station. In this way, SNCB aims to ensure a better distribution of passengers. It is of the utmost importance to inform passengers who are less at home in our digital communication channels. That is why SNCB always sends out a press release when it expects a big crowd, so that the message is also spread through more traditional channels, such as the radio. With the promotions such as the Duo Ticket and other advertising campaigns, SNCB aims to promote the train as a sustainable and cheap means of transport for leisure trips, for example. In doing so, SNCB usually does not focus on a specific destination. That is also the case for the Duo Ticket. This is valid for each of the more than 550 destinations. At a limited number of moments there can be a greater crowd to a limited number of destinations, such as the coast. SNCB has chosen to tell passengers at those times that there may be waiting times, but without stopping the whole campaign. After all, we want to continue to encourage people to take the train more and more often. SNCB devotes its resources to passenger flows. There were therefore no staff shortages for the trains to the coast, nor for the reception at the stations concerned. During the weekends with works between Ghent and Bruges two types of replacement buses were provided: a bus that drove between Ghent and Bruges with one stop at Aalter and a bus that drove between Ghent and Bruges and did all intermediate stops. 140 replacement buses were used every weekend. Each replacement bus had at least 40 seats. In none of the weekends involved there were occupation problems on the replacement buses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer, in which I have heard good things. I welcome the fact that there are direct trains to the coast and Limburg will not be forgotten. I congratulate you on that, Minister. If it's okay, we'll say it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the very full answer to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u88	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u89	Rail safety is always at the forefront, both in my policy agenda and in any decision the SNCB and Infrabel. The new LINDA system guarantees a uniform procedure with a lower risk of passing a signal. This will ensure greater safety for passengers and train crews. It is a uniform procedure, irrespective of the station or type of rolling stock. In the meantime, SNCB has revised the procedure to make an incident such as that impossible in April 2021. That revised procedure has been tested since January 2022. About 60% of trains use the LINDA system today. Once the last obstacles have been taken, the system will be applied at 100 %. The total cost of the project is about 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm watching how this evolves. I don't want to be too negative, but I hear two sounds. Among the staff I hear people who are for and people who are against. So I'm just waiting to see how it evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u91	Questions Nos 55027262C by Mrs Catherine Fonck and 55027265C by Mrs Kim Buyst are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u92	Mr President, customer friendliness is what makes me an essential pillar of the service provided by the railway companies that contributes to the attractiveness of the train. A service such as Ombudsrail is therefore very important to support and protect the traveller where necessary. The health crisis has also had a fundamental impact on commuting, reducing travel by train for a period of time. Fortunately, this is changing again now that the health situation is already looking brighter. During the health crisis, SNCB kept running its trains, at the request of the government, in the national interest, even during the most difficult moments of the crisis. SNCB continues to apply its general transport values with the usual rules on reimbursement. During the health crisis, travellers arrived at Ombudsrail with comments on the rules of refund or renewal of subscriptions and fitting. This resulted in opinions from Ombudsrail, which went against the position of SNCB not to deviate from its transport conditions. SNCB therefore assures me that it has analysed with the greatest attention every advice given by Ombudsrail. In 2021, 600 appeal proceedings were initiated with Ombudsrail with regard to the service provided by SNCB. On the other hand, SNCB received 99.000 responses from its rail passengers in 2021. This ratio shows that 0.6% of the reactions of the rail passengers gave rise to an appeal procedure at Ombudsrail. SNCB therefore considers that this demonstrates that the relationship with rail passengers is good. The ultimate objective of the quality management by SNCB is to satisfy customers by meeting their expectations. To this end, procedures, processes and working methods are developed and closely observed by all personnel involved in customer services. For example, there is regular internal consultation on the follow-up of administrative fines and improvements are always made where possible and always in the interests of the customer. SNCB acknowledges that during the health crisis there were times when a customer had to wait longer than usual for his or her answer. When the covid measures rapidly changed, SNCB often received a whole series of questions and comments from rail passengers. This sometimes led to a longer deadline for replying. At the moment, the response time is back to normal. All reactions of rail passengers are included in a database, which draws reporting on deadlines and volumes. Human mistakes, however, can never be ruled out. In these cases, SNCB will learn the necessary lessons from this. It is also the case that SNCB's answers get into the spam filters. Mrs Buyst, at the start of the pandemic, SNCB did indeed extend the validity of the multi-ride maps in order to give passengers more time to use their journeys. In view of the current situation, where almost all restrictions have been lifted, SNCB sees no reason to repeat this. Mr Parent, with regard to your important questions about accessibility, SNCB currently offers subscriptions of different durations: 1 month, 3 months and 12 months. This allows travellers to subscribe to the subscription the duration of which best corresponds to their situation: a monthly subscription which offers them total flexibility or an annual subscription which is then about 15% cheaper. SNCB will soon be offering the Flex subscription in monthly and annual versions. In addition, it will launch this Flex subscription in a variety of options that will meet the needs of its clients to go to work two or three days a week. With regard to the request for assistance for persons with reduced mobility, which is currently being made by telephone or via the website, SNCB is in the process of modernising the procedure. A new customer journey has been created and tested for and with customers to facilitate their experience. A new app and site will be available at the end of 2022. With regard to the digital accessibility standards of its new application and website, SNCB makes available to its customers a declaration of accessibility concerning them. All information about the partial compliance of the application and its website can be found there. Content identified as non-compliant is usually accompanied by an alternative available on the same web page. Improvements to the belgiantrain.be site are planned in the medium term. In addition, SNCB is committed to making its websites and mobile applications accessible to all, including persons with disabilities. Its technical teams are working to best meet the standard set out in the Act of 19 July 2018 on the accessibility of websites and public sector bodies. SNCB also works closely with AnySurfer on accessibility issues for people with visual impairments. There is no doubt that improvements are needed to ensure that all its clients have an easy and fully satisfactory experience. It is also undeniable that SNCB is making every effort to adapt these tools in this direction. With regard to "Côte Express", which will no longer require a reservation in the future, the procedure for requesting assistance is identical to that for all other trains and enjoys the same accessibility. That's my answer, Mr. Parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for a very comprehensive reply. I am glad to hear that there is a coming improvement when it comes to the operation of the customer service, at least with regard to the treatment periods, so that one gets back to the normal level when it comes to the duration. I hope to read a better report from the ombudsmen's service next year, because that of the previous year showed that there was little empathy for the traveller. Hopefully it'll get better next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u94	Minister, I agree with you that I will have to read the answer carefully because it is not easy to preside, to listen at the same time and to be very attentive to the substance. Nevertheless, thank you. In any case, I understand that in terms of accessibility, routes are tested with PMRs. I think it's essential. We have already had this debate earlier on the rights of passengers with reduced mobility. It is important that all problematic situations can be found in practice because, behind intentions and prospects in terms of material, it is important to cling to the experience of these people as much as possible. Their experience with SNCB is therefore necessary to enrich and reduce the reporting of ombudsrail on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u95	Mr President, I can still answer a question, because then I have to go to the Interdepartmental Conference on Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u96	Mr Jef Van den Bergh is not present and we have no indication of his question No 55027307C. The two questions Nos 55027322C and 55027323C by Mr Wouter Vermeersch are postponed. Mr. André Flahaut did not elaborate on his question No. 55027504C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u97	Mr Parent, we quickly addressed this important issue in the discussion on the European accessibility regulation. SNCB confirms that this is a problem in the system used by SNCF. We are talking about the difficulty, for a less valid person, of getting a ticket for an international transport. Meanwhile, an IT release, an update of the computer system in good French, took place on the SNCF side. Since 26 April 2022, SNCB can again issue TGV tickets to people with reduced mobility, at the best available price, which is a novelty, and in digital format, via its international call center. The customer can therefore receive his transport ticket in digital format and print it at home. He is no longer obliged, which was an ineptitude, to go to the Gare du Midi. The online reservation of his transport ticket and assistance will be available from September 2022. This reservation will be possible for all operators travelling directly from Belgium (Thalys, TGV and Eurostar) in digital format and under the conditions of each of these operators. At national level, the purchase of tickets on the SNCB website and the request for an assistant are two distinct steps that are not currently planned to be merged. SNCB works with associations to facilitate the procurement process from the most vulnerable audiences. This example clearly demonstrates the cross-cutting nature of accessibility issues. The complete accessibility of our rail network is to make our trains and stations accessible but not only. Indeed, information to travellers, sales channels and dialogue with relevant associations are also relevant levers for action. For this reason, in the context of the negotiations for the conclusion of a public service contract with SNCB, I cross-cuttingly address accessibility issues arising from specific commitments and concrete advances for travellers in relation to the various pillars mentioned above.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u98	Minister, thank you. Of course, we can welcome the fact that there are immediate solutions to the problem raised and prospects also to strengthen the accessibility of transport tickets for PMRs, including for all international tickets. It's important! Recall that since March 11, 2021, it has been a constitutional right. Every person with disabilities has the right to full inclusion in our society, including the right to reasonable accommodation. Such a situation was obviously difficult to conceive for 2022. I'm referring to this person who had to go to the station to pick up her tickets while she was in a wheelchair. That is why the dialogue is planned with the associations that are experts in this field. This is essential to both improve the rights of travellers structurally and provide immediate responses to situations of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u99	Mr Parent, this is an important issue. Security is a top priority for me, as a minister, but also for Infrabel, who oversees it in all areas of his work. Safety is ensured on all construction sites without distinction between those that are outsourced or outsourced. The presence and number of subcontractors in the rail sector depend on the operations carried out and the public contracts awarded. Infrabel uses subcontracting as part of its activities, as does the construction sector as a whole. In this case, it is the company which has won the public contract that guarantees the safety of its subcontractors and verifies whether they are acting in accordance with the law. Infrabel insists on this point in the drafting of the specifications. In addition, the infrastructure manager has a code of conduct for its suppliers and contractors. Developed within the framework of Infrabel's CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) policy, this code focuses on Infrabel's expectations of its contractors with regard to occupational safety. Regular checks shall be carried out. The publication of the article to which you refer immediately called the managers of the site who carried out a series of checks. The various documents concerning the workers present on the site have been checked. The records and statements were in order. A safety and health plan has been drawn up. The workers were all welcomed by the company responsible for the construction site, during which instructions were given in relation to their safety. The project, like all other Infrabel and Tuc Rail construction sites, was the subject of health and safety coordination. In this context, in particular, the risks associated with impetents have been well identified and taken into account. That's what Infrabel tells me. As you know, the well-being of workers is essential to me. That is why I personally wrote to the management of Infrabel to question him about the suspicions of problems related to the working environment on his work sites, in general, but in connection with the same article. In any case, Infrabel tells me that it intends to remain very attentive to this issue and to pursue a proactive policy on health, safety and well-being for all its staff and as long as employees are active on the construction sites it supervises. This essential dimension will also be reflected in the performance contract between the Belgian State and Infrabel, as well as in the public service contract between the same Belgian State and SNCB, even if the infrastructure manager is dependent on a higher volume of public works than the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic810x.u100	Minister, thank you very much for your response. First of all, I am pleased that Infrabel replied about this project, because the information disclosed by the press article was worrying. It is difficult to place staff who do not have a good knowledge of one of the national languages or who do not have sufficient skills to work in an unsafe area. I also welcome your reaction. The mail sent to Infrabel is necessary, because this situation is frequently reported. Infrabel defends himself and I can understand the company. However, behind this multiplication of construction sites, it will be necessary to ensure that Infrabel's objectives and intentions in terms of safety and subcontracting management can be properly framed in practice. You took your responsibilities by writing to society. We in Parliament will have to ensure that the objectives and means put in place at Infrabel to manage these subcontracting issues are properly monitored and used. Indeed, there are great ambitions for the rail and many future construction sites to repair the old weather and ensure the safety of the network. This issue of outsourcing and how it will be managed will be important. We will have to carry out this work in this House.
