ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u1	Madam Minister, I did indeed want to go back to the important Federal Disability Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers last July. This plan has no fewer than 145 commitments to promote the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in our society, we hope, at the end of the legislature. My question specifically concerns the registration system linked to the use of so-called scanners, which allows the payment of the fee to be verified by scanning the registration plates of parked vehicles, previously encoded by the drivers themselves when the tickets are paid. For disabled people, this control of parking is still a problem, since they do not have the possibility of registering a plate number at the time, while at the same time benefiting from the interest, inherent in their card, in any case in certain cities and municipalities, and in particular in the City of Brussels, which you obviously know well. I say "some cities and municipalities", since in order to allow disabled people to benefit from free parking, other municipalities have developed a system of registration of the plates in advance for persons with disabilities. Nevertheless, the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities (CSNH) issued a negative opinion in 2020, considering that the registration of the plate is not in conformity with the federal legislation which links the card to a user, not to mention that the multiplicity of rules for parking between municipalities constitutes, according to the CSNPH, an obstacle to the freedom of movement of the person, whether Belgian or European. Minister, have you been aware of this problem? Do you intend to convene an interdepartmental conference in the near future to enable the integration of a system for the benefit of the user holding a parking card for disabled persons?Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u2	Mrs Rohonyi, I hear your concern about the problem of scanners. We have often discussed this in committee. This year, I was regularly questioned by civil society, Unia and the CSNPH. This is why, on 26 April, a meeting was held between the competent firms, mine and those of the ministers of Mobility Gilkinet, Peeters, De Bue and Van den Brandt, and the representatives of the scan-cars which are the communes. During the meeting, several tracks were mentioned to link the parking card to the vehicle such as, for example, pre-registration of license plates, manual control, technological tracks, etc. Different tracks are now on the table. My firm insisted that the solutions chosen should not impose an additional administrative burden on persons with disabilities. The solution must therefore come from cities and municipalities and the use of the map must remain flexible, which is what it is today. I recall that today, a card is not linked to a license plate. You can change the car card. On 22 November 2021, in collaboration with Mr Gilkinet's office, I met the Unions des Villes et Communes Brussels, Flemish and Walloon. At the end of this interview, we were presented with two solutions. These are currently being analysed within my administration. I wait for the results and then share them with you and the CSNPH we have been working with since I took office. As you know, at the end of 2021, an interministerial conference was also held. Within this framework, this theme has also been raised and is considered a priority. But the role of the Union of Cities and Municipalities and of the municipalities is fundamental. The solution will have to come from these. These are their responsibilities. My administration will continue to grant PMR cards until then. I hope that the two technical analyses under way will be completed and will be presented to you soon so that a common solution can be found across the regions. It is important to know that paper cards will always be necessary for the foreigner because, abroad, it is still another system. This is complex because this card is used everywhere, but the technology that has been introduced into the municipalities has not taken into account the particularities of the PMRs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u3	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer and for your work, particularly in consultation with the various actors involved, in order to find an acceptable solution to this problem; in particular, to ensure, as you rightly said, that the fine-tuning solution does not add an additional administrative burden for people with disabilities. It would just be nonsense. I hear that today, two leads are on the table and are analyzed by your administration. I would have liked to know when these leads were sent for advice to your administration and when we are, therefore, entitled to hope for the results. I also hear that the final word will belong to the Union of Cities and Municipalities. The answer could therefore be different from one Region to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u4	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u5	Consultation is indeed extremely important to ensure that there is uniformity in the use of the card for parking card holders, both to facilitate the lives of persons with disabilities and to ensure equal treatment for them, especially when it is known that it is the federal government that is competent to set the criteria for issuing the card. In the end, it would be a nonsense to arrive at different solutions from one Region to another. I hear that there is a will to ensure consistency with that, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u6	Madam Minister, since you put the problem of the second pillar of pensions on the political agenda, this response continues to go unnoticed, both with employers, employees and with insurance institutions. For the government, the tax impact is quite considerable. We are talking here about the EUR 2 billion per year, while the objective is barely achieved, namely to supplement the lowest pensions. This has been made clear by the Court of Auditors' report. In La Libre Belgique of 22 December 2021, Assuralia also comes up with a number of ideas. What is the agenda of the meetings of the inter-Ministerial Cabinets which will meet again from January? What options are on the table to strengthen and democratize the second pillar? What is your opinion on Assuralia's idea of linking an increase or extension of the second pillar to wage negotiations, within its margin?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u7	Madam Minister, a study by research agency Ipsos commissioned by Assuralia in December 2021 shows that there are still many obstacles to the supplementary pension. The survey with 300 employers shows that only three out of ten want to start up or expand a supplementary pension. One of the main obstacles for employers is the guarantee of return, which is understandable. The rate of return on the banks is currently very low and should be at least 1.75%. At the same time, we agreed in the coalition agreement that we consider the second pillar to be complementary to the first, legal, pillar. That is also very important for our party. There is also a need to broaden and deepen. Together with Sigedis, Assuralia will work on a number of projects on pension education, but also in the report some solutions are put forward. An example of this is an easing of the guarantee of return. It is also suggested that the supplementary pension will be part of the social dialogue and that the knowledge of it will be improved. We ourselves believe that, as far as the guarantee of return is concerned, there should be an opportunity to deviate from this at the level of the social partners and of the sectors, especially in economically difficult times such as now. That's a suggestion that the CD&V pushes forward. What do you think of the solutions proposed in the study? What do you think of each of these proposals? In your pension note, you argue for an improvement in the knowledge about supplementary pension and in Action Line 4 'A more transparent second pillar' states that the directive would be transposed into social legislation and that you are committed to clear communication on mypension.be. Will you ensure that, in addition to sufficient employees, employers are adequately informed? If so, in what way? How will you integrate these projects between Sigedis and Assuralia into your pension reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u8	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u9	Madam Secretary, yesterday CD&V unpacked big with her retirement plan. Your coalition partner has a clearly defined idea about pensions. It does please me since I've been waiting a long time for yours. I'll come back later. The party pleads for a mandatory supplementary pension, through a mandatory minimum contribution for each employee and civil servant. As part of the discussion of the legislative proposal, I have just heard some dissonant noises about this within the coalition. According to the CD&V, employers should contribute at least 3% to the gross wage mass and employees should also be given an opportunity to make their own contribution. The coalition agreement states: "As regards the second pillar of pensions, it remains an objective to further generalise them. In a first step, harmonisation between workers and servants in the field of supplementary pensions must be brought to a successful conclusion. At the same time, the social partners are invited to consider how each employee can be covered as quickly as possible by a supplementary pension plan which includes a contribution of at least 3% of gross wage." In the coalition agreement there was a generalisation of the second pension pillar. Do you also apply for a compulsory supplementary pension for employees and civil servants? Have the social partners been able to consider how each employee can be covered as quickly as possible by a supplementary pension plan covering a contribution of at least 3% of gross wage? From when will every employee in our country be entitled to a supplementary pension? What timing will you link to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u10	Madam President, Minister, in your policy statement you indicated your desire to seek harmonisation within the second pillar. You want all existing discriminations to be eliminated in the pension plans by 2025. It is indeed important, we believe, that access to the second pillar should also be extended. Today, not every employee has access to a supplementary pension. In concrete terms, 36% of employees do not have access to it. For the rest of the employees, who are actively building up supplementary pension rights, the accumulated pension contributions are far apart. So there are a lot of challenges in this area. Assuralia surveyed the main incentives and obstacles that motivate or prevent employers from implementing or extending a pension plan. This survey showed that a large majority, in particular 75% of employers, are convinced of the importance of a second pillar. They also consider that a number of government measures can further facilitate the second pillar. As a possible incentive, they mention, among other things, the possibility of voluntary workers' contributions at the top of the employer's contributions, the minimum return guarantee at an insurable level and, finally, the pension contributions outside the wage standard. The latter can of course not only be decided by you, but will have to be done through social dialogue. It won't be easy, there's nothing new under the sun. What concrete measures will you take to further extend access to the second pillar? What do you think of the suggestions made by employers, knowing that you cannot all decide for yourself? Is that a possible piste for you, would you please make that negotiable? What timing will you follow with regard to those specific measures? After all, every lost year remains a lost year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have taken note of the results of the Ipsos study commissioned by Assuralia. The results do not strike me as pessimistic. Only one third of companies today see little or no potential for further development of the second pillar. That means that two thirds do see or not exclude this potential. I also share the analysis of the study to strengthen confidence in the system. That's the message I've been sending since my arrival. The study also formulates proposals. I fully agree with some of them, including transparency. Others seem less happy to me, just because they harm or can harm confidence. I am referring, for example, to the proposal to reduce the legal guarantee of return. I do not know how to convince employees about the supplementary pension if we do not give them the guarantee that their savings at the retirement age are worth at least as much as they are today. I do not think that the voluntary deposit system for workers is a good basis either. Workers with a limited second pillar can make additional payments on an individual basis today. However, this formula has a very limited success. I am therefore convinced that we must seek solutions within the two collective pillars. Indeed, supplementary pensions are the result of social consultation, Mrs De Block. We will only succeed in fundamentally strengthening the second pillar, and that is my clear will when it is shared by workers and employers. As provided for in the coalition agreement, we will ask the social partners to make concrete proposals in this area. The study identifies a number of options, such as the structural inclusion of the second pillar in the social dialogue, whether or not with a compulsory structure, but also others, for example in relation to wage standards. It is up to the social partners to work on this. The pension file will be discussed at the core in the following weeks. My intention is to be able to start the work of the social partners within the National Pension Committee as soon as possible. As regards the discrimination within the supplementary pension, to which Mrs De Block refers, I would like to remind you of the agreement reached by the social partners in June. This has now been legally anchored. You know that, with the stand still. Let me conclude by saying something about transparency. Improving the transparency of statutory and supplementary pensions is essential for the confidence of both employees and employers. Information on the second pillar suffers today from a lack of comprehensibility and uniformity. This must be done better and I am pleased that the insurance sector shares this analysis. At the moment, together with Mr Clarinval, I am finalising a preliminary draft law which should allow us to take a major step forward in this area. The strengthening of the role of Sigedis and mypension.be to which Assuralia refers is a central element. So we'll be back together soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u12	Madam President, we are starting the year optimistically! The second pillar was sold politically for a long time in order to increase government-paid pensions. The first pillar is too low. You will not be surprised that my party has been advocating for years that we should focus more on a good first pillar of statutory pensions. Let us be honest: the second pillar will never or never deal with the problem of low pensions. It's unfeasible and impossible. The more the investment in the second pillar is increased, the more expensive it will be for the Treasury on tax deduction, which in turn leads to savings in other areas. In the context of the lowest pensions and de facto the most vulnerable, the second pillar needs to be thoroughly reviewed, without affecting acquired rights. You know we're waiting for your plan with a visa waiver. We look forward to that with great enthusiasm. Hopefully we can expect something soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For us, the first pillar remains the most important, the basis. We have also included in our pension plan proposals to strengthen the first pillar, because we already see that there are considerable differences with other countries. With us the replacement rate is 62 %, but abroad it is higher, up to 67 %. We need to do something about that. At the same time, we must also focus on the second pillar, the supplementary pension, because it effectively strengthens the first pillar. We are also seeing many inequalities in the second pillar today between those with the highest pay and those with the lowest pay. At the lowest, only one third of people have the second pillar, at the highest wages, above EUR 100,000, which is almost 90%. We see a great deal of inequality: 20% of the capital saved today in the second pillar is at 1% of those with supplementary pensions. 70% of the members have only 10% of the money saved. Those are huge differences. We therefore believe that there should be an extension so that it is accessible to all. The excesses must be eliminated. We prefer to see this become compulsory, and the coalition agreement provides for a roadmap for this. Of course, we are asking for consultation with trade unions and employers, but preferably we see it mandatory, if not today or in the medium term. The guarantee of return is a problem in economically difficult times, so a solution has to be found in order to be able to deviate from it. We have launched a proposal to that effect. We also believe that, in addition to an employer's obligation of 3%, the employee should also be allowed to make a contribution on top of that at least 3%. Madam Minister, if that is not enough of a success today, we need to work on it. Finally, Madam Secretary, we look forward to your plans. You say you're taking it to the core on Friday. We therefore hope to see you back here in committee as soon as possible, in order to obtain further explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u14	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. You will not be surprised that we too prefer a strong statutory pension. Very important steps have already been taken in this area, which are anchored until 2024. There is an increase in the minimum pension. There is also the increase in the wage ceiling and the abolition of the correction coefficient. So steps have already been taken. Of course, it can always be better, so that the last pension corresponds to the last wage earned. Nevertheless, steps can also be taken in the area of democratisation of the second pillar. The Court of Auditors has indicated that there are many inequalities in this area. I am pleased to hear from you that you do not think that the adjustment of the minimum guarantee and the guarantee of return is a good idea. To be honest, that's what I think, too. After all, how can one still have confidence in such a system, even if it is a supplement to the pension, when it is almost useless? Supplementary pensions, which are part of a pension policy, must guarantee that there is a certain return. Otherwise, one may as well invest and not save one's salary in such a pension fund. In that sense, I am satisfied with your answer. I also see, of course, that it is true that the consultation will determine this. There is also the stand still, which is agreed. So I see a lot of obstacles on the road to democratization myself. In any case, I wish you every success in further discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u15	Madam Secretary, I look forward to next Friday. I will certainly follow everything well and as soon as there is news, I will be able to respond I noticed that you didn't explain anything about the officials. However, I had asked a question about this. After all, you want to work with Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u17	That is not always the case, there are also federal officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u18	For federal officials, the second pillar is in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u19	Anyway, the file is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u20	There is a second pillar for federal officials. However, the local level is the local level. There is also the autonomy of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u21	That's right, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u22	Madam Minister, I had actually come to the committee to get answers from you and not to listen to the CD&V programme, which has just been thrown into the press. [[Hilarity]] However, I have known Mrs Lanjri for a long time and I know that she will continue to try, which is a credit to her. Only sometimes it's a bit annoying for us to have to listen to that every time. I was here the first time a legislative initiative was taken on the second pillar, more than 20 years ago. I was a reporter back then, too. Minister Vandenbroucke was still Minister of Pensions and Social Affairs when that law was passed. At that time, there was a very serious discussion about the guarantee of return. However, just that guarantee has convinced many people to get into the second pillar anyway. It is true that people with a second pillar, but with a lower income, can contribute less to that second pillar than others. Nevertheless, this contribution can be an important percentage at the end of the journey just on the lowest pension income in the first pillar. The sum of the first and second pillars, which are then put together in the bank account, is the sum that the person concerned may issue. Those who do not have it have a lower amount. So it's still interesting for people. One day the calculations were made of how many storage people would have with the same deposit in the first pillar. Know also that there is a great deal of solidarity in this area and that this is topped off in many ways, both in the self-employed and in the workforce. The replacement rate of wages also depends on the level of wages and any pension. That will be a delicate discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u23	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes for your health and happiness for this new year. Minister, the fact that students are involved in prostitution is no longer a new phenomenon and is becoming more and more frequent, including in our country. Indeed, it was published in 2018 that every year more than 6,000 Belgian students would prostitute themselves, or 2% of the student population. This mainly affects students in financial precariousness. The health crisis and its economic effects strongly reinforce this precariousness and raise concerns that the number of students concerned is increasing. Minister, are you aware of the statistics/balance sheets on these practices in 2021? If so, how many students are currently involved? What federal assistance and support measures (or mechanisms) are currently in place to assist these students? What is the FPS planning to do to make these measures more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, allow me to thank you for your good wishes. I also wish you a very beautiful year of 2022. Your question was forwarded to me by Minister Van Quickenborne. You know that I'm not really competent in this because it's about students and prostitution. However, given the importance of the subject, I felt it necessary for a member of the government to respond to it. We all remember shocking and revolting advertisements around universities a few years ago, which boasted and trivialized student prostitution. That was totally unacceptable. The SPP Social Integration does not have student-specific prostitution figures. Moreover, the phenomenon appears to be poorly studied in Belgium. I am not aware of any figures that are more recent than those you quote and that are already far too high. However, this phenomenon persists and we can fear that the crisis will strengthen it. Student precariousness, whatever its form, is a tragedy, even more so when it affects physical integrity and when it pushes young people, especially young women, to put themselves at risk (violence, health, crime, psychological well-being, etc.).). In normal times and in times of crisis other solutions exist. No young person should have to do this to support themselves. In addition to scholarships and social services in schools, young people must not hesitate: I know that it is complicated to push the door of CPAS. There is no shame in that, on the contrary. I would like to point out that there is no expenditure on youth, there are only investments. CPAS have the means to support young people in their studies, whether it be one-off financial aid, material aid, psychological guidance or social integration income (RIS). In the context of my tasks of combating poverty and social integration, and in this context of crisis, I would like to support young people – students or not – with targeted and concrete measures, with a tightening of the available resources. We have released €24 million for CPAS for young people between 18 and 25 years of age. It was almost a year ago and it is still valid until the end of March. We have removed discrimination between scholarship and non-student students for young RIS beneficiaries who have a student job. There is the covid premium for RIS beneficiaries, strengthening and accompaniment of young people by CPAS through a PIIS grant. There's 3 million for mental health. We have also strengthened food aid and the means to combat menstrual insecurity. These means must be made known. As part of the development of the Anti-Poverty Plan, there will be a youth perspective as we work with the FEF, the Youth Forum, Scanner, etc. I also called for the creation in February 2021 of a youth ICD at the beginning of the crisis. I am pleased that it will be held in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. You recalled the initiatives you are taking to reduce the financial hardship that some students are suffering from. It would be important and useful to have much more targeted channels of information to these students who suffer, and who sometimes resort to prostitution. We absolutely must fight this serious phenomenon and I will always be at your side to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u26	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u27	The minimum age for a survivor's pension was slowly raised from 2015 to reach the age of 50 in 2025. The previous government decided to raise that age even further and faster to 55 in 2030. The Constitutional Court ruled on 30 November 2017 that, as a result of the last increase in the minimum age for a survivor's pension, certain widows and widowers find themselves in a precarious situation. Normally, a survivor's pension should occur in principle. It goes completely against the principle of standstill, as provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution. Indeed, I have also found that legislation by the previous government has not yet been brought into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Since it is a matter of higher case law, it has an immediate effect. Because this is a situation that relates to 2025, we will ensure that legislation has been brought into line in time to avoid legal certainty and uncertainty for the longest-lived partners. Many legislative texts will still be discussed in Parliament. In order to avoid too many small divided files, this will be included in a large package of regulatory adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u28	Madam Minister, in 2017, the Constitutional Court indeed decided that the government should not raise the minimum age to the age of 55. They said that would be unreasonable. However, the legislation has not yet been amended. The increase has not yet entered, we still have time until 2025. However, a number of people on the ground are calling for this to be put right as soon as possible. We have to make it legal. I hope that you will soon include various provisions in a law. I would have liked to amend it in December, but it was too late to table an amendment. In the short term, I look forward to an amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u29	Madam Minister, in September you put forward a protested pension reform proposal. In the autumn you would make a new proposal; during the discussion of the budget and the policy papers they spoke of'soon'. My first question has already been answered, because it was when it was in your experience'soon'. That should be next Friday. On that day, you will present your proposal in the nuclear cabinet, but we will of course not be home yet. Yet I ask you, purely out of interest, the following questions as well. Which partners, parties, academics and others have you spoken to in the last month? Since I'm a little curious, can you give me some information on the details of the topics discussed? What discussions have you scheduled for the coming time and with whom? I look forward to your answer, probably briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u30	Mr Van der Donkt, as you know, in September, in consultation with the Prime Minister, it was decided to postpone the discussion on the future pension system. This period allowed me to have more in-depth contacts with all stakeholders. Since then, numerous meetings have been organised with the majority parties, the social partners, civil society organisations and academics from almost all universities. Next week, we will discuss the conclusion of these meetings within the government. The concrete measures will be negotiated in the coming weeks. The social partners will also continue to work on structural yards so that they can propose additional measures to improve our pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm gonna have to sit on my hunger for a while. Maybe next week's better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u32	It is a tease of Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u33	Madam Secretary, my question concerns the abuses at Poverello. This non-profit association was established in Brussels in 1978. She then opened a shelter for poor people. The symbol of that organization is the open door. With ten departments in Flanders, three in Brussels and two in Wallonia, Poverello is one of the country's largest homeless organisations. Research by journalists has shown that this organization prefers to receive, keep up with and invest in real estate rather than spend on caring for the poor. I find what that research has brought to light very shocking. Apparently, EUR 50 million in real estate and EUR 14 million in cash has been saved together. This wealth is in stark contrast to the poor support the organization offers to its target audience, the homeless. They have to pay for meals and also pay 300 euros per month for a bed in a dormitory and 450 euros for a single room. Whoever lives there must also direct himself, so that people can also claim a living wage, which goes to Poverello. People under 50 are excluded from restaurants and night care. That open door is therefore very relative. The number of beds for homeless people throughout the country remains below 100, to the great displeasure of many volunteers, who help many people much more people than has been the case so far. They note at the same time that the many donations received by the organisation do not go to homeless people, but to the purchase of churches, chalets, forests and apartments that have nothing to do with social services. If they request access to the accounts, they will be sent away. What is your view on the overall functioning and bank account of this poverty organisation? What donations, subsidies, project or other collaborations have been made between the federal government and Poverello in the past? Are there rules on the investment opportunities of non-profit organisations such as Poverello? If not, are you prepared to do something about it? Is it possible to limit such non-profit organisations in saving such gifts? What other possibilities do you see to make such practices impossible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u34	Mrs Reynaert, all means in the fight against poverty, whether they come from private donors or from the government, must be used for what they are meant to be, selfless and according to strict integrity rules. If the information in the media about Poverello is correct, and subject to any legal action, we must be very alert to any request for support from this non-profit organisation. In any case, all applications for grants are thoroughly examined by my services. Each ministerial grant decision contains a reference to the Act of 20 May 2003. My services do not find any evidence of subsidies to the non-profit organisation Poverello. If this non-profit organisation is subsidised by other federal public institutions, these services will be able to respond to the applicable rules. The optional grants that my services manage are only intended to finance the operating and personnel costs of projects and not for investments. Your question about the wealth of this non-profit association is interesting in itself, but I am not authorized to carry out an audit or to draw up rules on the assets of an non-profit organisation. I can only check that the optional subsidies are being used correctly. The checks carried out by my services on the grants granted are thus a preventive means of detecting and correcting abuses. In addition, almost all grants are first submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate and approved in the budget. I therefore believe that the existing procedures are in line with the objective of proper use of public funds. Finally, I would also like to stress that the vast majority of non-profit organisations are doing an excellent job. Often they do so with little resources, but always with conviction to help people in poverty in a professional way. This particular case should not cause us to doubt the fact that most organisations carry out very valuable work every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u35	Madam Minister, the vast majority of non-profit organisations are indeed doing their job in an excellent and correct way. It is therefore a great pity that such matters are now besmirching their good name. I am pleased that you have examined the possible flows of subsidies to the organisation, so there are no such cases and that checks are carried out thoroughly. The question of whether there are opportunities to draw up investment rules for these non-profit organisations is whether you are not competent. That might be worth a debate. Perhaps you could mention it to your colleagues to do something about it. What has happened there is unacceptable and simply besmirches the good name of poverty organisations that are doing their job thoroughly. It also has a major social impact. After all, when people hear that, they wonder what happens to other organisations. If there are no clear rules or rules, those questions will live. I am therefore looking at you to raise this issue with your colleagues, if necessary, in order to see what you can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u36	Madam Minister, if someone loses their European Disability Card, this person can apply for a new card from one of the five recognised bodies. This is also indicated on the website of the government, with the questions asked. However, I have received emails and testimonies from people who state that they cannot get a new card when it is lost a second time. That seems very disproportionate to me, since these people also need the card to be able to get certain benefits in terms of sport, culture or leisure time, or to prove that they have a certain handicap. I can understand that an administrative cost is charged when the card is lost for a fourth or fifth time. But completely refusing the card doesn't seem correct, even absurd to me. People have a right to that. One has a disability, so the card should be delivered, unless there is fraud. But that's not the point. Can you ensure that people with disabilities and who have lost their European Disability Card get a new copy, even if they have lost it more than once? Can they receive a duplicate? Today, apparently, that is not the case, according to the testimonies I have received. Are you willing to do something about this? If so, then that is a good thing. If not, why not? Can you clarify to the competent services how they should deal with this so that they can inform people correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u37	Mrs Lanjri, I have discussed this situation with my administration and instructed them to clarify the rules for granting the EDC card so that people with disabilities can apply for a new card more than once. As announced in my policy paper, I want to further develop the EDC in 2022, including within the working group of the IMC Wellness, Sport and Family, which was recently reactivated. We want to examine a new agreement between the Belgian partners who issue the EDC. This year we will also be strongly committed to a promotion of this card, starting with the launch of the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u38	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am glad that you agree with me that it is not possible for people to get a new card when they lose it more than once. I am pleased that you have instructed your administration not to do so anymore and to clarify this on the website. I would also like to refer to the resolution I tabled on better use and distribution of the European disability card. That resolution was put forward in committee for the first time yesterday. We're definitely going to talk about it in the future. They are recommendations, and I hope that you will be able to implement them later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u39	Mrs Lanjri, I have already told you that I had a good conversation with the Belgian anti-poverty network, the BAPN, in December. I also told you that I would like to take the time to discuss this dossier thoroughly, first of all with my administration and cabinet. There will then be consultations with a number of partners, including the Federation of OCMWs. At this stage, therefore, I cannot explain to you what kind of reform I will propose. I do think you agree with me that we should avoid the debate on this reform leading to certain polarisation of opponents and opponents of, for example, the abolition of sanctions. All the more reason why I want to take the necessary time to come up with feasible proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u40	I did indeed ask questions on this subject last time. That was just before your conversation with the BAPN. In the meantime, you've had that conversation. I am sure I can understand the fact that you still want to look at this with your administration. So I will wait and ask again about a state of affairs in a month or two. The individualised project for social integration (GPMI) has absolutely positive elements in it. This is an instrument to ensure that people with a living wage are well guided towards social integration. That's not always work, it can also be volunteering or something else, or solving problems. It is a good tool, but it is not properly implemented everywhere. There are still problems. These can be noted both by the analysis made by your administration and by the analysis made by other experts in the field. There are many parallels. In the meantime, there are a lot of proposals. I am asking you to get to work on these analyses and proposals. Hopefully, a number of concrete improvements will soon be possible without abolishing the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u41	Question No 55023874C by Mrs Fonck is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u42	Madam Minister, the problem of high energy costs for families is not yours for the first time. The price increases are so high that what we feared is unfortunately true. Market leader ENGIE Electrabel already catalogs 10% of its customers as defaulters. These are people who are no longer able to pay their increased advance or settlement bills or who have applied for a distribution plan. However, a distribution plan does not solve the problem, quite the contrary. In two and a half months' time, the extended social tariff will in principle be discontinued. At that time, those concerned should look for a commercial supplier on the market itself. The situation is therefore going from evil to worse. Madam Minister, will you argue in favour of maintaining the extended social tariff and thus extending it after the end of March? What steps will you take with the government for a wide range of measures to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that you have spoken to me about this, and it is not the first time that I have had to say that energy prices and measures to mitigate the impact of price increases on consumers are not within my remit. I therefore ask you once again to ask your questions to the Minister responsible. This government has taken action. Anyone entitled to an extended social rate will receive an energy check of 80 euros in particular. The Gas and Electricity Fund, which helps people who cannot pay their energy bills, has been indexed and refinanced. It was allocated EUR 8 million and EUR 16 million respectively. Moreover, the social tariff has been extended for the first three months of this year, with a budget of EUR 208 million. If the energy crisis continues, my colleagues are likely to ask for the extension of this measure, which benefits almost one million Belgians. My colleagues continue to look for the best solutions to help people in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u44	Madam Minister, I remember the answer you gave to my question at a previous meeting. However, I insist that this is a problem of poverty. Excuse me, but in recent weeks we have been able to see that the members of the government are very united about the fact that they do not always agree with each other. A VAT demand, a bounty here and there. It's all not that clear. The energy bill is actually a tax bill, but it seems that it does not want to be affected as much as possible. A few days ago, there was a price comparison in the newspaper. We are the best in Europe when it comes to the level of the energy price and we are second in terms of taxes and taxes included in the energy account. We often hear that it "will be looked at within the government." We hope the light doesn't go out before everything is finally looked at. It's long past 12:05. More and more people are victims of this government's non-policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u45	Madam Minister, one of the priorities in your policy paper, which I also support, is to better inform citizens about their pension rights. Therefore, you will continue to make efforts to further develop mypension.be. Of course, not everyone has access to a computer. To close that digital divide, you also provide professional access to mypension.be, where civil society workers at civil society organisations, OCMWs and so on can guide citizens in all their steps of information collection or interaction with the Federal Pension Service. These people will act as intermediaries between citizens and the Pension Service and have access to high-quality information. In addition, you want to develop a generic mandate system for citizens so that other persons, such as directors and family members, can have secure access to the personal pension file and family members or people who have been more difficult to assist in digital access. How will you implement these points in concrete terms? Have any concrete steps been taken in this regard? What's the possible timing? Which civil society organisations or institutions are involved? Have you discussed this with them? In what way will they be involved in the different steps of implementation? You mentioned a mandate system for family members or directors, but can professionals also get that mandate system, such as with Tax-on-web, so that they can effectively support those people and have access to the personal pension system? Will professionals also receive access to mypension.be and these people will assist a contact person with the Federal Pension Service to whom they can contact with any additional questions? This would make the exchange of information easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u46	Mrs Vanrobaeys, thanks to the new functions proposed, mypension.be is becoming an increasingly important tool. Not only does it give a full overview of all pension rights, but it can also simulate the impact of career changes. For me, one of the most important pillars of transparency policy is to close the digital divide and avoid all obstacles to digitally vulnerable people. This plays a major role, but not only, in the older population. All digitally vulnerable should also be able to get a full picture of their pension rights. To contribute to this, I decided to extend the support via mypension.be. One of the measures is to provide professional access to mypension.be. This allows civil society workers and/or civil society organisations to accompany citizens in all their steps of information collection or interaction with the Federal Pension Service. To give a concrete answer to your timing questions, I have included this theme in the new governance agreement 2022-2024 with the Federal Pension Service, which is currently being finalised. In 2022, I instructed the Pension Service to fully map the legal, organisational and technical framework conditions. Today it is already possible to be accompanied by the local municipal official when applying for a pension, but as you know, I would like to extend this professional access, and preferably as soon as possible. This calls for some preparation by the administrations. On this basis, the administration will prepare a plan for implementation this year and start implementing it. Indeed, closing the digital gap in pensions is one of my priority objectives for this legislature. As far as the civil society organisations concerned are concerned, it is important for me to first contact the actors of the secondary social security networks and local authorities. The talks with the parties concerned are in full swing and I hope that you will soon confirm the services involved. It is also intended that the professionals are supported by a permanent contact person in the administration. We worked this out together with the administration. The operational feasibility and the exact modalities are mapped out by the administration. Whether or not the generic mandate system will be used will have to indicate the analysis referred to in the reply to point 1. I have instructed the administration to provide the best solutions, which are most appropriate for the different types of professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u47	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that progress is being made. This is, after all, a question that has long existed among civil society organisations, because they have developed a certain expertise and can very well assist their members or other interested parties to consult their rights and to close the digital divide. Moreover, they are very close to the people, giving them a lot of input and being able to communicate very directly. I am very pleased that steps are being taken forward and look forward to that analysis. It is important that civil society organisations are involved and that their expertise in this area can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u48	Madam Secretary, if he or she does not want to lose that survivor's pension, he or she may earn only limited additional earnings. That rule has long led to a lot of agitation on the part of those involved. Due to the COOVID-19 pandemic, a derogation was granted to the scheme, for example to assist and relieve healthcare workers. Now there is an interpretation problem. Several nurses inform us that their management would not be aware of this, so that they would not be able to make a full commitment as a nurse in a hospital or as a volunteer in a vaccination centre, otherwise they would be above that limit and would lose their survivor's pension. Is it true that people with a survivor's pension in health care and in vaccination centres are allowed to work and thus earn extra income without losing their survivor's pension? The list has been closed since 1 July 2020. Does this mean that the elimination of the cumulation scheme is not without object? The scheme expires at the end of March 2022. In view of the persistent sanitary condition, will you prolong it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u49	I can reassure you, Mrs. Samyn. The problems to which you refer have already been dealt with in the Programme Act. Articles 116 and 117 of that Act amend Article 3 of the Law of 7 May 2020, to which you refer in your question. On the one hand, Article 116 of the Programme Act updates the reference to key sectors and essential services. On the other hand, Article 117 of the Programme Act extends the neutralisation of occupational income for staff from the care sector and in vaccination centres. In this way, we can avoid negative consequences for pensioners. The extension shall apply for the period from 1 October 2021 to 30 June 2022. This means that, until the end of June 2022, persons with a survivor's pension may also earn unlimited additional income in the care and vaccination centres, without losing their survivor's pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u50	Thank you for your reassurance, Madam Secretary. This has been miscommunicated by the Pension Service, both by telephone and by e-mail. I had already read the information you have now provided on the website, but I wanted clarification. Especially during a pandemic, extra hands in care and in vaccination centres are more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u51	I will look at that again with my services and clearly communicate through the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u52	It is correct on the website, only the Pension Service itself had miscommunicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, convergence is indeed included in the coalition agreement. We're working on that, too. The increase in the minimum pension already contributes to convergence. The amounts increase more strongly among employees and the self-employed, in order to be fully equal in 2024. Indexing does not, however, lead to an increase in existing differences between systems. All wages, bets and social benefits are indexed, which means that the relative difference remains constant. Nor does the application of the correlation increase the differences between the systems. It concerns the pure application of the existing rules. In the private sector, welfare adjustments are also applied in the context of welfare development. Therefore, these two mechanisms are not part of the reforms that are on the table. I will not be the minister who will shape the depreciation of social benefits and pensions. On the contrary, I guarantee robust pension protection, even after retirement. Of course, forecasts are being made about the evolution of expenditure, as is the case for all systems. Only an adjustment of the betting scales themselves can lead to matching, not the indexing of the betting within the current betting scale. On the budgetary impact of indexations, the FPD makes forecasts for all systems. The nominal cost of pensions increases, which is normal with indexations. However, for the budgetary impact, revenue should also be taken into account, which also depends on inflation. So we don't know yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u54	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. What you say about indexations and the differences between civil servants' pensions on the one hand, which are higher anyway, amazes me a little. This is a higher nominal amount, so if they are indexed, they will receive relatively more than the lower pensions. That increases the gap. You agree with that, don't you? My question is what you will do about it, so that these differences do not get bigger and bigger. That makes sense, 3 per cent of 100 euros or 1,000 euros is 3 per cent each time, but that 1,000 euros will increase more than 100 euros. The question is what you will do about it, but you will probably reconsider it. I didn't say what I wanted. I'm just establishing that this is happening. Perhaps there is a solution there, because it is your practice to bring the systems closer together. I had hoped you would have an answer to that, but you will probably take that into account in the debates. I hope you will take it with you in the negotiations you are going to conduct, in your steps and in the thinking you still have ahead of you. I merely point out that it is a point on which I think the necessary attention needs to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u55	Madam Minister, in June 2021, the EU Child Guarantee was approved by the European Council. Our country has agreed to this and has also committed itself to combating child poverty and exclusion intensively and to ensuring that all children can participate fully in society. This EU Child Guarantee contains a lot of recommendations to provide children in poverty with access to basic services such as childcare, education, health care, healthy nutrition and housing. It is up to our country to turn these recommendations into effective policies. We need to have a national action plan by 15 March 2022 in which we clearly indicate how we will implement this EU Child Guarantee. You mentioned earlier that the Social Integration PPS has appointed a national coordinator for this Child Guarantee and that it will cooperate with the administrations of the Länder, because it is largely the responsibility of the Länder to bring it to a successful conclusion. However, I have received signals from civil society organisations, including the Children's Rights Coalition, which includes some 29 organisations, that civil society is not sufficiently involved, or even at all, in the drafting of that plan, whereas Europe should. This while they have a lot of experience and expertise and can provide very valuable input on the implementation of that EU Child Guarantee. In addition, they fear that the plan will focus mainly on existing legislation, which they seem to have taken up, and that there is little ambition to go beyond what already exists today. However, one in five children still live in poverty in our country today. It is therefore essential, in my view, and I think that you are also in favour of being much more ambitious in this area and taking new measures to change that. How will you involve civil society organisations? Have you involved them yet? Who else will you involve? Will you ensure that there is an ambitious plan that goes beyond what already exists? What recommendations from the EU Child Guarantee do you want to implement in that action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u56	Mrs Lanjri, for a few months now, the Social Integration PPS has been coordinating the development of the action plan under the European Child Guarantee. For this purpose, it cooperates with the departments designated by the Länder. Since the Recommendation was adopted in mid-June 2021 and the Plan is due to be ready by 15 March 2022, all Cabinets have decided to cooperate on the basis of existing laws, plans and initiatives. They have often been developed together with stakeholders and civil society and form a solid basis for the work. You should not forget that this recommendation was made when the budgets and policy plans for this legislature were drawn up. Nevertheless, the Child Guarantee marks a new way to implement Belgian policy on children. We are pleased that this issue is on the European agenda. This must be a lever for our policies. The Action Plan is developed in cooperation with the National Commission on the Rights of the Child. It brings together about 90 organisations in the field of children's rights. A consultation with the Belgian Platform against Poverty and Social Exclusion and various guests is planned for mid-February 2022. Finally, the PPS Social Integration has proactively contacted several other organisations. I have already spoken with the Délégué général aux droits de l'enfant, the French-speaking Commissioner for Children's Rights, and will soon be sitting with the Flemish Commissioner for Children's Rights and the President of the National Commission. Contrary to what is apparently feared, this inventory is an essential first step in achieving the 2030 Recommendation and European targets. The next step is to identify the shortcomings on the basis of this inventory and to take new measures at our policy level. For example, the POD is already working on a series of proposals within its domain and most, if not all, parts of the Child Guarantee fall within the competence of the Länder. Nevertheless, the fight against child poverty is an absolute priority for me. As we have already discussed, this is an essential part of the new plan against poverty and inequality. I have also decided to support in 2022 projects setting up the OMCWs under the Child Guarantee. I'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. From the EU, it was very explicitly requested that civil society organisations representing children and young people should be involved in drawing up the National Action Plan. You indicate that we have known only since mid-June, when it must be completed by 22 March. On the other hand, the budget has already been drawn up. So you're saying that the most important thing now is to make an inventory of what's going on. But you are prepared to come up with new measures afterwards. That is something, although I believe that the action plan to be presented by 22 March 2022 should be ambitious enough, and more than just an inventory of what we are already doing. After all, that does not seem to be enough. That is why I hope, Madam Minister, that we can say to Europe that step one is completed and step two is coming. I hope that we will be able to consult all the actors for the two steps and also be able to hear and involve Children's Rights Coalition Flanders, which represents 29 organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u58	Mrs Lanjri, as you rightly point out, I have included in both the Disability Action Plan and my policy paper that the definition of family categories as laid down in the Law of 27 February 1987 should be examined. We need to check whether the existing rules are still in line with the new forms of housing and if necessary adapt those rules. My administration is therefore examining the 28% reduction in the amount of integration. The first analysis showed that a linear abolition of the rule is complex. There are many different types of institutions and the statutes of the people who reside in them vary greatly. The question of payment of such forms of housing, either by the person himself or by the Länder through, for example, the personal budget in Flanders, needs to be further explored. So my administration is doing a lot of work on this. At the same time, this should also be discussed with the Länder. As you know, this consultation has recently been restarted through the IMC which I organised on 20 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your very first answer, because it is not really an answer to my question. After all, you say that your administration is working on it, but that the analysis is not yet complete. Last year we abolished the price of love. It is only logical that integration should not be reduced by living with someone. It therefore seems all the more logical to me that we do so when people move into an institution together with other people, with whom one does not even have a love relationship. I hope that this 28% retention will disappear in the future, so I look forward to your final analysis and consultation with the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u60	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the situation. I would remind you that on 3 December we took a first step with a substantial reduction in the price of labour. Thanks to the increase in the ceiling to 63.000 euros, the persons concerned will now retain their IT. Another important step was the abolition of the price of love and recently the exemption of IT in the calculation of living wage. I am absolutely convinced that IT should be a universal benefit for people with disabilities. I'm not going to leave it at that. I would like to give concrete form to the idea of anchoring part of the IT, so that those involved also retain their derived rights. So I certainly find your proposal for the symbolic euro interesting. The work is in full swing. The statutes and derived rights are a crucial issue for many families, both in the context of disability policy and more generally, in the fight against poverty and inequality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and I am also very pleased that you will consider my suggestion so that right holders always keep their integration meeting, even if it is a small amount. I was talking about the symbolic 1 euro, but of course it may also be more, if I may say so. I hope that we can fully preserve the integration process, even with a high wage, because it is actually used for integration into society. That's linked to the handicap, and that has nothing to do with the income. It is a concession through which one can participate in society. The abolition of the price of love and the limitation of the price of labor are already steps forward; now you must continue to work. I'm glad you want to do it because you have to. A large number of rights, in particular a large number of social tariffs, are linked to the existence or absence of integration. If we lose these advantages, such as the social tariff on water, gas and public transport, because we no longer have integration, then we are completely at a loss. I hope that you will be able to put this into practice as soon as possible. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic665x.u63	Question No 55024074C by Mrs Lanjri, Joined Questions Nos 5024122C and 55024192C by Mr Lanjri. Van der Donckt and Mr Colebunders' 55024195C, as well as Ms Leroy's question No 55024200C, are transformed into written questions.
