ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u1	Questions No 55023002C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No 55025608C, No 55026112C and No 55026126C by Mrs Nathalie Gilson are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u2	Secretary of State, on Wednesday 13 October 2021, the website of the European Space Agency (ESA) of Redu received the Director General of the Agency and yourself to formalize the intention to make this Luxembourg site a reference in the field of space cybersecurity. This is a real opportunity to bring the advantages of this site of the province of Luxembourg to the European or even the global stage, and I am delighted to do so. In order to carry out this project, we are talking about investments amounting to EUR 30 million by 2025. These investments may, as you mentioned, lead to jobs, both directly within ESA and indirectly between subcontractors, suppliers and others. At a time of massive post-covid public reinvestment, particularly in the new technologies sector, the federal government plays a key role, as was seen with the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mr Secretary of State, among the EUR 30 million in investments by 2025, what is the share of public funding? Does the federal state intervene in the latter? Could you give me a few more details on this? Do you already have projections in terms of jobs created in the region, in the province of Luxembourg and, more broadly, in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium is the fifth largest contributor to ESA. That should therefore mean that we have established a strong position within Europe in space policy. It is true that the efforts we are making are subject to a large return on investment. Space can therefore offer Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels many opportunities in terms of research and development and production. Space can also give a strong boost to our knowledge-based and creative economy. I have already asked you about the key used to allocate projects to the Länder. However, those questions were never fully answered. As you know, Flanders is asking for a fair return on investment. It would be only logical that the classical key should be used to allocate funds, and it might even be justified to transfer comparatively more resources to the Flemish economy, since the contributions also come to a greater extent from Flanders. The Flemish government, Minister Crevits, recently asked for structural consultations with BELSPO to enable better consultation on the distribution of ESA resources. However, you replied to Minister Crevits that such structural consultation was not possible. That's too bad, isn't it? Mr Secretary of State, why is this structural consultation not possible? It is true that space research is a federal competence, but space economy is a state competence, so I think good consultation is definitely necessary. Recently, Flanders has invested 11 million euros in the Flemish space economy impulse programme. How big is the return on investment on ESA funds at the moment? Can you give a detailed overview of the distribution of funds within the space programme between the different Länder in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u4	"Mr. Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u5	What is the place and budgetary importance that are allocated to the space domain in general and to the CBSE centre in Redu in particular in the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. In concrete terms, I would be grateful if you could clarify what concrete actions are identified and expected to be deployed in order to support the opportunities provided by ESA in our country, in Redu? Thank you for your answers." "Mr. Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u6	Thank you for your answers" "Mr. Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u7	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u8	First of all, with regard to ESA's ESA, the European Space Security and Education Centre, located in Redu, its strengthening is one of the priorities for Belgium, which I presented to Josef Aschbacher, who is the new Director General of ESA, when he was appointed. Of course, we welcome Mr Aschbacher's announcement last October concerning the investment of ESA 30 million. This investment is entirely public and will be made through contributions from ESA Member States, including Belgium. There are essentially two projects. A first project, which is the Space Cybersecurity Center of Excellence, and the other is the Space Cybersecurity Operational Center. Funding for these two projects is provided through two different budget lines within ESA, both through the general contribution and through a second line, the GSTP programme, the General Support Technology Program, which is a non-compulsory programme in which Member States participate according to their interests. For the future, it is obviously an important priority for Belgium to maintain the level of investment on the Redu site and to truly anchor this site as the epicentre of ESA's cybersecurity activities. We know that this is an activity that is likely to increase, given the proliferation of cyber threats and the importance of protecting our space assets. With regard to returns to employment and the creation of economic added value in the province of Luxembourg, Wallonia and Belgium, these investments will obviously have positive impacts, especially if they are coordinated with a territorial economic development strategy, which seems to be the case. This is the case, for having met them, in particular with the intercommunal Idelux, which develops activities all around those of ESA, especially on the site of Galaxia in Transinne. Therefore, I am pleased to see that, month after month, there are industrial actors present. However, and this is still the case for such economic studies, to be able to measure ex ante precisely what returns in terms of employment, in terms of multiplier in relation to public investment, are always complicated. But in any case, it is a priority, and I think there is an excellent coordination work that is being done, either with Minister Borsus or with the territorial actors, in particular the Intercommunal Idelux. I therefore confirm that the ESA and Belgium will be a common cause for the development of the ESCS in the coming months, particularly in relation to the ministerial of 2022, which will have to confirm the decision of 2019 to reinvest on the site of Redu. You can count on me anyway. A question has been asked at the national level for recovery and resilience, which I also coordinate under my other jurisdiction. I confirm that a budget of $10 million is allocated to a space programme run by Belspo. A call for proposals will be launched in the coming weeks or months around three main axes: secure connectivity, cyber security and data processing. The first two themes are directly related to ESA's activities. The programme was mentioned in order to be able to register in complementarity. There is also a 3 million project funded by the federal government to co-finance European projects on network systems and quantum networks. The aim is, of course, to include Belgium in these major developments, in particular the EuroQCI initiative, which aims to develop a European quantum communication infrastructure, including through its terrestrial segment financed by the European Commission, and the space segment on which ESA is working. I am obviously attentive to the role that the federal government can play through Belnet in these initiatives and to strengthen the role of the CES in this context. A sub-question was also asked about the opportunity to host a TTNC antenna in Redu. A call for projects was launched in 2021. Belspo had offered an application for a Belgian file and to host this new antenna. Unfortunately, the site was not retained on the final short list. We have asked for a debriefing from the European Union, Belspo, ESA and the industrial players involved in the preparation of the dossier, in order, in particular, to be able to contribute to future calls for projects. I confirm, however, that there are currently Galileo antennas in Redu which serve as a back-up to the TTC networks. Of course, these remain operational. For Mrs Gijbels, I would stress that the powers of the various Belgian authorities, as divided by the special legislator, must be respected. In this context, I would remind you of the special law of 1980, in particular paragraph 3 of Article 6a, second paragraph, which clearly states that the federal government is responsible for space research in the framework of international or supranational institutions and agreements or instruments. There is therefore no formal consultation on federal science policy, BELSPO, with the Länder in the framework of international or supranational institutions, agreements or decisions. That doesn't mean we have to work alone. We often consult with our colleagues in the Länder, including our Flemish colleagues. We must work for the benefit of all Belgian actors, in Flanders, in Wallonia and in Brussels. It is in this respect that informal consultations were initiated between BELSPO and the sector, including the umbrella organisation Flemish Space Industry (VRI). Regarding the impact of investment through the European Space Agency in the Belgian economy, a 2019 study showed that over 150 million euro of contracts received in the period 2015-2018 resulted in an added value of over 640 million and nearly 1.5 billion in turnover and 6.473 full-time jobs in the wider economy. Moreover, it was shown that the investments made through ESA over the specific period resulted in 57 million tax returns to the government. The phasing-out of the implementation of the ESA programme indeed requires that regional distribution of revenues is considered over a long period of time. That will certainly happen in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your answers and above all for your interest and dedication in this important competence for our State, namely, investment in aerospace. In addition to local economic benefits, the development of this type of site for cyber security issues remains a priority but not just one. The development of this centre is also an opportunity for climate skills which, I know, are also essential to you and in particular by the evolution of missions in Earth observation programmes. That is why, together with the Climate Committee of the Federal Parliament, whose Vice-President I am fortunate to be, we will make a field visit to Galaxia at my request with the Members of our committee. I therefore welcome today the interest in this particular site and its recognition by Parliament, its members and this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u10	Secretary of State, I am pleased to hear that you are making this a high priority and that it is an important priority for the federal state. I would like to stress that we are not here in science policy but in economic policy and economic development. Therefore, BELSPO should not be mistaken. It is really a fundamental economic development. You salute IDELUX. I do the same because in 2005, it was with IDELUX, René Delcomminette and Georges Cottin that I participated in the deployment of this strategy to redeploy Redu who was in perdition. Since then, there have been significant investments by ESA, and this continues, but we must be careful that we are losing our power of influence at European level when we are one of the main contributors. It is therefore essential to strengthen our presence and argument at European level. Not only do we have to weigh, but we also have to show it. In this regard, when I see that Wallonia, in a 7.5 billion recovery plan, provides 15 million for cybersecurity, 10 of which are towards Charleroi and 20 million for space, I think we're banging next door. We're lucky to have one of the only ground bases in the world that coordinates the other ground bases. In other countries where this exists, tens of millions are invested on the site to really develop. Here, unfortunately, we're a little on hold. I insist that you keep this in mind. The ministerial conference in November 2022 must be prepared carefully because we must weigh our weight. I am not just arguing for the province of Luxembourg and Wallonia. The station is at this location for geographical reasons and capture facilities. Moreover, it is a major hub for our country, including Flanders. We have been discussing with Flemish companies for months with IDELUX for an installation on the Galaxia site. Flemish companies are very active in the field of cybersecurity at European level and want to set up an antenna there. They also have another one in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It is a national development plan that is of national interest. We all have an interest in this being developed. What is developing in Wallonia in the province of Luxembourg will also benefit Flanders - not to mention the companies with which I am talking. Frankly, there is something fundamental to do. On Friday, we both participate in the inauguration of the new headquarters of HREA, a global cybersecurity operator, producing many services for the European Union. We will be there and we must show these companies and ESA that we are at their side to develop this site. You can be sure of my interest in this matter - I think I have expressed it in my reply - and of the follow-up that I am bringing to it. I have no doubt about your good will or your vision, since you too have visited both Galaxia and the ESA website. Together, all communities, work for the development of this leading edge of our economic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, you referred to the division of powers. I would indeed prefer to see this different, that is true, but at the moment I am not asking for a transfer of powers, I am only asking for structural consultation. This is important in order to give the space economy every opportunity. You indicate that there is consultation, but that is seen by Flanders as being too limited, both by my colleagues in Parliament and by the Flemish Government. My colleague has already pointed it out, we must indeed remain at the top. We can only ensure that these resources are distributed in the most optimal and cost-effective way possible. I will certainly continue to insist on this, together with my colleagues in the Flemish Parliament. You say that regional distribution is being taken into account and that it will be better taken care of in the future, as I understand it. However, I regret that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. We know that the Flemish industry is worried and unhappy about this. Makes you think there's something wrong. I do not understand why it is possible to calculate the ROI and FTE exactly, but it seems that it is not possible to tell how these funds are distributed among the Länder. I will come back to this because I think this is far too important to leave blue blue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, the Einstein Telescope is a project that has great potential for science development and the local economy, and I personally am close to it, not least because it would be located in the region where I grew up and still live. In your 2022 policy paper, you indicate that it is a very important project, that close coordination is required between all actors involved and that every effort will be made to support the application. It now appears that the Walloon government recently issued a permit to Engie-Electrabel for the construction of six wind turbines in the municipality of Dalhem. This poses a concrete threat to the preparatory activities of the Einstein Telescope and the candidacy of the Meuse-Rhine Euregion, as wind turbines would be five kilometres from the area in question. In a recent geological study, it was chosen not to build anything in a buffer zone of less than seven kilometres. Several bodies, including the municipality of Voeren, the University of Liège and some stakeholders, have now objected to the decision. The decision could be appealed against until 24 January. Has there been any recent consultation with the relevant actors, namely the Länder and colleagues from the Netherlands and Germany, on the Einstein telescope project? If so, how are the talks going and what is the state of play? If not, when will these talks take place? How do you view the construction of wind turbines near the Einstein telescope area? What steps will the federal government take, informally or formally, in the form of, for example, an appeal or by appealing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u13	Mrs Gijbels, the Einstein telescope is indeed a very important project for Belgium, for the province of Limburg in Flanders and the province of Liège in Wallonia. It is a project of more than EUR 1 billion. Large projects are important to bring the vision of the future. For example, CERN in Switzerland has a huge impact on scientific research, but also on industrial and economic development. So we were very pleased that this project was included in the ESFRI route map and that the necessary preparations were being carried out. In addition to the usual actions in the preparatory phase of a research infrastructure, Belgium is making progress in its candidacy for the establishment of the site, together with the Netherlands and Germany in the Meuse-Rhine Euregion. For example, at the level of the administrations responsible for science policy, a working group chaired by BELSPO was recently set up to coordinate as closely as possible the efforts of the various authorities involved in the dossier. In fact, there are two regions which are candidates for the reception of the infrastructure, namely the Meuse-Rhine Euregion between the three countries and Sardinia in Italy. A permit has been issued for the construction of a wind farm in the area. My cabinet is in contact with the Walloon colleague's cabinet to see how the dossier can be further developed. We need to make sure that this can't be a disadvantage for the project. We will do the follow-up with our Walloon colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Dermine. I hear you appreciate the importance of this, both for Liège and for Limburg. As far as the wind turbines are concerned, I really hope that it will be monitored and that it will not be throwing soot in the food for important projects. In the meantime, the Netherlands has already promised to set aside a billion euros, out of relays, I think. I am a little concerned that we have not yet made any concrete commitments of resources. The Netherlands has also said that it is prepared to go up to an additional billion later. I hope that we will not be the douchebag or the last of the class to participate in the projects that are likely to be in the pipeline, which are now being prepared. If they are assigned to our region, I really hope that we are in the front row and that we can fight our knowledge, our know-how, our technology and our construction industry to reap the benefits. You're also Minister of Relance. I do not know whether there is any possibility of making some funds available for the project in this area. If that were possible, I think we can do nice things with it and that this can also mean a nice return on investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u15	Mrs Gijbels, I am very pleased that one of your party is asking for additional investments in federal science policy. That's very positive news. I hope that we will be able to work together in the future to demand an ambitious federal science policy with more resources. This way we can carry out ambitious projects at the federal level. Thank you. I'm glad we can work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u16	It's been noted. Mrs Gijbels, you have the last word. It's a nice conclusion. I agree with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u17	I just hope that if there are relays, we use them in the right way and there is a good return on investment. I think this project offers the opportunity to do so. We really shouldn't waste anything there for the two regions. There, too, I believe, there is a need for much more structural consultation between the various actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u18	There are always opportunities for cooperation between people of good will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, as I said, we have had hearings in the Congo Special Committee on the colonial past and we have never heard as much about the archives as we did during this parliamentary term, particularly in connection with your general policy statement and all the questions relating to the special committee, the restitution, the Métis, etc. At a hearing on March 14, we heard a series of actors concerning archives in our country, including the Association for the Development of Corporate Archives (AVAE). On behalf of the latter, Jean-Louis Moreau explained to us that a few years ago, we found in the Finoutremer Fund, mixed with other documents without logical link, an important archive: the facsimile of the famous speech delivered on 30 June 1960 by Patrice Lumumba, at the time the first Congolese Prime Minister after independence. This facsimile was corrected and annotated with his hand. We learn things during auditions, it's extraordinary! This document was obviously unpublished and was reportedly found in 2015 according to my information. According to what we learned by Mr. Moreau at this hearing, he was stolen by a person who was present at the ceremonies and who would have taken advantage of the quibble of the moment to steal the original. The original could still be in Belgium in the family of the descendants of the one who stole it. Secretary of State, could you tell us more about the interesting history of this document that has already been rediscovered in a private fund? Are there others of this importance in the archival funds of colonial enterprises? What is the RMA policy when you rediscover a document of this importance? It seems that no, but could we not take the initiative to hand over a copy to the Congolese authorities? Given the fundamental importance of this original piece, should we not look for it? What initiatives are being taken to find it? While waiting, we can always provide a copy but it would be better to find the original if possible. My curiosity has been piqued by this commission and I would like to know more. After Lumumba's tooth, this is the facsimile of his speech that comes back after many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u20	Mr Delizée, I confirm to you that there is in our archives a facsimile, that is to say a photocopy, of the original speech of Patrice Lumumba, which was delivered on 30 June 1960 and which remains one of the most powerful speeches in Congolese history. This is an absolutely unique historical trace since it is a handwritten document with annotations, the corrections made almost live according to King Baudouin. This facsimile was found in the Finoutremer Fund kept by the State Archives. It has already been exhibited on several occasions in publications. In particular, it is available on the Internet. The great challenge today is to find the original found either in the State Archives or in a private fund. This document is highly symbolic and highly important for Congolese history. In the coming weeks, we will therefore appeal to the public to try to find it and to ensure the traceability of this original document which could be the subject of scientific or cultural collaboration with our Congolese friends and colleagues since this document is an important part of their history. On your second question about our proactive archival research policy, we need to know that there are now nearly 360 kilometres of archives in 19 archives across the country. As a result, the State Archives cannot proactively search all archival holdings. On the other hand, and this is the mission we are trying to strengthen with them, we must give them all the necessary publicity, as we have done for example for colonial archives. We must be able to show what exists in order to arouse the curiosity of scientists, researchers or citizens in order to discover the richness of these documents, which are unique testimonies of our country's history. We work on it every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I take note of your answers. You're right to launch a search for the particular archive I've been talking about. In general, all elements buried in private or personal archives must be traced to the surface. It is not simple, but it helps to bring the truth to light. Nor should we forget the question of restitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, perhaps we will visit Belgica II. That's what the law's been talking about. You've already visited the ship yourself. In September 2021, however, Zeebrugge said goodbye to the research vessel Belgica I. That ship has been providing loyal services to maritime scientists at sea for 37 years. It was a ship of the Belgian Navy and was given a second life in Ukraine. The Belgica therefore left for Odessa on the Black Sea in Ukraine in September 2021, which is the new home of the Belgica. Ukraine would deploy the research vessel to investigate the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov, where there were many ecological problems. Mr Secretary of State, my questions to you are as follows. Given the threat of war, has the Belgica ever been hit at its destination, Odessa? When was that right? Where is the Belgica at the moment? Is the ship still intact? There's been trouble with the war. Is there any war damage? Is the Belgica used for maritime scientific research or is the ship also deployed in the context of the war? Does Ukraine intend to deploy the ship for humanitarian or military purposes? Does the Belgian government still support the donated Belgica and possibly the crew?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I remember that in September 2021, six months ago, we had an agreement with the Ukrainian Minister concerned. The current situation in Ukraine is strange. On 13 September 2021, the old Belgica was transferred to the Ukrainian Research Centre for Ecology of the Sea as part of a scientific collaboration between our Science Policy PPS, the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and the Ukrainian Ministry of the Environment. On October 1, 2021, the ship left Zeebrugge for Odessa, where it arrived on October 21, 2021. On 27 October 2021, the ship was celebrated in the presence of President Zelensky and renamed Borys Aleksandrov. There are no more festive moments in Odessa. The latest information we have is that the Belgica was still docked in the port of Odessa on 24 February 2022. Since then, we have received no further news. Normally it still has to be in the port of Odessa. Within the framework of the scientific cooperation agreement, it was intended to carry out joint research projects through the Belgica, but not to provide further support for the ship. So we have no active link with the staff or scientists on board the Belgica. It is the ambition to carry out research projects together with our Ukrainian colleagues, but in view of the current context they have put them on hold. We hope that the ship will still be useful after the war.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Wouldn't it be a good thing that this ship wouldn't be there for a while, so it couldn't be damaged and used again later for what it's meant to be? You haven't had any new information since February. However, we are concerned and hope that the ship can continue to play its intended role.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u25	We can ask our colleague in Ukraine, but I think they will have other priorities in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u26	Colleagues, I think we have finished our work. Since we talked about Belgica, let's hope that the members of the commission can find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u27	Mr President, this has been discussed, but I think we can certainly ask the Belgica staff to organise a visit with the members of the committee in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-04-26-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic758x.u28	With great pleasure. We will put this on the agenda after the Return Bill.
