ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u1	Mr Vicar, as usual, I will ask you to be brief and, if necessary, to refer to your question that the minister has received.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u2	Mr President, I will still set the framework for those who are following the meeting, particularly the Écaussines aldermen. Minister, for the past two years, the city of Écaussines has shown chronic contamination of the environment, especially the rivers, caused by the largest European centre for the production of polymeric pellets in Europe (which includes Total Petrochemicals, Katoen Natie, Vos Logistics and Feluy Service Center). This pollution of streams ends in the sea. In 2017, the Secretary of State for the North Sea had drawn up an ambitious Marine Waste Action Plan, which provided – particularly with regard to primary microplastics – that Belgium would continue to work on this problem. Minister, what about the follow-up to this Marine Waste Action Plan? Does your government continue to advocate at European level for a ban on the use of primary microplastics in cosmetics and detergents? What is the status of this debate at European level? Does the government continue its contacts with the Regions to force companies to avoid leaks of microplastics and raw materials? You know that Walloon pollution also crosses Flanders, so that each Region is affected. Finally, would a federal obligation to transport pellets in closed and sealed containers during all stages of transportation and storage be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u3	Mr President, Mr Vicar, first of all, the Marine Waste Action Plan developed under the previous legislature was thoroughly evaluated last year. The latest status of all actions provided for in this plan is indicated on the Marine Environment Service website. I'll provide you with the "plan evaluation" link. The evaluation was published last December. I would like to share with you some of these. First, it is necessary to continue investing in awareness-raising and communication campaigns, as was the case last weekend with the Eneco Clean Beach Cup. Secondly, we need to involve the scientific world more and invest in the organization of thematic sessions. Thirdly, it is obviously essential to continue to focus on cleaning operations such as "Fishing for Litter". Finally, we must also strengthen controls. Without these, no one is encouraged to follow the rules. Your second question falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister of Climate. In early 2018, its predecessor concluded a sectoral agreement with the cosmetics sector on the voluntary phasing out of the use of microplastics. These were initially plastic microbeads from cosmetics and water-rinsable toothpastes. In response to your third question, I can inform you that as part of the action plan, a working group composed of federal, regional and local authorities has been established. It was within this group that the evaluation of the action plan was carried out. In this context, the services met Plastics Europe, responsible for the implementation of the Operation Clean Sweep programme. In this programme, companies voluntarily undertake to take measures to avoid the loss of plastic beads. The organisation pointed out that the programme is working well in Flanders but that it has difficulties in presenting it in the other regions. We are now looking at whether we can help them further. Finally, on your last question, such a measure could possibly be considered as an action for the new Marine Waste Action Plan. However, such initiatives or obligations should be developed as a matter of priority at European level in order to ensure a level playing field.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have indeed had positive returns from Katoen Natie, a company based in Antwerp. However, I think there is a need to strengthen controls. It is essential that the message be clear to businesses. A little firmness has never done anything wrong. Even we need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u5	Minister, offhore developments cannot be eliminated from the news. I shall come back to another question later. There are increasing numbers of offshore projects in the North Sea. There is the issue of the impact on seabirds. In early 2021, a report was published giving an overview of the scientific findings of the Belgian follow-up or monitoring programme WinMon.BE on the environmental impact of offshore. The location of the wind farm, the layout and the size of the turbines determine the expected number of collisions with seagulls in particular. At present, as we know, there are natural studies around the Princess Elisabeth Zone. The INBO is carrying out a study specifically aimed at the possible effects on seabirds in that zone. The study will not be completed until the end of 2022. I hope that the results will be taken into account in the permit procedures. At the same time, however, there is the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, which established a second programme of measures for Belgian marine waters, which would be formally adopted at the beginning of 2022. The programme also includes specific measures for seabirds. Finally, I would have liked to have confronted you with a number of technological instruments that were tested abroad, such as a smart camera that can temporarily disable the wicks or slow them down when the optical sensor gets a bird in sight. Has the second programme of measures already been formally adopted? What are the measures for seabirds? What are the possibilities of identifying a marine reserve? How do you respond to the possible use of technological tools, such as a smart camera? Can I assume that the INBO in nature study takes into account different scenarios related to density, turbine size and lot size?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u6	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, the second programme of measures for Belgian waters was formally adopted on 1 February 2022 and has a duration of six years. Two specific measures focus on the protection of seabirds, namely measure 9D, the research on migration corridors for seabirds and the development of a risk map barrier effect, and measure 9E, the migration effects on wind farms and the preservation of migration corridors for seabirds. It is, among other things, based on the studies of the INBO, to which you refer, that the necessary input will be collected with which we will continue to work in the environmental permit procedures. In addition to those specific measures, there are other measures in the programme that should have a positive impact on seabird populations, including measures for active nature restoration to improve seabird food soils. The investigation of the possibilities to designate a marine reserve at sea is included as measure 1B. This investigation will be launched. In the coming years, it will be examined how a marine reserve can contribute to the maximum extent of biodiversity in our North Sea and to the protection of both bottom animals and fish, seabirds, marine mammals and other species. I would also like to point out that the second measure in the programme has now also been published on the website of the Marine Environment Service. Your second question concerns data relating to collisions of birds with wind turbines at sea. These are very scarce at the moment. The risk of collisions is assessed by default using a mathematical model, in which different assumptions are made and thus there is great uncertainty about the results. The number of collisions of seabirds with wind turbines at sea is probably much lower than previously assumed. Technological evolutions and research can bring more clarity to the figures. For example, in a two-year study in an English wind farm, where the researchers used a multisensor system called MUSE, with radar and high-definition cameras, only six collisions of seabirds were observed. The radar scanned a study area and directed different cameras towards birds. The video recordings and radar data were then linked and stored in a database and thus provide valuable data on the behaviour of birds in the offshore wind farms and in the vicinity of turbines. Other technological systems are currently being developed to detect collision. These use different types of sensors, such as infrared cameras, heat cameras and combinations of visual and heat cameras. Most of these systems are currently being tested and validated on land. For now, only MUSE has been tested at sea. However, none of these systems are already linked to the control of the windmills. Turbines are not automatically switched off when a bird is in the risk zone. In a study carried out last year on land, in the state of Wyoming, a camera system was tested in which a turbine was automatically switched off when a particular type of bird flew in the vicinity of a turbine. This system was found to reduce the number of conflicts by 63 % compared to a reference site. So it is certainly promising, but the effectiveness at sea will still have to be tested. After all, the situation at sea is very different from the test situation on land. The test was carried out in an area where there was a high number of collisions of a particular species, namely the golden eagle. At sea there are many different species that are likely to be more difficult to distinguish. Turbines would be stopped whenever a seabird comes near a rotor. This could lead to a significant economic cost, due to reduced power generation, to avoid a limited number of collisions of seabirds. For the construction and operation of a new wind farm in the Princess Elisabeth zone, the environmental permit procedure and appropriate assessment shall be carried out. The environmental impact report will be prepared for the entire zone and will take into account different alternatives, including the number of turbines and/or turbine size. In particular, for the number of collisions, different scenarios will be calculated using a collision risk model. The scenario for which the least avoidable behaviour in seabirds is expected will be examined. The impact of the other measures mentioned above, which can further reduce the number of collisions, will also be taken into account and, where appropriate, included as a condition in the environmental permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u7	Mr Minister, my question was drawn up at the end of January, at the beginning of February, and I am not aware that the programme of measures has been formally adopted and published on the web site you mentioned. I would like to thank you for the overview of the technological instruments systems. I hope you will also take this concern to heart in the licensing procedure, but I am quite reassured by your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Buyst's 55025391C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u9	Minister, Belgium will be on the board of the International Seabed Authority or ISA in 2023 and 2025. That's not a failure divers. In 2023, it is likely to be decided on the operating rules for mining activities in the deep sea. It is crucial that Belgium can take a well-founded position in this regard. The work on the Belgian positioning within the ISA Council has already started, with round tables with stakeholders on the impact of deep-sea mining on the marine environment, led by your cabinet. However, I am concerned that it seems to remain so, whereas a position of Belgium merely on the basis of its impact on the marine environment seems to me to be very thin. Deep sea mining affects so many more policy areas and aspects of society. Are you open to the organisation of additional round tables in preparation for the Belgian membership of the ISA Council, on issues such as the economic and social impact of deep-sea mining and the governance of the ISA Council on this matter? What progress has been made at the moment in preparing for the Belgian membership of the ISA Council? What is the planned trajectory, the timetable for achieving a Belgian positioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u10	Mrs Daems, I have already taken the issue of deep-sea mining very seriously when I took up my position as Minister of the North Sea. Both my collaborators and myself have had several consultations with the various parties involved. During these talks, I have found that there is often a collusion rather than a dialogue, and that certain theories are more nuanced than they are sometimes suggested. This is why I took the initiative last year to bring all the stakeholders, the services involved with the support of scientists from the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences and Ghent University. The design of the roundtables is to discuss the societal concerns surrounding deep-sea mining in all transparency and confidence. We are looking together at what knowledge already exists about the deep sea and what we certainly need to examine or know before we can make informed decisions for exploitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u11	For the North Sea Minister, the main focus of these discussions is, of course, the protection of the marine environment, but of course we are not blind to the many other challenges, such as the economic and social impact you referred to. All these concerns are also noted. At the end of the round table, we will consider whether we should continue to work on this issue ourselves, or whether we should transfer it to another minister whose powers it belongs to. These round tables are not directly aimed at shaping the Belgian positioning within the ISA Council. For this there is the multi-consultation, co-ordinated by the FPS Foreign Affairs. As far as your second question is concerned, the current Belgian positioning within the ISA Council is not affected by Belgian membership, but, as is the case now, will maintain the ambitious Belgian ocean policy, with the aim of enforcing the highest environmental standards. However, in 2023-2025, as a member of the council, we could also effectively cast our vote and make our mark even more. Given the busy agenda of the ISA Council in 2022, with three scheduled sessions and interim virtual meetings, it is difficult to set the timetable for the Belgian position in advance. However, some conditions will always be respected. Firstly, coordination follows the prescribed CORMULTI procedure. Secondly, all public administrations and Cabinets that have powers or expertise in this matter are involved in the preparation. Thirdly, interested parties are given time to make their views known. In retrospect, the outcome of the meeting will also be put back together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We believe it is important to look at all aspects, so that Belgium can move to the ISA Council with a well-founded position. You say you are not blind to the many other challenges. The round tables may not determine the position themselves, but they do have an important influence on the determination of the position. We therefore urge the organisation of additional round tables. We are thinking of a round table on the economic impact, which deals with the issue of mining versus circular economy, under the direction of the cabinet Economy. The social impact also deserves a round table, in which we can talk about social justice for coastal communities in whose exclusive economic zone mining is under consideration. Finally, we also believe that there should be a round table on governance, which can consider whether the ISA is fit for purpose to take the decision on deep-sea mining exploitation. I hope you will take our recommendations with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u13	Minister, the work on the draft legislation on deep-sea mining was not completed before New Year, partly because the regions extended their consultation period until the end of 2021. You promised in your policy paper that the law would be submitted to Parliament at the beginning of 2022. We haven't heard about it since. That is why I would have liked to have had an update on the legal text. Was the advice of the regions favourable or not? What did you do with the advice? What stage is the draft law at? What is the further timetable of the bill? What are the factors determining this? Can it be presented to Parliament before the summer recess? Are there any KBs in the process of implementing the law? If so, how many and what subjects?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u14	Minister, our party represents a balance between economics and environmental concerns in the case of deep-sea mining. It is still waiting for a clear and binding regulatory framework of Belgian legislation to complement international legislation. The precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle and environmental standards would all be included. The draft law was sent to the regions for advice a few months ago. Their opinion was expected by the end of 2021; Ms Daems already mentioned the extension of the deadline. Did you get the advice? What exactly does it say? What is the timetable for the draft law which apparently has not yet been submitted to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u15	As regards Mrs Daems' first question, the draft law received a positive opinion from Brussels and Flanders. We did not receive any advice from the Walloon Region. With regard to Mrs Daems' second and third questions and Mr Ravyts' question, the draft law is currently being finalised. The opinions of the regions, the Data Protection Authority and the Finance Inspector are in and are incorporated into the text. There is currently a council meeting with the International Seabed Authority. Depending on the outcome of these discussions, refinements to the text may be possible or desirable. We intend to start discussions next month in the Inter-Kabinette Working Group so that the dossier can be discussed in the Council of Ministers before the summer. The text is then submitted to the Council of State for its opinion, after which the draft law can be submitted to Parliament. I come to your final question, Mrs Daems. The royal decrees will be drawn up as soon as the text of the law is finalized. We have always said that this is a framework law which should complement the international rules that are being developed in the International Seabed Authority. For a number of royal decisions we are also dependent on discussions at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. We are following closely the work on the law on deep-sea mining. You are aware of our position. We are opposed to commercial exploitation and to a moratorium. The Marine Policy magazine recently published a scientific paper that fully mapped out the scientific knowledge gaps on the environmental impact of deep-sea mining for the first time, confirming the legitimacy of our position. The study shows that basic research will be needed for at least 10 years, but perhaps 20 or 30 years, in order to be able to make a scientifically sound decision on the exploitation of deep-sea mining. We are very curious how you will translate that scientific reality into your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u17	Minister, you said that this is a framework law, a supplement to international rules. It is indeed logical that you should aim to coordinate with the discussions in the ISA, the International Seabed Authority. Of course, these discussions at international level have their influence on the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u18	Mrs Ingels, of course I am aware of the Blue Cluster's policy recommendation. We've even discussed this with them. The biggest point at the moment is that no vision of aquaculture has yet been developed in Belgium, although the need is very clear. After all, we know that the European Union imports more than 70% of the seafood it consumes. Less than 2% of the global production of seafood comes from the EU. The growth potential is therefore enormous. Our Belgian companies innovate and invest heavily in mariculture, but they still face too many different barriers to make it economically viable. That is why I have announced in my policy letter that I will work on a vision of aquaculture at sea from this year on. The intention is to start this process before the summer and to engage in dialogue with all interested parties in order to identify needs, opportunities and concerns. As far as your second question is concerned, it can only be encouraged to look at good practice abroad. I am in favour of this. However, due attention should be paid to the specific context of the offshore aquaculture sector in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, for example, activities concentrate mainly on shielded sea areas, such as the Westerschelde, while in Belgium they focus on the open sea or the spaces in the wind farms. A simple cut-and-paste exercise of aquaculture policy from abroad will therefore neither be possible nor likely to be desirable. However, we must try to extract everything that can be useful to us. As regards your third question, as with many dossiers, consultation with the different levels of policy is taking place in a constructive manner. Specifically about the vision building on mariculture, I will invite my Flemish colleagues to actively contribute to this as soon as the trajectory is started. The collaboration with the Flemish government is going well, but of course everything can be even better. It will be important to work well together and exchange knowledge this time too. I will therefore consult not only with the Flemish authorities, but also with all stakeholders, including the local authorities, the fisheries sector, the pleasure shipping sector, nature organisations, scientific institutions and the companies that have worked with the construction cluster to draw up the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. All I needed to hear was that there will be a vision and it won't be long. We're all waiting for that and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u20	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u21	Mrs Ingels, as far as your first question is concerned, we are currently working on an in-depth renewal of the Marine Environment Protection Act and on the organisation of marine spatial planning. Following those revisions, the various implementing acts will also be reviewed and, where necessary, adapted. The Royal Decree of 13 November 2012 is one of the decrees. The revision of the Marine Environment Act was approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 February and forwarded to the Council of State for its opinion. A list of the various implementing acts to be redrafted or drawn up is currently being drawn up as well as a timing within which this will have to be done. The Royal Decree of 2012 is one of the decisions that will be reviewed as a matter of priority. We will first examine the current procedure in the light of the applicable European legislation and, where possible, improve it. After the first marine spatial plan in 2014 and its review in 2020, a lot of practical experience has been gained. Without pre-dominating the evaluation, the ultimate objective is to achieve a streamlined and transparent procedure. This procedure should not include time-consuming or unnecessary steps, but should provide the necessary guarantees that citizens and the authorities concerned can make a contribution at the most appropriate time in order to achieve a broad-based marine spatial plan. As far as your second question is concerned, pilot projects have already taken place or are still in progress in the past. The first is Value@sea. Its main objective is to determine the technical and economic feasibility of the integrated cultivation of extractive aquaculture species in the Belgian part of the North Sea. It was research into seaweed and shellfish, including the flat oyster and scallops with mussels as a reference species. In the meantime, that project has been successfully completed. The second project is SYMAPA. That's a follow-up study from Value@sea. That project ends at the end of 2022. Then there is the Edulis project, which aims to define the technical requirements for an offshore mussel farming system. The project ends at the end of this year. Then there is UNITED, which focuses on multifunctional platforms and co-location pilots that stimulate cost-effective, environmentally friendly and sustainable projects in the marine environment. That project also runs until the end of this year. There are currently no new applications for new projects. Thirdly, most of the projects are still ongoing. It is difficult to draw definitive and factual conclusions at this stage. The scientific pilot projects should, of course, also be considered in their context. The aim is to investigate the scientific framework. The pilot projects show that the conditions in our North Sea with regard to biotic and abiotic factors are certainly appropriate for the extraction of mussels and seaweed, for example. In order to achieve the transition from pilot projects to commercial aquaculture, many more factors, such as business case, insurance, operational costs and the availability of suitable equipment and personnel, have to be taken into account. Yet we see the first successes. The Value@sea project has received a follow-up project, which allows the project to be considered successful. The results of the project have led to the granting of a commercial and industrial project in Zone C of the Navy spatial plan, in particular Codevco's marine farms. The sea farm is the first commercial aquaculture project in our North Sea. Fourthly, a distinction must be made between the reworking of the procedure for drawing up a plan and the effective reworking of the plan for the period after 2026. Local authorities will be actively involved in this process, as was the case in 2014 and 2020. The coastal mayors and local authorities were invited to the start event. An explanation was given of the coastal mayor's meeting organised by the governor of West Flanders. With a separate meeting held in the cabinet of the North Sea Minister, local authorities were invited to the public consultation meeting and, at their request, an explanation was given of the plans in their bathing town or municipality. You will find that the local authorities have always been closely involved in the past. This involvement will not be affected in the future. Fifthly, on your question on the negative opinion of the Flemish Region, I must give some clarification. In August last year, the draft text was delivered to the three regions for their opinion. In October, an official consultation was held between the competent departments and agreement was reached. Since the 60-day period had expired at that time, an additional 30-day period was granted. In order not to cause confusion with the consultation of the other regions, only the deadline was extended and not the amended text presented. In the texts now before the Council of State for its opinion, the adjustments already agreed have been fully implemented in accordance with the consensus between the competent departments. This was also confirmed by letter to my colleagues from the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u22	Mr Ravyts, your question is on the same subject, so it probably should have been merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u24	I suggest you ask your question now and then you can replicate together. Then, with some delay, we will make it a combined question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u25	Minister, the updating of the Marine Environment Act is part of the coalition agreement. A number of elements of the existing law need to be revised, such as extraterritorial operation of the law, categories of activities subject to authorisation, recovery of environmental damage costs and enforcement. It is important that you draw up clear definitions of nature protection and ensure the correct transposition of EU legislation on good environmental status, as Belgium has been failing to do so for some time. Can you give us any explanation on these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u26	Mr President, the draft law in question was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 25 February. We expect an opinion from the Council of State in April and aim to start discussions in committee during May.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u28	Minister, I suspect that the draft law will be discussed in this committee. Then we will be able to discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u29	Mr President, Minister, from March 14 to 29, 2022, a new round of negotiations is being held in Geneva on the establishment of a global framework for the protection of biodiversity, including the protection of 30% of marine areas worldwide. This is a matter for us in this committee. This round of negotiations is particularly important as it is the last one to separate us from COP15, which should, after several postponements, be held around August and September this year in Kunming, China. Minister, have you participated, or intend to participate, in this round of negotiations? If so, can we have your feedback on your participation, as well as on the positions defended, or led to be defended, by our country with regard to the protection of the marine environment? Have any progress already been made with regard to the target of full protection of 30% of the oceans by 2030 and the reduction of marine pollution? Can you inform us about investments dedicated to the preservation of marine biodiversity and its use? China established the Kunming Biodiversity Fund in 2021; $230 million was announced. Recently, Ms Maruma Mrema, Executive Secretary of the Convention, has suggested the need to invest approximately $700 billion in maintaining or improving biodiversity. Can you tell us what your ambitions are for funding the protection of marine biodiversity? At COP26, our country signed the Blue Leaders' Declaration, which calls on governments to "rapidly conclude a new strong United Nations treaty to conserve and protect marine biodiversity in the ocean beyond national jurisdiction". Have any negotiations been initiated on this matter? Has a timetable been established for negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u30	Mr President, dear colleague, a delegation from Belgium is physically participating in the negotiations in Geneva as part of the preparations for COP15. Most working groups can also be tracked online, allowing for hybrid negotiations. As regards the global framework for biodiversity protection, the Belgian position is defined in the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy. If necessary, it shall be updated at the daily Belgian coordination meetings. As far as the marine environment is concerned, investments are mainly aimed at achieving the target of 30 per cent of protected areas. The 30% protection target is included in the draft provisional text. Therefore, we believe that we will succeed in achieving it. Belgium, like the other Member States of the European Union, has not only a quantitative but also a qualitative objective. We do not want mere paper parks but many marine protected areas in a complete and efficient manner. For the time being, the Government has not released any additional budgets either under the 30 x 30 target or for biodiversity on the high seas. We must first set the framework and then see what resources are devoted to it. The fourth Intergovernmental Conference for the negotiation of the Treaty was held from 7 to 18 March at United Nations Headquarters. Belgium participated physically with a delegation of negotiators. As already explained in this committee, Belgium continued its momentum during the pandemic by organising dialogues on the high seas treaty, online. This in part enabled negotiators to work directly on the content. As we expected, after two years of postponing negotiations, no agreement could be reached last week. But the president, Ambassador Rena Lee of Singapore, will draft a new draft treaty on the basis of oral and written statements during the negotiations. In addition, the negotiating States will request the United Nations General Assembly to hold a fifth and final session of the conference in August. Belgium and some other States were considering whether it might be useful or necessary to add a ministerial segment in order to resolve the remaining difficult issues and to achieve a regulatory framework for marine protected areas on the high seas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u31	Minister, thank you for the clarity and accuracy of your responses. This is a matter of concern and concern to us. Based on the elements of the response, we can be pleased that this new draft treaty will be discussed at the fifth session announced next August. We will not fail to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u32	These are three combined questions. Other Members may take the floor. I will, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u33	Minister, last Friday there was great news about a political energy agreement. I have noticed a number of issues relating to your powers as Minister of the North Sea, namely in the section on the acceleration of the energy transition. We are even more committed to wind at sea. There will be a quadrupling of our windmills and their construction will be completed more quickly, already in 2027. These plans are, of course, in line with your coalition partner, Green. The government has a lot of ambition. She creates a lot of expectations. However, the question is what is realistic. Have I not even heard you say in a not so far past here in committee that there is no room for an additional offshore zone in Belgian territorial waters and in the marine spatial plan 202-2026? So the marine spatial plan does not include a third wind turbine zone. Can you explain your role in implementing the agreement of 18 March 2022? How do you see the announced quadrupling of offshore capacity? Do you consider it realistic to build a third offshore zone in Belgian territorial waters, or rather are we looking towards interconnection and the announced hybrid energy island which will play a major role in the interconnection intersection developments in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u34	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u35	Minister, last Friday it was decided to extend offshore wind capacity in the North Sea to 8 gigawatts. For this purpose, the windmills in the first wind zone should be replaced early by more powerful mills. On the other hand, a third wind zone is envisaged. However, it is not an obvious exercise to find an appropriate place for this because of the very many activities in the Belgian part of the North Sea. Is the government already studying places for that wind zone in the Belgian part of the North Sea? If so, which one? Are we also looking at international cooperation, to get more power from offshore wind energy, even outside the Belgian part of the North Sea, for example via additional connectors? Where are we on the dossier of landing all that offshore wind energy? That needs to be put in order for the Princess Elisabeth zone and any increase in capacity makes this issue even more urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u36	Minister, I am glad that clarity has been established. The path to low carbon energy supply will be intelligently accelerated. When it comes to low-carbon energy sources, of course, it is not just about renewable energy. It also opens the door to a new generation of nuclear technology. It makes effective sense to provide for connection, as it substantially reduces our dependence on gas. Not only was it geopolitical; the CREG also found that there was still a flaw in the plans presented by Elijah. The aim is to accelerate the increase in wind energy capacity. It is not because people say that they will free up budgets, that the realization of a clean roof runs smoothly. One of the committee's concerns, which we will take to heart, is whether there is sound project planning. This is not only about the timeline, but also about the roadblocks, possible connection problems, when they need to be solved. Our committee, I will also put this question to the Minister for Energy - I would like to obtain a good insight. We want what is proposed to be well thought out. That question is not based on ideology. You will understand that from my company's point of view a clear implementation plan is needed, because this avoids misunderstandings. The implementation plan should be clear and follow-up and ensure that misunderstandings are avoided. We need to have a clear view of the critical moments, so we don't get another surprise. Could you explain that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The government has decided to turn the North Sea into the centre of gravity of the energy transition. As North Sea Minister, I am responsible for two aspects: marine spatial planning and environmental licensing and Natura 2000 authorisations for all industrial and commercial activities that will be carried out. I was at Ghent University this morning, where 25 natural studies are currently being carried out. One of these studies examines the effects of electromagnetic fields on fish stocks. Part of the Princess Elisabeth zone will be built in nature reserve. This is a very difficult matter, for which we are trying to find a good balance. This goes hand in hand with a lot of studies, which fall within my competence. I would also like to refer to my policy letter from last year. In that I talked about developing a vision on repo protection, the re-use of the first offshore zone in the Belgian part. The first windmills at sea were built from 2009. These are small windmills with a power of 3 to 5 megawatts that have a lifespan of about 25 years. I said at that time that the current legislative framework provides for the restoration of the original state without any indication of its impact on the fauna and flora present. We will therefore start a participatory process and explore whether these areas can be further or redeveloped in the future. We will base ourselves on scientific insights. The agreement of 18 March makes us shift a gear higher. We will therefore have to look with the concessionaires to see how we can speed up the repurchase of the first zone. It also examines how small windmills can be replaced by larger ones and what alternative forms of energy generation are still possible. I come to Mr Ravyts' second question, Mr Verduyckt's first question and Mrs Daems' second question. A quadrupling is not evident, but it is not impossible. Firstly, we will focus on the development of the Princess Elisabeth Zone. Secondly, the repo will also generate additional capacity. Thirdly, we have decided to invest in floating solar panels. It is currently being examined whether the initial budget of EUR 2 million could be increased to support the accelerated development of this innovative technology. In addition, there are a number of other possibilities relating to limits imposed by a number of institutions, such as (...). They can give us a little more room, provided that we have a good interpretation. Mrs Daems, there is indeed a need to establish a link with other North Sea countries. In my policy letter, I already argued in favour of drawing up a Marine Spatial Plan for the whole of the North Sea. So we must stop just looking at our own sea area and work to make the whole of the North Sea a powerful and sustainable power plant. By drawing up this plan, all Member States' investments will also be cost-efficient and the optimal interconnections between the North Sea countries can be achieved. We were the pioneer in marine spatial planning, and I will use this expertise to launch the necessary initiatives in this area as well. Mrs Daems, Mr Ravyts, it is indeed very busy on our little North Sea. Fishing, pleasure boating, merchant shipping, sand mining, military and other activities take place. All these activities must be able to be carried out safely in parallel without damaging the marine environment. This balance was set out in the 2020-2026 plan. However, we are in special times today and the government has asked me to examine whether there is still room for a third offshore zone. I will therefore continue to examine this with an open mind and in dialogue with all the parties concerned. Mr Verduyckt, the agreement says that this government will take the necessary initiatives with the aim of making the first windmills run in 2027. Additional budgets will also be attached to this for the coming years, so that study and legislative work can be speeded up. One of the critical success factors is the realization of the onshore connections Ventilus and Boucle du Hainaut. Without these connections, we will not be able to get our renewable energy ashore. I understand that the intentant's report is currently being discussed within the Flemish Government. We look forward to the results of this. The Boucle du Hainaut is also needed to realise the capacity increase. The most important factor in the success of the energy agreement is the maintenance of good cooperation within this government and with regional governments. Only in this way can we achieve our energy independence. This is an objective which all governments in this country can endorse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u38	Minister, within my party I am committed to the vision of energy independence, in the sense of renewable energy combined with nuclear energy. I am certainly not alone in this committee. With an open look at the possibility of a third zone is indicated, but I remain cautious. Repowering is of course good, as is the acceleration of repowering and Ventilus. I have already questioned Mrs Van der Straeten about this. You are completely dependent on the Flemish Government in this respect. You know that in West Flanders there is a great deal of resistance to an above-ground installation. However, the federal government can also put pressure on Elijah and go into consultation with them, perhaps in the context of speeding up their efforts to realize as many pieces underground as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u39	Mr Minister, speeding up is really necessary and there is no longer any question of delay. However, total independence may be a utopia. However, all these investments will help us. Energy is particularly important in international politics and makes us particularly vulnerable. On the other hand, it is not technologically flawless. You mentioned the onshore connection. Hopefully the Flemish Government will take responsibility for this. We have seen too often over the last few months that different other interests are crossing this country's energy policy. It shouldn't be, it's just too important. It should also be about an open look or removing taboos. Everyone needs to be very aware of what they're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u40	We hope, Minister, that there will be more clarity about the practical effects of the planned increase in capacity. A third wind zone in the Belgian part of the North Sea must not, of course, be at the expense of valuable Natura 2000 sites or bird migration routes. We are certainly in favour of making full use of the potential to generate wind energy in the North Sea, but we see greater benefits for this in international cooperation beyond the boundaries of territorial waters. There is no point in stuffing our part of the Belgian North Sea while there is actually no good place if there are much better alternatives internationally, in the full North Sea. I am pleased that you are looking at this in the context of a Marine Spatial Plan for the entire North Sea. I think that's a good approach. I hope that a worthy alternative will be found for a third zone in the Belgian North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic730x.u41	Mr. Secretary, as it should be, I am silent.
