ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u1	Good morning, Minister, I suggest that we begin our work. First of all, I wish everyone a happy New Year. I hope that we can work together again in a constructive way in this committee, as we did last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my best wishes for the new year. The first question on today's agenda relates to insurance premiums. In December 2021 it was already announced that fire insurance would become more expensive as of 1 January 2022. To a large extent, reference was made to natural disasters. It is expected that they will only increase in the coming period, which led to an increase of 5.6 percent in insurance premiums. In the meantime, that has also happened effectively. Many people have received their new bill in the mailbox and found that their fire insurance has become substantially more expensive. There are several reasons for this. I have already referred to the natural disasters that have occurred and which are still to be expected. The building materials are also becoming more expensive and we are dealing with re-insurers who naturally want their share of the cake and so on. Minister, it is important that there is a kind of framework that makes clear exactly what is insured and what is not and what damage will eventually be compensated. You have consulted with those responsible for the insurance sector. What's the outcome of this meeting? Do you also consider that there is a need for a legal framework for insurance against the effects of climate change, to put it that way? Do you also consider that making fire insurance compulsory will have a beneficial effect on the level of an insurance premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u3	Mr President, first of all, my best wishes to all my colleagues. I wish the Minister a good year and good health, as well as the staff behind the microphones, the translators and translators whom I greet in passing. Minister, everything is increasing, as you know, except for salaries, and you also know that. That's what we've been watching for several months. Today, we learn that insurance premiums will also increase. It is the ABEX index that depends on construction prices, which is used to index insurance premiums. Specialists indicate that with the recovery, following the crash of the covid in 2020 and the increase in material orders in 2021, the ABEX index will be high. The bill for citizens is therefore likely to be salty. Nearly 6% of the increase is reported, and some insurance companies, such as AG Insurance, have planned to increase even further. Thus, premiums paid to insurers are proportional to the cost of building a new home, whereas when insurance companies have to open their portfolios to indemnify victims, they are referred to as outdated. So these are my questions, Minister. Do you find it normal for insurance premiums to increase while you were committed to not doing so? Is the ABEX index still appropriate for setting the price of insurance premiums? Is it normal that a disaster sufferer should now pay more for his insurance premium because construction costs are increasing, even though insurance does not fully cover flood damage? Are you going to review the legislation to limit the cost of insurance or are you simply going to continue to protect insurers' profits by capping the compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u4	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express to everyone my best wishes for this new year, even if it begins again under somewhat dark auspices with the coronavirus pandemic. Best wishes to everyone in this room. Best wishes also to the staff who follow us and help us work on a daily basis. The recent floods have put our citizens in a dramatic situation because of the enormous damage to homes, small businesses, infrastructure and so on. Faced with the exceptional nature of these events, the Regions and in particular the Walloon Government have assumed their responsibility. They have made exceptional efforts to ensure the compensation of insured persons. The insurance sector has also assumed its responsibility by compensating insured persons over and above what is prescribed by law. We are currently working on a reform of the ceiling for the compensation of insurers in the context of natural disasters such as floods. As you said, discussions have been initiated with Assuralia, the National Bank of Belgium and representatives of the SPF Economy as well as with representatives of the various Regions, since the competence of the Disaster Fund has been regionalised. I have already had the opportunity to say so in this committee and in plenary, and I will repeat this today: for me, it is inconceivable that the reform of this legal ceiling, as it exists today and as it must, in the light of recent events, be reviewed, does not result in an increase in the premiums received by insurance companies. I now turn to the second question on the ABEX index. It is used by insurance companies to adjust the amount of premiums that are charged to insured persons on the basis, to put it simply, of the cost of construction. It is well known that there are various factors affecting the cost of construction, not only in terms of the price of materials, but also in terms of the increasing evolution of a series of construction standards such as fire-fighting standards and energy standards. Thus, the price of construction or renovation has tended to rise in recent years, and still today. It is indeed an element of attention, which is the subject of special consideration by me, in order to ensure that tomorrow, each and every one of us can continue to ensure his or her property, his or her property, at an acceptable price. I repeat that it is now even more urgent and important to combat global warming. It is essential that we are better prepared for the effects of climate change. If floods become more frequent and extensive and we do not protect ourselves better against them, there is a fear that insurance premiums will increase significantly. All stakeholders should therefore ensure that this does not happen. In principle, fire insurance is already mandatory as part of a mortgage or lease agreement. More than 85% of people take out fire insurance. One of the lessons to be learned from the crisis is that the absence of compulsory insurance is not really an issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u5	Mr Minister, if the cost of fire insurance increases by 5.6%, this is largely due to natural disasters and so on. The increase in the ABEX index due to the higher price of building materials and housing in general has again been partly caused by inflation. In your opinion, we must ensure that everyone can insure their property. Let us also ensure that everyone can still purchase and pay property in the future. The increase in that ABEX index and the increase in insurance premiums by 5.6%, which was already a long time ago from 2007, are simply significant. According to you, 85% of the people have fire insurance. That's a pretty high number. In a number of cases, fire insurance is also mandatory, such as in the context of a mortgage. However, it means that 15% of people still have no fire insurance. If a person becomes a victim of a fire or a natural disaster tomorrow, it will cause enormous problems for the other 15%. You don't think there's a problem like that these days. You are quite enlightened about this whole issue. I remember that during the first lockdown in 2020, your fellow party members, the Socialists, argued in favour of paying back the insurance premiums for cars because those cars could not be used at that time. Then this committee was, as it were, turned upside down. Now that we are talking about something very important, the fire insurance premiums which are increasing by more than 5%, you are doing very little. Your answer didn't really reassure me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u6	Minister, you say that you object to increases in insurance premiums when you decide to review the limit. But it must be noted that they are still increasing. What is your response to the increase in premiums that insured people are seeing coming today? I didn't hear you either about whether the ABEX index is still appropriate? The ceiling must be revised or even removed, but it must also be prevented from taking advantage of the economic conditions to increase premiums. Another important element must also be taken into account, namely that the ABEX index is based, inter alia, on the increase in the price of materials. So let us not be told that it is the increase in labour costs that explains the increase in premiums! Indeed, as you know, workers' wages will only be increased by 0.4 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the cost of an undertaker is very high today. A lot of people underestimate how expensive a funeral is. A funeral soon costs between 8,500 and 11,000 euros. Funeral prices become priceless by the increasingly large market with a lot of large chains and large players. The more market share one has, the more effect it has on prices that the consumer has to pay at the end of the journey. Morticians are increasingly investing in their own auditoriums and private greeting rooms. Hospital mortuaries therefore disappear because of savings and because undertakers build their own network. The problem is that a lot of people go wrong at that high cost. That cost often ends in a debt with a personal loan. You'd rather not think about that when someone in your close vicinity died. Is the FPS Economy getting any reports about this? We hear that cost has increased considerably in the short term. If so, how many complaints is it about? Have any checks been carried out? Do you know of certain price agreements within the professional association? Have you been working on this file? Do you wish to take initiatives here? How do you feel about a funeral grant like it also exists for births? Is this a possible solution for people facing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, in reply to your first question, I will provide you with tables of figures. Neither the FPS Economy nor the Belgian Competition Authority is aware of any notification of price fixing within this sector. My administration has no information on the price level of funeral services. On the basis of the harmonised consumer price index, funeral services have become 8.6% more expensive over the last five years. However, this is a smaller increase than the accumulated service inflation of 11.4%. Your suggestions must be analysed by my administration. At the moment, I do not have a strong position on this, but I am ready to look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the figures you have sent. I think it is a good thing that you want to look at possible solutions. Even though the increase in these costs is less than average inflation, it is a rather special moment when someone dies from the immediate circle, making it confrontative when costs continue to increase. I suppose we'll definitely come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u10	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my best wishes for a healthy and hopefully more normal 2022. Minister, several Belgian banks are not only concerned with the provision and management of insurance. They are now also starting with all kinds of new services that do not belong to their core business. For example, Belfius will work exclusively with Proximus to offer its customers telecom subscriptions at an interesting rate. Other banks are also actively seeking partnerships to offer new services such as mobility services, film tickets and energy. Minister, what do you think of the fact that banks no longer focus solely on their core business, but also actively seek new services for their customers, even if these services are not part of their banking tasks? Belfius and Proximus are two major players in their sector. What do you think of such collaborations? Are such cooperation not a threat to the competitiveness of other companies? What is your view and your opinion on this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u11	Mrs Dierick, the phenomenon of beyond banking is a global trend. Banking services facilitate access to other products and services, even from outside the sector, called banking as a service. One example is the purchase of a bus or train ticket via a bank's app. Banking as a service facilitates cooperation between the bank and its partner. The bank acts as an intermediary without replacing the partner. Exclusivity agreements are market practices that can deliver efficiency gains in markets or restrict competition. This depends on a number of factors assessed by the Belgian Competition Authority. It concerns, for example, the relevant market, the players active in that market and their power, and the offer or characteristics of the practices. It is up to the BMA to decide on a case-by-case basis on the legality of such practices in the light of competition law. In addition, joint offers are prohibited under our national law when at least one of the components is a financial service, Article 681 of the Economic Law Code. However, there are exceptions to the prohibition where the financial services offered constitute a whole or are goods of a public character or in the case of small goods and services accepted by commercial users. Offering a telecom subscription or a contract at an advantageous price from another company is possible if the bank only addresses its customers. The prohibition of joint offers only applies in relation to the acquisition of goods or services and not in the context of an existing commercial relationship. It is therefore necessary to analyse each practice individually to determine whether it complies with all legal requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Offering additional services can indeed bring benefits for both the bank and the consumer. I am pleased that, for each case, it is necessary to consider whether the offer effectively complies with all our regulations. I have no problem with it in itself, but I do think that the core business should not suffer. There are still major challenges in this area. We have often debated enough vending machines and affordable banking services. That must remain a priority. We must continue to focus on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u13	Minister, I wanted to go back to a matter that led our discussions last year and even at the end of 2020. This one is about insurance. I asked you in November 2020 and, in February 2021, I asked in this committee for an audition of insurance companies on the reduction of premiums they had not planned for a number of closed sectors. Obviously, when sectors are closed and there is no activity, risks are reduced (civil liability, occupational accident insurance, fire). With your help, we finally asked the insurance companies to take an approach to the sectors that had been deprived of commercial activities in the light of the health crisis. I asked you in June 2021 to take stock of the matter. You then told us that a monitoring was carried out on what the insurances had offered to the various closed sectors because of sanitary measures. Minister, could you give us details today on the monitoring, its results and the number of overall premium reductions and/or per insurance company? Have you in this context asked the Economic Inspectorate, competent in terms of fair and honest market practices, to supervise this monitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u14	Mr Ducrame, your question is indeed part of a long-standing concern in your head. On several occasions, we have had the opportunity to discuss this important issue and, in so doing, to change the practice and put pressure on a sector in connection with sectors that have been heavily impacted by the various measures of restriction or cessation of activity imposed in the context of the coronavirus crisis. As I told you, I asked for monitoring from Assuralia at the level of the main sectors affected. This monitoring has been transmitted to me. It therefore takes up the measures transmitted by the members of Assuralia in favour of the five sectors most affected by the Corona crisis and by the measures taken to combat the virus, namely horeca, events, culture, contact professions and sports halls and fitness. I can tell you what follows. First, more than 141,000 insured persons in these sectors received an individualized letter inviting them to contact their insurer or broker to examine possible adjustments to their insurance contract in the light of their resumption of business. We were then in June. Until 30 May 2021, more than 2,020 insured persons took the opportunity to request an adjustment of their contract with an impact on the premiums of 1,292,000 euros. Nearly 2,400 insured persons requested additional time to repay the premiums for a total amount of €1,467,000. This represents less than 2% of insured persons contacted. I would also like to point out that, in this monitoring, the insurers have informed us that they have reduced the insurance premiums RC Exploitation and Accidents de travail to EUR 160.15 million. For some insured persons, these reductions in premiums and the additional delays granted are important gestures, probably insufficient in the context of the crisis and the difficulties they have experienced, but important in order to be able to pass through this marasm and to have resumed the activity in better conditions. I do not, however, have a breakdown by insurance company, but I can possibly, through the Economic Inspectorate and the SPF Economy, request this data from Assuralia and/or insurance companies. It is a rendezvous clause that I submit to you so that we can try to obtain this data, to transmit it to you and to all the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. The effort of insurance in relation to these sectors is completely inadequate. You saw it as I did, the insurance industry continues to make profits and has not even proposed a flat-rate reduction to the various sectors affected by the closures. We're in the middle of a bilateral negotiation. That's completely inadequate. In my view, the insurance sector has behaved shamefully throughout this crisis in relation to the sectors that have been affected by health measures. Have you asked the Economic Inspectorate, beyond this monitoring, to supervise all the steps taken by the various insurance companies? It's a sub-question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u16	No, there was no direct contact. The Economic Inspectorate was given many additional powers in the context of the covid crisis, but it did not intervene specifically in this area. It is clear that the SPF Economy, in general, was involved in particular in contacts with Assuralia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u17	Minister, in this case, I will come back to this issue because there is no reduction; there are future contract adjustments and extra time to pay. I am sorry to point out that your answer does not contain any insurance measures in respect of those sectors which are once again closed down by health measures. Is there, in this context, a commitment for these sectors once again hit by closures? I will allow myself to return very quickly to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u18	Minister, many families had signed a contract with the Flemish Energy Supplier after the V-test of the VREG. A lot of those customers had a fixed-rate contract and had to get their final bill. Some of these customers paid a lot more per month than what they eventually used up, and in that case they would normally have to get a lot of money back at the end of the contract. In the event of bankruptcy, people are advised to file a claim claim with the curator, but everyone knows that the consumer is almost the last in the line of creditors, after the government and the banks. It is therefore likely that the customers of the Flemish Energy Supplier will lose their paid advances. Since the company has applied for bankruptcy, customers are subject to a temporary and much more expensive emergency tariff from the system operator Fluvius. That runs up to 60 days and they need to look for a new contract. This is very topical, because these contracts are only going to be more expensive. This morning an increase of 36 % was announced at a month's time. For many families who are already hard to pay for their energy bills, it is therefore only becoming more difficult. They are actually hit twice by bankruptcy. Minister, consumers should be better protected from such matters. There are possibilities for that. Will you look at how we can better protect the consumer in the event of bankruptcy, for example by providing protection in the event of insolvency, such as in the case of package travel, by treating the consumer as a privileged creditor or by providing an affordable emergency rate, which is not really the case today? Do you consider certain slopes and are you in agreement with the relevant ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u19	Mrs Depraetere, this is the first time that such an exceptional situation has occurred. Consumers affected by a bankruptcy of an energy supplier should ensure that a new energy supplier is in the market as soon as possible. In the meantime, of course, they do not run out of electricity and are supplied by an emergency supplier. In Flanders, that is the network manager Fluvius, as you said. Before proposing solutions to protect consumers in the context of the bankruptcy of electricity suppliers, I must consult with my colleagues responsible for Economics, both at federal and regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u20	Mr Minister, it is indeed exceptional, but it is also impossible to predict whether these high price increases can continue to occur in the future. As mentioned above, the people facing these increases are hit twice. The situation does not look much better in the coming months, either, when they have to conclude a new contract. I hear you say that you should consult with the Energy Ministers. That is obvious, because they too are competent. I hope, however, that such consultations will actually take place. After all, there may be solutions for better consumer protection. In the times in which we are now, with these incredibly high energy prices, this initiative must be taken by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u21	Minister, last October I asked you to prevent the closure of the Belfius agency in my municipality of Morlanwelz. You answered me then, I quote the Report: "Some banks no longer wish to maintain their proximity network and this is again, for me, unacceptable." And you added: "Belfius, as a bank wholly owned by the state, must be exemplary in this respect." It was unacceptable but you accepted it, since the Morlanwelz agency is closed. Today, it was in Ghlin and Havre, in Mons' entity, that Belfius decided to close its agencies. In Ghlin, there's a market every Saturday morning. With this abolition, which follows those of DING and BNP Paribas, it is not only the 8,500 inhabitants who are affected but also all the traders present on the market who do not have Bancontact. If you accept these closures, the inhabitants of the villages of the Montoise entity will have to walk at least two hours to get to the city centre and to be able to recover cash. A recent motion of the Mons communal council, voted by the PS, Ecolo and the PTB, states, I quote: "The express request to the federal government to oppose the closure of the Belfius agencies of Ghlin and Havre." You are Minister of Economy and Belfius belongs to 100% of the state. So you have the power to prevent these closures. Minister, will you refuse to accept these closures or will you simply continue to say that such closures are unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u22	Minister, time is passing and the Batopin file is becoming more and more forgotten. However, questions persist and requests have not been answered on your part! Indeed, you announced that the National Bank should report to you on the accessibility of ticket distributors as part of the project of the country's four major banks. Unfortunately, we have still not been able to consult him. On the other hand, you finally indicated in committee that you would decide to impose standards to stop the disappearance of ticket distributors if the banks did not propose a new project that would be satisfactory. Minister, do you agree to provide us with the National Bank's report? I would like to insist on this because I have already asked you this question. What deadline have you set for banks to propose a new project to ensure the presence of ticket distributors? What follow-up have the banks at the base of the Batopin and Jofico projects given to your inquiries? Do you support our bill to set standards for banks to ensure the proximity of ticket distributors?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not vote on a particular distributor in a city or part of a commune, even if I am a convinced municipalist and I am committed to public service and to the presence of public and private services throughout the country, whether in town or in the countryside. Rather, I will address this issue in a general and comprehensive manner for the benefit of the entire population. As Minister of Economy, I do not see myself – I am not competent to do so, you know better or as well as I, Mr Van Hees – imposing on a banking agency the opening or closing of a particular agency. Things are much more complex than they seem. On the other hand, as Minister for the Economy, I can work on a framework to ensure the presence of basic banking services, including the presence of ticket distributors, throughout the country in a fair and equitable manner in order to enable all the population, whether urban or rural, to have access to these services. It was this work that I initiated, in consultation with the National Bank of Belgium in particular, that asked me to have an additional time to submit its analysis. I therefore do not yet have this one today, Mr D'Amico, which is why I am not in a position to convey it to you. But I am of course careful that the National Bank can carry out this work within a reasonable time frame. With this in mind, I have set up a working group within my cabinet, in collaboration with my colleagues, Finance Minister Vincent Van Peteghem and Secretary of State for Consumer Protection Eva De Bleeker, to start negotiations with the banking sector and to provide concrete and adequate answers to the problem of local banking services. As I have already said in this committee, I am favouring dialogue and negotiation for the time being, but if these do not reach a satisfactory conclusion in a short time, it is clear that I will choose the legislative path so that the whole Belgian population can be guaranteed the presence of basic and local banking services throughout the country. As for your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I have not yet had the opportunity or the time to analyse it. Once it's done, I'm sure I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u24	Minister, I hear your answer. You say that you are not going to decide on the closure of a Belfius agency in a particular municipality. I note that this is an end to not receiving on the motion of the Mons Communal Council, which was voted in particular by the communal councillors of your party. I think it's easy! On the one hand, you say you want to work on the frame, but clearly nothing is done and in the meantime, agency closures continue to accumulate. On the other hand, you say that you have no jurisdiction to impose anything on a banking agency. That's not true, Minister! This is Belfius, which belongs to 100% of the state. So you're the shareholder of this bank and a shareholder has the power to act. Maybe it's not simple, maybe there are procedures to follow, but in any case, you're the shareholder. A private shareholder imposes his views. As a public shareholder, you also have the power to impose your views, in this case the general interest to prevent closures by banks that have only a profit objective. I hear you've been working on an executive for months and months. Work is not progressing as agency closures progress. You continue to favour the path of dialogue, while the banks obviously do not hear it and do not want it. They want to keep closing agencies to make more profit. Your answer is deplorable, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u25	Minister, I note that you are still waiting for the report from the National Bank of Belgium, and I hope you will send it to us as soon as you receive it. On the other hand, you say that you will choose the legislative path if negotiations and dialogue do not lead, in a short time, to a solution. In the meantime, the distributors closed: 460 agencies and 730 distributors were closed in 2021. I'm sorry, but we don't have time to wait! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, I would of course like to wish you all, as well as all the services, a wonderful year of 2022. May it be prosperous and bring you and your loved ones health. We saw how indispensable it was. Likewise, I wish you success in all your projects. Mr Minister, during the previous parliamentary term, I carried with the Socialist Group in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation a proposal for a decree aimed at the transparency of institutions not recognised by the latter, which is better known as "false universities". This text, adopted in 2018 and entered into force on 1 January 2019, provides in particular for the obligation to inform students, with administrative sanctions in case of non-compliance. In 2016, the SPF Economy had 41 institutions not recognized by the public authorities and providing devoid of value in the public sector. In 2018, there were 81: 52 educational institutions in Brussels, 18 in Flanders and 11 in Wallonia. Minister, could you give us a snapshot of the situation? How many establishments have been identified in the different regions? Have any violations been observed? Do your services keep in touch with the Communities on this issue, in order to identify fraudulent establishments or, in any case, failing to provide information?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u27	Mr Prévot, thank you for your questions. The Economic Inspectorate examined a total of 85 establishments: 47 located in Brussels, 15 in Flanders, 8 in Wallonia and 15 international establishments. As far as these controls are concerned, I can give you the following figures: there have been no infringements in 15 establishments, while 11 others have ceased their activities; a total of 48 warnings and 13 minutes have been drawn up; 3 websites have been blocked and 3 files have been transmitted to foreign authorities for useful follow-up - Latvia, Turkey and France. Twenty-four establishments have regularized their situation following the control of the Economic Inspectorate and there is only one establishment that is still considered problematic. At present, the Economic Inspectorate is still receiving new reports and has already drawn up several minutes, all of which have been sent to the prosecutor's office, which in the meantime has opened judicial information. There have been no recent contacts between the Economic Inspectorate and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation or the Flemish authority on this subject, but the Economic Inspectorate is of course at their disposal if necessary. Finally, as you know, it is worth recalling that the powers of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation have recently been expanded and that it can now itself impose administrative fines on these false universities. This problem is now dealt with primarily at this level of power rather than at the federal level, although, as I mentioned a few moments ago, the Economic Inspectorate always receives new reports and systematically forwards them to the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u28	Mr Minister, thank you for taking stock of this matter, which is of great interest to me. At the time, I had submitted this proposal for a decree to the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. It was precisely because I was concerned about this with my colleagues who are now sitting in this House that I wanted to take stock with you, because I knew that reports were still being sent to the Economic Inspectorate. In view of the figures you are reporting to us (47 establishments in Brussels, 15 in Flanders and 8 in Wallonia), we were still on a huge number of establishments that posed a problem. The positive note of your answer is that this Economic Inspectorate has acted. This has led to permanent closures of establishments, 24 regularisations and, today, in any case, compared to the checks carried out, only one establishment would still be considered problematic, even though there are still new establishments and new fraudulent alerts from month to month. Mr Minister, I can therefore only invite you and the Economic Inspectorate to continue this good work and vigilance. I understand that the Economic Inspectorate is at the disposal of the federated entities. I will not fail to remind my colleagues, particularly my colleagues and friends who sit in government. But I think it might be a good idea for there to be regular contact so that the Economic Inspectorate can take stock of the federated entities on a regular basis. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, in the context of the corona crisis, the aid measures have prevented a total collapse of the economy, supported the income of families, but also laid the foundations for recovery. We have endeavoured to avoid the consequences as far as possible, without losing sight of the urgency of the situation. Due to the magnitude of the shock of the corona crisis, viable companies in temporary difficulties could look like zombie companies. After all, a number of companies make losses when the economy is not at its potential speed. It is important that we do not let these companies go down if we are not sure that they are effectively harmful to the health of the Belgian economy. It is therefore appropriate to protect the employment and human capital of enterprises which are temporarily in difficulty. Protecting these companies is better than risking losing them, by reducing aid in a fight against zombie companies. Within the various support measures, temporary unemployment has proved particularly effective in maintaining employment. The labour market remains robust, employment is largely back at pre-crisis levels and job creation remains positive. Temporary unemployment was not only supported by healthy companies, because of the lack of ad hoc instruments. In the case of loans to travel agents, checks are easier, given the smaller number of applications. Of the 72 applications in total, 70 were approved, of which 9 were only partial. Identifying zombie companies, especially in times of crisis, is a difficult exercise. It is not easy to distinguish between companies which have liquidity problems only and those which are insolvent. This is why the fear of zombification needs to be mitigated. Since the crisis involves major adjustments, it is also difficult to assess whether these are temporary or structural changes. In this legislature, however, we are taking various measures to strengthen healthy and fair competition between companies, thus reducing the number of zombie companies in the long term. We are doing this, for example, by transposing the ECN+ directive, which is now on the table in our committee. We are also using this transposition to strengthen the financial resources of the Belgian Competition Authority. This will enable us in the long or medium term to strengthen healthy competition, to ban zombie companies from the market, and to create new businesses and jobs. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the work of the administration which carries out an intensive audit of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises (CBO) to dismantle ghost companies that are no longer active.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u30	Minister, the N-VA has long advocated finer measures and more tailor-made measures. That's also what the Court of Auditors pointed out. I'm gonna miss that now. I am absolutely convinced that these measures have been necessary and that they have helped a lot of companies, but for Christmas holidays the children had to stay home for an extra week, and all parents received a note from the school saying that they could apply for temporary unemployment with that note. That was anything but fine-meshed. There were probably a lot of people who didn't need it, but they didn't bother looking for other shelters anymore. Of course, all that costs a lot of money. You say protecting is better than losing. That is true, of course, but the question remains: who can continue to pay it? Today there is an additional problem, namely that workers are being quarantined massively. They would actually fall back on temporary unemployment and lose 30% of their wages. What, however, happens very often at the moment? They call the doctor, they go on sick leave, and then the companies have to pay full wages. There are really serious problems coming at us. I am convinced that we need to be very critical and that we need to be more tailored to our businesses and our sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I wish all Members a very good 2022 and good luck in their parliamentary work. Mr Minister, my question to you concerns the recent condemnation of the Belgian State, that is, you, in the case of the basic banking service. The court has ruled that the State has been negligent because they would not have helped companies that have a problem opening a bank account. I have warned about this several times in the past. Your cabinet has dealt with the problem rather slowly. I always got a pretty laconic answer. I cannot get the impression that if you were, for example, unemployed people in Wallonia who do not have a bank account, you would have done a great deal of work on the problem. I regret that, specifically in this case, it is often about companies in Flanders. In particular, we see the problem in Antwerp. As a result, it seems as if your cabinet does not make an urgent matter of the problem. That is why I have the following questions for you. How will you respond to the conviction? What will you do about it? Can you assure us that the basic banking service for companies will be there as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Freilich has already indicated that the Brussels court has condemned the Belgian State because the basic banking service for companies is still not in operation. Yesterday there was also a ruling from the Antwerp company court, whereby ING risks a penalty payment of 1,000 euros a day, if the bank does not open the accounts for a particular company. I wonder how many convictions still have to be made before the basic banking service can operate effectively. However, Minister, there is a solution to the problem. We have worked out the basic banking service for companies here together in committee. This arrangement was adopted in plenary on 22 October 2020 and should normally enter into force on 1 May 2021. We have therefore been waiting for more than a year for the necessary implementing decisions, which you should take in your capacity as Minister, to implement the law effectively. During the discussion of your policy paper, you stated that the approved law should be amended as it does not provide a sufficient legal basis for the lawful processing of personal data. You said you would amend the law and submit that amendment to the GBA and the Council of State first. I can understand that something that has been approved needs to be adapted, but the deadline is now very long. Hence these questions, Minister. Firstly, what are the consequences of the judgment of the Brussels Court? Secondly, do you already have a preliminary draft law ready to implement the adaptation to the law of 8 November 2020? If so, have you already submitted that text to the GBA and the Council of State? Thirdly, when can we expect this preliminary draft in Parliament? I hope this will be soon. After all, we are already January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is the tradition, I wish you all a happy 2022 year, with good health; I am also particularly interested in the services that enable us to work on a daily basis. I wish that we discipline ourselves in our interventions, short, to the point, with as few repetitions as possible. I will apply this last criterion by referring to the written text of my question, as Mrs Dierick has touched on almost everything in her speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u34	However, this service is essential for the exercise of freedom of enterprise. That is why it was enshrined in a law passed a little over two years ago and supposed to come into force on 1 May 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u35	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my best wishes to everyone, the very best for everyone's projects. In particular, I wish us, politicians, to accept responsibility and not to be too ideological but above all to help the citizens with common sense, to make progress so that they can continue to trust in politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all with regard to the recent judgment, it is planned to appeal this judgment as soon as possible and to leave this matter to the judicial field. You know that I have a habit of scrupulously respecting the separation of powers, and never commenting on a court decision. I repeat that it is already planned to appeal this decision. As I have pointed out on many occasions, the development of a legal framework for the implementation of the basic banking service for businesses is complex and requires many steps. The implementation of the Law of 8 November 2020 on the basic banking service for enterprises does not take into account Community considerations. I really want to be clear on this. It is necessary to review the law of 8 November 2020 in order to establish a sufficient legal basis for the processing of personal data. To that end, the opinion of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) was requested at the end of last year and ODA now has a two-month deadline to deliver this opinion. My administration has also analyzed the option of retroactive legislative intervention. As a result, legislation on basic banking services for businesses would only enter into force later and, therefore, it would also be possible to apply this legislation later. Another track proved more appropriate for reasons of legal certainty and for achieving an appropriate basic banking service for businesses as soon as possible. This is a legislative initiative, in particular to bring it into line with the law of 8 November 2020, in the light of the opinions of the Data Protection Authority and the Council of State Legislation Division. It is also a question of preparing the necessary implementing measures, which also take account of the changes made to the law. The time of implementation of the implementing measures for the basic banking service for businesses will be linked to the time when the above-mentioned amendments to the Act of 8 November 2020 will be adopted. To be very clear with you, my objective is to be able to pass the amendments to the law of 8 November 2020, and therefore to be able to take the implementation and enforcement measures before the end of the first half of 2022. ODA has two months to deliver its opinion. On this basis, the work will continue with the desire to be able to respond as quickly as possible to this problem, which concerns companies from the north of the country but also companies from the south of the country and even Brussels. My will is to be able to respond as quickly as possible, taking into account the difficulties and complexity of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am glad to hear that it has become clear that there is urgency. It's a complex legal matter, you say. I do not necessarily agree with that. Everything is complex, everything can be made very legal and difficult. It is about the will to find an answer to that as soon as possible. Subject to the timely submission of the texts, a solution can be found very quickly. I have heard you say that before the end of the first semester you want to have a final legal framework. I take note of that. I hope it'll be all right by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. For the record, this is not a Community file for me. It is a file that is important for many entrepreneurs, no matter where they are located. I think the conviction is an embarrassment. One will appeal and I am curious to hear the verdict. For me, it is particularly important that a solution is found and that the approved basic banking service can enter into force. I understand the need to adapt certain matters. That takes time, but I have to admit that this is taking too long for me. This should have been resolved sooner, it could have been discussed more quickly. The entrepreneurs have been waiting for this for a very long time. I remember the GBA has two months to answer. You hope this will be approved by the end of the first semester. You can count on our support to get this through Parliament quickly. At the first discussion there was a consensus on this in committee and I hope that we can find it now. I hope that this is the very last question I have to ask about this and that it can now be approved as soon as possible so that we can help the entrepreneurs in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. The problem is not at all Community: the needs also exist in Wallonia, I confirm. The urgency is there, but you are experiencing difficulties in moving forward quickly. The reason I asked you is that the urgency is being felt on the ground. You will be able to count on the support of Parliament and my group in particular to move the matter forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that the deadline will now be respected and that your cabinet's proposal will be implemented quickly, so that we can get to work immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a fantastic 2022. I think we will need and be able to extract a great deal of energy from small things. In particular, Minister, I sincerely believe that I wish you better news than what you received in 2021. Mr President, Minister, since my question is quite technical, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u42	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the draft for transposition does indeed provide for the rules mentioned. Article 15 (9) (2) of the Digital Single Market Directive states that Member States should provide for out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms. However, the Directive leaves the Member States the freedom to decide what form these mechanisms should take. It was chosen to use the out-of-court dispute settlement mechanism in Belgian law as part of the transposition process. As regards your question about a rightholder in another European country, I can tell you that the mechanism is aimed at the Belgian market. In particular, whether a service provider targets its activities to users who have their registered office or habitual residence in Belgium is important. If that is the case, it does not matter whether there is a rightholder from another European country. As far as the reasonable share of the costs of mediation is concerned, the draft provides for a number of criteria and the explanatory statement also gives an explanation of that provision. The mediator may, at the request of the Parties, make a non-binding proposal to allocate the costs, including the reasonable part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand from your reply that the draft includes the way in which the scheme for rightholders is applied in another European country, as well as the criteria for determining the reasonable share. The Directive had to be transposed by early June 2021. When you discussed the budget notes, you said that the draft law transposing the directive would normally be submitted to our committee at the beginning of this year. In the meantime, do you have a better idea of the timing of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u44	In 2019, the European Copyright and Related Rights Directive was adopted in the Digital Single Market. This Directive was to become national law by 7 June 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u45	Mr Minister, since you did not answer the last question of my previous oral question, I would like to add it. Do you have any idea when the draft law transposing the directive will be submitted to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, after a consensus can be reached on the last point, the submission to Parliament can be followed. I hope that this can happen in February or at the latest in early March. The additions you mentioned in your second question were made to support the negotiations between the platforms and the publishers of press publications and thus to provide an effective right to publish press. The parties to a negotiation may at any time, in accordance with common law, seek mediation. However, this is always voluntary. The duration of the mediation is not defined. This would undermine the flexibility offered by the conciliation procedure. The rules governing the procedure for BIPT provide that, before recourse can be made to this procedure, the parties must first make an attempt to reach a negotiated solution. If this fails within four months of a reasoned request to open the negotiations, this procedure may be invoked for the BIPT. This previous four-month phase may include an attempt at mediation, but that is not necessary. Article 15 of the Directive contains an exclusive right for publishers of press publications. This means that the rightholder must give his consent before protective equipment can be used. The additions to which you refer do not prejudice this exclusive right, but are aimed at supporting the negotiations between the parties. Only in the extreme event that no agreement can be reached will the procedure for BIPT be invoked. The BIPT may take a binding decision in accordance with its procedural rules. However, preference is given to a result achieved through negotiations between the parties. The tariff is ideally achieved by negotiation between the parties and it is contained in the nature of the exclusive right that the parties determine the tariff themselves in a negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u47	Thank you, Minister. It all sounds very technical. The directive itself seems very technical, but in practice it can have a major impact. I also think that is why there is still discussion on one point. I remember the discussions and negotiations at European level on the implementation of the directive itself. A lot has also been e-mailed about this. I understand that this would be Article 18 of the directive on fair compensation. I look forward to the way in which it will be effectively transposed and what the draft law will look like. I also understood from your reply that this would be a binding proposal because of the BIPT. With regard to prices, particular attention will be paid to those involved. Like I said, it's pretty technical. We must also take account of the fact that within our committee we take the time to examine the draft law as soon as it is presented and to hear those involved. For them there are major consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u48	Minister, I know that being right and getting right is not always the same. I wish I hadn't been right in the past, because everyone has undoubtedly felt that life has become more expensive. Much has already been said in the past about rising energy prices that would trigger inflation. For a large part that is true, of course, but there are other reasons for that. After all, today we see that our economy has partly overheated after the recovery of the weakening of the corona crisis. We note this, for example, at commodity prices. They're high and they're gonna stay high. It is not likely that they will descend quickly. We also have to deal with the bullwhip effect within the supply chain. This means that the price increase starts with the raw materials and will be delayed in the chain until it finally reaches the consumer. This is because companies do not initially pass on the price increases of raw materials to their customers because they believe that they are of a temporary nature and will decrease again. Over time, however, they will no longer be able to do so and the price increases will continue in the chain until they end up being delayed by consumers. I have just said that energy prices are firing inflation, but that is not the only factor. For example, core inflation was 1.95 % in October and 2.53% in December. You will recall that during our night sitting I said that we would not solve that problem that night and that I would come back to it. I am doing this today because I think that we should have this debate in detail. That is absolutely necessary. Let us now look at the opinion on the inflation of the European Central Bank, but also of yourself, Minister, and of Secretary of State Dermine. You have maintained since the summer of last year that inflation has been a temporary problem caused by COOVID-19. COOVID-19, of course, has begun to develop, but I still have the feeling that the longer, the more specialists in the interior, in Europe and elsewhere in the world begin to say that inflation will become permanent. Your colleague, Secretary of State De Bleeker, also indicated in the days after the nightly plenary session that she is beginning to suspect that inflation is not temporary but is becoming permanent. We are debating this, both in this committee and in the plenary, but you insist that inflation is temporary in nature. A few days later, your colleague De Bleeker says it is a permanent fact. I simply note that there is no consensus on this within the government either. In response to my interview last year, you maintained that inflation would only be 1.6 % in 2021. In the meantime, the pivot index has already been exceeded twice. I can assure you that the third overrun of the central index is coming. In November 2021, inflation was 5,64 % and in December it appeared to be much higher. Limited inflation is not a problem in itself, because inflation also says something about the prosperity of a country, the added value an economy can create in a country. However, these high inflation rates are alarming and worrying. We have asked questions about this in plenary, and it is always answered that we have a system of automatic wage indexation. To a large extent that is true, it is a unique instrument and it does not exist in other countries in that way. I am not saying that we need to touch on automatic wage indexation; we must, of course, maintain and honour it. However, I note that wage adjustments in countries such as the Netherlands and Germany work in a different way, which increases labour costs in Belgium much faster than in our neighbouring countries. In this way, our companies face a competitive disadvantage, albeit temporary, as the neighbouring countries will eventually be able to keep up. However, the latest wage indexations already represent 7.5 billion euros in rising labour costs this month and companies will redistribute these costs to their customers. As a result, core inflation will rise again and we will face rising wage costs again. For example, we are in danger of falling into a wage-price spiral that is not broken. For those who work and receive a wage at the end of the month, there is no immediate problem. After all, wages are indexed. There is, however, the problem of falling purchasing power and vaporizing savings. In 2021, people's savings had already gone up in smoke as a result of inflation. Someone will only have spared his whole life to turn to his savings now to pay the retirement home or make up for it, because his pension is too low. He sees his savings fall by 6% in value and, as a result of rising inflation, even by 10% in total. That's very acidic and unfortunate. We must do something about this. Inflation does indeed play all over Europe and the world. That is true, of course, but if inflation here is going to be 5% compared to 3% in the rest of Europe, then we are not doing very well. We are therefore facing a major problem, all the more so because, according to ING Belgium's figures, economic growth in 2022 will be only 2.9 % compared to an average of 3.8 % in the rest of Europe. This means, first of all, that inflation is much greater than our economic growth, which is not good. Secondly, we are not a good student in the European classroom. In short, rising inflation is causing a greater problem here than in our neighbouring countries or the rest of Europe. With the introduction of the euro, we have largely, not to say completely, given our monetary policy to the European Central Bank, which means that we cannot deal with a particular economic problem here. It is a pity that despite America's adjustment of interest rate policy with Jay Powell, because it cannot sustain such low interest rates, it is decided here in Europe not to do so. If Europe raises interest rates, public debt will become more expensive. Indeed, public debt becomes cheaper at non-rising interest rates and therefore inflation, but this goes against the interests of the consumer. That is what needs to be looked at. In addition, higher interest rates could partially stop the overheating of the economy. Can a negative short-term interest rate still be justified in the current economic situation? Mr Minister, if you warn elsewhere in the world that high inflation is not temporary in nature and will become permanent, while the debates here in Parliament say something else, I find that strange. Do you still believe that inflation is temporary, as the European Central Bank continues to claim? Or do you think it's structural after all? What measures do you propose to take to break the wage price spiral that we are facing? What will you do to safeguard purchasing power? Are you prepared, for example, to reduce taxes and charges on energy and labour in order to curb prices and protect the purchasing power and competitiveness of our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u49	Mr Van Lommel, in 2021, inflation rose systematically to 5.6 percent in December. In particular, the energy product group is at the root of this increase, which is no surprise. Change is not expected for the next few months. Inflation is likely to remain at a high level in the first half of 2022. In the third quarter, inflation was expected to decline and even more in the fourth quarter, under the influence of declining energy prices. The Federal Planning Office predicts a fall in inflation in 2022. However, inflation would only fall below 3% in November 2022. Given the pronounced fall in inflation in the course of 2022, the risk of a wage price spiral does not seem to be very high. Although consumer prices are rising, both automatic indexation and complementary government measures protect purchasing power, for example through the social tariff for electricity and gas. Belgium's cost competitiveness would deteriorate slightly in 2022, but would be compensated from 2023 and 2024 onwards. In our neighbouring countries, too, rising inflation will lead to rising wage costs through social negotiations. The only difference with Belgium is that Belgian workers do not need to receive inflation compensation in wage negotiations. This is a very important social achievement, which I will not touch. Those who question that principle agree with the fact that employees will earn less. I would remind you that the automatic indexation of wages and social benefits only ensures that the cost of living is monitored. I am convinced that if inflation is too high and too persistent, the European Central Bank will not hesitate to take the necessary measures to adjust monetary policy and correct the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u50	Mr Minister, you acknowledge that inflation has indeed risen to 5.6 percent in December and that it will remain high until the third quarter, but you add that it will decrease afterwards. That statement reminds me of the statement that high inflation is temporary, which we discussed a number of times last year. In the meantime, the spill-over index has already been exceeded twice and I expect it to be, I say to you today, note 12 January 2022 soon. So you cannot claim that inflation will slow down again. I will have to conclude once again that, unfortunately, history is right. You say the chances of a wage price spiral are not great. I must contradict you, because the 7.5 billion additional labour costs that companies will have to pay from this month on must be paid by someone, and that will ultimately be consumers. Everything will be calculated in the supply chain until the final customer. Everyone already feels it in the wallet in the shop, with construction contractors, insurance premiums and so on. Everything has become more expensive and will remain so. Higher wage costs will be re-calculated. You continue to underestimate the problem. At the very end, you spoke briefly about the European Central Bank. He'll take her responsibility. We don't have those tools in our hands anymore. I expect you, together with Minister Van Peteghem, to look at monetary policy to give the European Central Bank the necessary signals. In the current economic situation, it is no longer justified to maintain negative interest rates in the short term. There is an economic principle that says inflation will encourage new inflation. We're in a spiral and we need to get out. I am not saying that we need to touch on automatic wage indexation; there are other methods. A first possibility is to curb inflation by, among other things, reducing taxes on energy. A second possibility is to reduce the burden on labour costs, leaving people net more and not increasing labour costs for companies. In this way one can control the competitive disadvantage. You believe that competitiveness will deteriorate by 2022, which will then be compensated by 2023-2024. This confirms that we are always faced with a competitive disadvantage in the short term. However, this will not dry up in 2023-2024. After all, if we get into a wage price spiral, our competitiveness will remain lower compared to our neighbouring countries. Up until now, I'm gonna keep knocking on that nail. I feel that I will have to continue to do so, because you simply do not take this issue seriously. It is not explained to the people that their savings evaporate. It just can't be. Mr President, I have also prepared a motion for a recommendation to that effect today. I will hand it over to you in a moment to repeat our concern and ask the government to take a number of measures in this respect. I have just mentioned three, but there are many more possible measures. I would ask you, at least, to start with these three measures and to take the problem seriously. I'm really afraid we're not gonna get there this way. Our inflation rates are much higher than elsewhere in Europe and we have lower economic growth than the average in Europe. So we're just having a bad time. If we don't intervene now, we're gonna have a snowball that we're rolling forward and that's only gonna get bigger. That can't be solved anymore. I know what your approach is. Let that inflation come, our public debt is getting smaller. That is a good thing for us, our problem is solved. Please think of the people, think of the people's money. That must be your concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u51	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the previous questions, interviews and interventions to the Minister on the subject, - whereas the problem of inflation was considered to be predominantly minimalist by the government; - in view of the sharp rise in energy prices which have had a significant impact on inflation; - in view of the scarcity of raw materials on a global scale, caused by increasing demand as a result of the economic recovery after COVID-19, - considering the bullwhip effect in the supply chain that slows down price increases and can reasonably be expected to continue the inflation trend in 2022 and, in addition, lead to a higher price level for consumers; - whereas calculated price increases will in general no longer be withdrawn, will remain permanent and will lead to an increase in the inflation basket; - whereas inflation implies that: - will further reduce the value of savings and that 20 billion euros of savings have already evaporated in 2021; - the purchasing power of consumers is falling; - an increase in wages is necessary, which will then be passed on to the final customer with a new inflation and which has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Flemish companies; asks the government - take measures concerning rising wage costs, which imply that net wages increase without affecting the competitiveness of Flemish companies and avoid a wage spiral; - to reduce taxes on energy in order to reduce inflation; - take initiatives to urge the ECB to review the current interest rate policy; - to ensure maximum protection of the purchasing power and savings of our consumers; - a vicious inflationary circle that would be caused by breaking the current economic context." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - having regard to the questions, inquiries and interventions previously addressed to the Minister in this regard; - Whereas the Government's approach to the issue of inflation has essentially been to minimize inflation; - in view of the rise in energy prices which has significantly affected inflation; - in view of the global shortage of raw materials due to an increase in demand resulting from the post-covid economic recovery; - Whereas the surge effect in the supply chain as a result of which the increase in prices was passed on late and whereas it can reasonably be assumed that the inflationary trend will not weaken in 2022 and that, in addition, these increases lead to an increase in the price level for consumers; - Whereas, in general, the price increases passed on are no longer withdrawn and will remain permanent, resulting in a bid for the basket of products taken into account for the calculation of inflation; - Whereas inflation implies that: - saving will continue to lose its value, with inflation already evaporating €20 billion in savings in 2021; - the purchasing power of consumers is declining; - an increase in wages is necessary, which will again be passed on to the final customer resulting in new inflation which will damage the competitiveness of Flemish enterprises; asks the government - to take measures to increase wage costs which would result in net wages increasing without affecting the competitiveness of Flemish enterprises, thereby avoiding a spiral of wages and prices; - to reduce energy taxes in order to curb inflation; - take initiatives to encourage the ECB to reconsider its current interest rate policy; - to protect as much as possible the purchasing power and savings of our consumers; - to break the vicious cycle of inflation which would be caused by the current economic context." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leslie Leoni. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Leslie Leoni. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u52	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my best wishes to you and to colleagues and to the minister, and especially to his loved ones. Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the follow-up to the catastrophic floods this summer. I will start by referring to Jacques Teller, director of the LEMA laboratory in ULiège, who is responsible by the Walloon Parliament's committee of inquiry for carrying out a citizen consultation on the floods. A few weeks ago, he warned of the risk of administrative burn-out that weighed on the victims who, in their dealings, sometimes feel like they are facing a wall. In particular, he quoted a person who had lost everything: "The worst was not the thirty hours spent on the roof, the worst is after... I should have let myself go." These words are cold in the back. At the heart of this administrative distress are, very often, the formalities to be carried out with insurance companies. While many of them do their work in a correct and honest manner, it must be noted – and that is what I have on the ground – that certain behaviours raise questions, mainly with regard to expertise and counter-expertise, sometimes with the behaviour of certain experts that can be described as casual or problems related to the payment of "undoubtedly due". There is a body in Belgium which, in my view, is too little known and which can act as an arbiter in this matter. This is the Insurance Ombudsman. Impartial, he's acting if he's solicited. At present, however, he is investigating only 125 cases related to the mid-July disaster. This figure appears to be low for the 38,543 housing units affected. The process of soliciting the Ombudsman is quite simple. It requires only three elements: the description of the problem with the insurance company, the contact details of that company or the insurance intermediary and a file number. I think it would be very interesting to improve the visibility of this service, of this tool. Why, for example, do not organise information sessions in consultation and even in collaboration with the municipalities and the CPAS, or even permanences in the heavily affected municipalities? Minister, does this battery of measures seem to you to be possible? Have any contacts been made with the Ombudsman on this point? If so, within what time frame could these information, awareness-raising, contact and availability activities be undertaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u53	Mr Ben Achour, I share your sentiment and the observations that you are bringing back from your ground. I also have similar returns in my municipality with very different situations: disaster victims who have experienced almost no difficulty with their insurance companies, brokers, experts and counter-experts, and others who are still at the beginning of what seems to be an administrative and procedural marathon, which is totally unacceptable given the situation in which they are living today and the tragedies they have experienced. I agree with you that they need help to enforce their rights at the level and to their insurance companies, brokers, experts and counter-experts. I have therefore contacted the Insurance Ombudsman on this matter. Like you, I also think that the latter has a particularly important role to play in helping disaster victims overcome problems with insurance. In this context, I am convinced that information and exchange sessions where the victims could ask their questions, present their problems and their personal situations are first desirable but above all necessary. Thanks to your question, I was able to lay the foundations for the setting up of a first meeting to be held in Verviers between the Ombudsman, local actors including CPAS, as well as the people affected. I hope that this will be a success in helping the victims better. If this is the case – but I think so – I am convinced that this format can and will have to be replicated in other places and in other affected areas. It is important, however, to draw attention to the fact that the Ombudsman's procedure is quite simple. But it must be written. It is also an impartial procedure, which is also important to remind those affected. It requires the initiation of an investigation, the analysis of the documents in the file and the arguments of the various parties. As a result, the Ombudsman will not be able to respond directly to the victims of their particular circumstances when they are in conflict with their insurers during the information sessions for the victims. But this will indeed allow us to initiate and introduce the written procedure as you mentioned it. In addition, in order to best prepare these contacts and information sessions, the Ombudsman's Office is finalising leaflets explaining its operation, so that they can be distributed to the municipalities concerned and to the victims. This will increase awareness of the Ombudsman's service and how it can intervene in disputes and difficulties between victims and insurers. By doing so, it will help those affected better. I am therefore particularly attentive to this first meeting to be held in Verviers and I think that we will have to reproduce this experience in other parts of the territory which have been heavily affected by the terrible floods of July. Thank you for your question and for the suggestion made to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u54	Minister, thank you very much for this important answer. It is true that between the writing of my question and this morning things have moved. Indeed, a series of initiatives have already been taken in Verviers, my city. This would allow Verviers to be a pilot city and perhaps contribute to the design of a replicable model elsewhere, since there are a large number of affected municipalities and territories in Wallonia and some in Flanders as well. I personally had a series of contacts with the Ombudsman and I discovered a service that I didn't know but that seems to me really more than interesting, and even necessary as you said yourself. As has been said, it is an impartial service that allows the victims no longer to have as their interlocutor someone from whom they sometimes feel that they are judges and parties. It is likely to reassure and appease in a whole series of situations that today are problematic. It should also be noted that this service is free of charge. This is an essential aspect, because it is part of the greatness of the public service. It must provide objective answers to questions relating to delays in expertise, problems in interpreting the terms of the contract, refusal of intervention, the behaviour of certain experts, the opacity of several expertises and the lack of justification or motivation in refusing intervention or in what sometimes appears to be an underestimation of compensation, etc. I am talking about it so that we can take the measure - and this is obviously your case - of the scale of the difficulties associated with insurance. The Ombudsman seems to me to be a solution as an interlocutor that can provide a reliable response. Six months after these disasters, it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u55	Remember that you have a minute for the replica.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u56	Mr President, I drew inspiration from my predecessor who had taken more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u57	Yes, but it was in the context of an arrest. You are always free to question your minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u58	Mr President, this is an important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u59	Yes, it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u60	Buying or building a property is for many people one of the most important decisions of their lives and also the most expensive decision. If they have to leave the house because of a fault in the construction by an architect, contractor or builder because the property is declared uninhabitable, these people will end up in a nightmare. This summer, at least 25 families in Sint-Truiden were forced to leave their homes because the stability and fire safety could no longer be guaranteed after it became apparent that the wood-massage building of the complex is rotten. In the meantime, these people, as well as others who are in the same situation, have to find another place to live and, in addition to paying off their loan for a house that was declared uninhabitable, also pay rent for their new home.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u61	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, thank you for your question. I am aware of this problem. In the last three years, the insurance Ombudsman received only a dozen files on this subject, but the building was never uninhabitable. Victims cannot be immediately compensated because the liability of, for example, the architect or contractor must be established before the liability insurer concerned can act. It may take some time. An insurer will therefore not offer an advance until he is sure to provide his cover. The creation of a fund in which insurers each deposit a part and to which victims can rely is not feasible because of the fact that it is not certain that an insurer should intervene. An insurer cannot be required to ensure a building that does not comply with safety standards, especially if the safety of persons is at risk. In that case, the building is uninsurable. It is indeed being examined how citizens can be better protected when buying a house or doing renovations. It concerns, in particular, the management of the risk of insolvency arising from the contractor, and the payment by the consumer of significant amounts, whereas there is not sufficient guarantee of properly executed procurement works and the liability regime for procurement works in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u62	Minister, I understand that it is not an easy situation at all. I also understand that insurers first want to know whether they should intervene effectively or not. In practice, however, this creates serious problems for citizens. They have a house that is declared uninhabitable, they get no compensation, but they still have to pay for a house that is no longer habitable, they have to pay off another loan. In the meantime, they still have to provide for another place of residence, they often have to pay rents. That's actually a financial noose around those people's neck. They fall between two seats. It is a pity that a fund is not a solution. I certainly want to keep looking at a possible solution for those people. They have not chosen it themselves and are the victims of malicious practices or major errors by the contractor or the supplier of building materials. Hopefully, there is still some way to help the victims and, above all, to avoid that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u63	Mr President, first of all, I wish everyone all the best. I thank the committee for welcoming me, since I am not used to sitting there. I'm looking forward to seeing you today. Minister, for SABCA, the year 2022 began relatively badly. Indeed, it learned that it had finally lost the market for the maintenance of European F-16s, in the face of a remedy from a Polish company. The latter, WZL2, was awarded the contract. The duration of the initial agreement was five years renewable for a turnover estimated at $250 million over 10 years, and hundreds of direct jobs in Charleroi and on a basis spread across Europe. It should be noted that this decision came from the US Department of Defense and not from the Lockheed Martin manufacturer. On the other hand, there are many questions about the quality and competence of the Polish company in the face of the experience of several decades of SABCA. It therefore appears that the decision is primarily political and aims at thanking a large buyer of U.S. military equipment. Hence, the question also arises of the societal returns negotiated during the purchase by Belgium of the F-35 fighter aircraft of the same manufacturer. The Belgian government at the time had announced large-scale societal returns, but they had yet to materialise. Prime Minister Charles Michel said: "For every euro spent with the F-35, there will be a euro won." Minister, what is your reaction to this announcement by the U.S. Department of Defense? Have you contacted SABCA to eventually offer it diplomatic assistance? Do you have any contact with the U.S. government on this matter? How can you evaluate societal returns today under the F-35 contract? Will the previous government's promises be kept? How much can we expect feedback on this EUR 3.8 billion contract (low estimate)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u64	You're always welcome in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u65	Member, as you said, this is a decision of the United States Air Force (US Air Force) to award the contract for the maintenance of the F-16 fleet in Europe to the American firm AAR and the Polish firm WZL2. Initially, the contract was awarded, as you mentioned, to SABCA. However, following complaints from competitors, the US Air Force decided to re-evaluate the offers. This second assessment was in favour of Poland. In this case, the necessary contacts have been made with SABCA in order to provide public support to SABCA, as far as possible and in compliance with competition rules. In this case, since the judicial procedure has not yet been completed, we would like to remain cautious. Some 30 Belgian stakeholders were involved in the various measures proposed by Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney in the best and final offer concerning the F-35 programme. To date, fifteen agreements in various forms and stages have been drawn up. These are agreements in principle, framework contracts, contracts, projects, development contracts, technical assistance. The potential value added of these measures – thus, there is no question here of contract value or turnover – had been estimated at €1.845 billion for the Belgian economy in 2018, on the basis of the best and final offer proposals, provided that all the measures envisaged were implemented and that the assessment had been made on the basis of the information available to the evaluation team of the SPF Economy and the Ministry of Defence at the time of the award of this contract. It should be recalled, as the Court of Auditors has been informed, that the return offer relating to the F-35 does not constitute an undertaking of result but depends on market conditions, so the final result may be higher or lower than the measured values. Since the implementation of the signed agreements is still in the start-up phase and further negotiations are still under way, it is still too early to assess the concrete impact on jobs or the economy, as well as returns on investment. Provisionally, the Belgian value added estimated on the basis of the 2018 assessment of the fifteen agreements already drawn up can currently be located at around 700 million euros, achievable over an overall period of 20 years and from business plans of different duration – of course, if all the preconditions, including financing, are fulfilled. As always, this estimate is subject to changes in market conditions which may still fluctuate significantly. That, honourable Member, is the few answers I could give you on this complex and evolving issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as SABCA's maintenance contract is concerned, I think the message from the Americans is quite clear. This seems regrettable to me for the staff. Nevertheless, I note that judicial proceedings are still under way. We will therefore remain cautious, hoping that the result will be positive for all staff. With regard to the F-35's societal returns, I must confess my concerns with regard to the numerical promises. You mentioned an estimate of $1.8 billion. We are now estimated at 700 million. I doubt that we will achieve the amount announced, but the promises only bind those who believe in it. They were probably necessary to pass the pill to the population at the time. Our group had never believed in it and was probably right. I hope I can come back to you in two years. Maybe you'll tell us you've kept those promises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament 55023804C by Mrs Chanson will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 5, by Mrs Chanson. 55023822C by Mrs Houtmeyers. Colleagues, we will continue with the questions to Minister De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, first of all I wish you a wonderful year. Coming from the United States, Black Friday is increasingly successful in our country. This success led to increasingly common scams, as reported by the press, such as this Whirlpool fridge sold at the Mediamarkt store in Waterloo, where it increased from 388 euros to 499 euros. Of course, we cannot talk about reductions. The brand's spokesperson explains this sudden price increase due to the cyber attack experienced by the brand. The problem had been solved on 18 November, while the Black Friday was on 26 November. According to some customers, Mediamarkt's practice is not new. This method would be practiced every year and not only by this home appliance store. According to the French consumer association UFC-Que Choisir, prices announced before and during the Black Friday fell by only 2% on average. Reference prices are artificially inflated during the weeks prior to Black Friday to accelerate the switch to purchase. More broadly, the Economic Inspectorate has conducted year-round surveys of price displays in all kinds of shops. Of the 2,038 establishments inspected, 803 were in violation. That's a very important figure. Madam Secretary of State, has the Inspectorate observed an increase in fraud during the Black Friday period? What types of fraud are involved in particular? Are these offences concentrated on a limited number of businesses or a more diffuse phenomenon? Does the Inspectorate have an action plan or does it plan to strengthen controls as the Black Friday approaches? Finally, do you consider the legal framework sufficient, given the large number of offences I was talking about a few moments ago? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u69	Mr President, good year also to the Secretary of State. Madam Secretary of State, as you know, my group is very vigilant with regard to business practices deployed during days such as Black Friday or Cyber Monday. A few weeks ago, we tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. At the beginning of December, however, it seems that new fraudulent business practices have been noticed by our fellow citizens. My colleague, Mr. Patrick Prévot, just talked about it. Yet, a year ago, during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2020, controls had been carried out, especially with regard to online sales sites. Results: 17 out of 31 sites tested were found to be infringing. Of these 17 sites, 10 are operated by Belgian companies. Infringements found involve misleading pricing practices. So the irregularities between the prices displayed during the Black Friday, those fixed before today, and the veracity of the proposed reductions, as my colleague said, are pointed out. According to the 2020 annual report of the SPF Economy, a report was drawn up and sent to Belgian companies in breach. As far as foreign companies are concerned, the findings of infringement have been communicated to the competent authorities for any useful follow-up. The Economic Inspectorate has also conducted surveys of price displays in all kinds of shops. Madam Secretary of State, these are my questions. Can you indicate the names of the Belgian companies which were in breach in 2020 and which received a report? Also, have they been checked again during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2021? If so, what are the results of these controls? What actions have the competent authorities initiated with regard to foreign companies in breach? What happened to the Economic Inspectorate's price display surveys? How many investigations are we talking about? How many of them have resulted in sanctions? Finally, what steps have been taken by your administration and the Economic Inspectorate to combat fraudulent business practices during the last Black Friday?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u70	Mr President, first of all, I wish Members, interpreters and staff a good year. I hope that 2022 will give us more freedom and more opportunities to see each other. I'm confined to myself right now. About Black Friday, 39 reports were received for the 2020 edition. The Economic Inspectorate received 40 reports for 2021, but it never disclosed the names of the controlled companies. Most of the reports concern misleading pricing practices, the method of calculating the price or the existence of a specific price advantage (Article VI.97, 4° of the Code of Economic Law). As a result of these reports, 23 investigations were initiated. These investigations are still ongoing and a file has been sent to a foreign authority. One of the competent authorities for the majority of cases concerning foreign companies for which the Economic Inspectorate has found infringements has informed us that it does not intend to introduce controls on reference prices before the entry into force of the Omnibus Directive on 28 May 2022. The authority involved has not yet responded to our request for action. In 2021, the Economic Inspectorate carried out 6,776 price display checks. In 1,967 cases, one or more legal devices were found to be in violation. These controls led to the drafting of 1,758 warning minutes and 252 minutes. Throughout the year, the economic inspection continues to monitor compliance with the economic regulations which include the rules on balances and waiting periods and the prohibition of unfair market practices, including misleading pricing practices, the method of calculating the price or the existence of a specific price advantage. The legal framework changes in the sense that from 28 May 2022, as a result of the transposition of the so-called modernisation Directive 2019/2161, or Omnibus, undertakings will be obliged to indicate the reference price which will be the lowest price charged by the undertaking for a period of not less than 30 days before the application of the price reduction. The objective of this obligation will be to inform the consumer in a correct and more transparent manner of the price reduction applied. That is the answer to the questions. I therefore believe that as of May 28, 2022, we will really have a more effective tool to respond to the problem you raise in your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for taking a snapshot of the situation. On the basis of the many figures you have given us, we realize first of all that questionable or even fraudulent practices are legion, and that they deceive and deceive consumers. Black Friday is often described as an overconsumption initiative, but if, in addition, the consumer is deceived and stolen without his knowledge, this is a double penalty that cannot be tolerated. Beyond all the quite interesting figures you have given, there is this clarification from May 28, 2022, with these companies – as you said – who will be obliged to give the reference price that was applicable at least 30 days before the discount applied sometimes for sales, sometimes for Black Friday. I therefore hope that this measure will constitute an additional safeguard which will prevent these companies from seeking to steal or deceive the consumer. I assume that despite this new safeguard, the Economic Inspectorate will continue to carry out censuses and go to businesses to control these prices, so that this widespread practice is much less common in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u72	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. With regard to the disclosure of company names, it is not a matter of disclosing the names of the companies under investigation, but of those that have had a sanction. Once the sanction is given and it is effective, the point and shame can work: this increases the strike force of economic control. We are all waiting for the European omnibus regulation: Europe is also here to protect consumers. Clearly, it is at European level that we must act on international companies. Your responsibility in the European fora is very important for moving this issue forward, like others who will come to the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u73	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, there will be many anglicisms in my questions today, as you will see. Scalping consists of buying products in stores and sometimes selling them twice the price on the internet. Recently, the media reported the example of the Primark de Charleroi at the Rive Gauche shopping centre in which some consumers would rob shelves from the opening, and then sell the products on the Internet two, or even three times more expensive, on Vinted or others. This phenomenon is already known for concert tickets, which is why the law of 1 October 2013 was promulgated to prohibit the practice. A simple and simplistic solution to this problem would be to limit the number of products per customer in order to satisfy everyone, but this runs counter to commercial freedom. That is why, in my view, we need to strengthen controls. Madam Secretary of State, does the SPF Economy have any figures to tell us about the scale of the scalping phenomenon in recent years? Is there a decline or an increase in practice? In addition to the particular case of the Primark de Charleroi, which has been reported by the press, are other chains of shops victims of the phenomenon? Are you considering strengthening the controls against scalping? Finally, is an extension of the law of 1 October 2013 on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u74	Dear colleague, there are indeed many English words in your question. Perhaps it is because these are practices that are taking place, coming from the English-speaking world. Reports have been made to the Economic Inspectorate via the point of contact with certain high-tech products, but these are often pure scams, including fake foreign online shops that offer products at the usual price, but ultimately deliver nothing and are then offline; or resale at a derisory price via second-hand platforms, following which there is no delivery either. As a result, no targeted investigations have been conducted into this phenomenon. The Economic Inspectorate is not aware that other channels than Primark have been victims of this phenomenon. In the case of resale between consumers, only the principle of freedom of contract applies. The parties may themselves choose with whom they enter into a contract and, therefore, what price they are willing to pay for a particular product. It is therefore up to the consumer to be vigilant before concluding the contract, in particular when exorbitant prices are requested. In addition, scalping can always be reported at the point of contact and, of course, the Economic Inspectorate will be careful. If there are many reports, many complaints, we will certainly investigate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, first of all, reports were made through the Economic Inspectorate. I also hear that you are pointing to another phenomenon: these fake online shops that offer products, sometimes cheaper, sometimes at market prices, but never deliver. Of course, there is theft on consumers. I also understand that, in relation to the particular problem I raised in my question, there is no targeted investigation into the scalping phenomenon, in any case, and there has been no other report than that of the Primark de Charleroi. It's obviously quite reassuring. I understand you when you talk about freedom between sellers and buyers, and you remind us that it is therefore up to consumers to be vigilant. This is a matter of common sense. However, if the phenomenon were to spread, consumers should be alerted to be vigilant at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, a recent Test-Achats survey has shown that 92% of citizens feel it is important, if not very important, to adopt environmentally friendly behaviour while not always knowing how to deal with it as consumers. There is clearly a lack of knowledge and information about green labels for products and services. In fact, 68% of respondents indicated that they had little or no knowledge of the requirements for the use of this type of ecolabel. Fifty-seven per cent of consumers are perplexed and often assume that these sustainable labels are just a marketing strategy and 43 per cent have little or no confidence in public authorities to control products, services or advertising. To accelerate the transition to a more environmentally friendly future, any ecolabel must be reliable. This requires a system of pre-approval of labels on the basis of sound criteria. In addition, market surveillance authorities must be able to monitor compliance. So what measures can be taken at national or European level to increase consumer knowledge and confidence and to have more reliable ecolabels?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u77	Mr Prévot, green labels are very important to me and I support them. A conservative estimate indicates that there are around 450 sustainability labels worldwide. One of the best known in Belgium is Ecoscore. Of the 32 green labels on the market, only the European Ecolabel has a European regulatory basis. The European Ecolabel "European Ecolabel" is a voluntary environmental labelling system in accordance with ISO 14024. It was established in 1992 by Council Regulation 880/92 of 23 March 1992 on a Community eco-labelling scheme. It was revised in 2009 through Regulation 66/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 establishing the EU Ecolabel in order to increase its efficiency and streamline its operation. At the level of Belgium, every year, in order to promote and raise consumer awareness of the European Ecolabel, the SPF Public Health, Safety of the Food Chain and Environment, Division of Chemicals and Products Policy, Service Product Policy and Focal Point of the EU Ecolabel, organises information campaigns. During the last week of September 2021, an online promotional campaign was organized. The same concept as in 2020 was followed, namely a contest on Facebook for which participants had to post a photo of a product bearing the European Ecolabel. At European level, a website informs consumers and businesses about the European Ecolabel. I encourage labels based on scientific criteria open to all brands, controlled by third parties and visibly easy to understand. The aim is to reduce the proliferation of labels and restore consumer confidence in sustainability labels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u78	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I share your vision, in particular the last part of your answer, to avoid the multiplication of labels and to build confidence in a series of them so that they become real referents to which consumers can ultimately trust. I recalled this in my question: there is a real demand from consumers. 92 per cent wish to adopt sustainable behaviour. On the other hand, there is this loss of confidence and membership in a whole series of ecolabels and in particular in the control of them. Things have been done, and done well. Actions have been taken at both European and Belgian level. You also recalled the awareness campaigns that were carried out, including the one of September 2021, with in addition to campaigns that are more consistent with the new modes of information with this contest on Facebook. All this is very good, but I think that we will have to be vigilant and that we will have to keep hitting the nail to restore the confidence of the citizens because, like you, I believe in these ecolabels. I believe that this is one of the ways in which we can meet this great environmental challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u79	Madam Secretary of State,
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u80	Mr Prévot, first of all, I would like to inform you that the subject of your question is not within my competence. Nevertheless, I have obtained the necessary information. According to FEBELFIN, 14 crimes of cash were committed in 2020, all financial institutions combined. These figures also include attempts that have not led to any looting. In addition, the amounts are not known. Only two offences were committed in 2021, a decrease of 85% from the previous year. None of them have been successful. According to FEBELFIN, the banks would have taken the necessary security measures to avoid such incidents. FEBELFIN is regularly consulted on this subject. It found that the institutions concerned had taken the necessary security measures and had been independently audited. In addition, the phenomenon is of limited magnitude and has decreased sharply. For the time being, no further action is envisaged. The banking sector claims that the losses are never endorsed by consumers, but always by the institution concerned. For all purposes, I would like to refer you to my colleagues in the interior and finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u81	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. If I asked you the question, it was because I had seen that the phenomenon had developed in France in particular, with quite large amounts subtilized in 2021. In any case, I am glad to hear that only fourteen offences were committed in 2020 and that this figure includes the aborted offences, even if there is no indication of the amount of money that could have been subdued. The encouraging figure is that of these two attempts in 2021, both of which were aborted, proof that if there were perhaps obsolete operating systems, since obviously ticket distributors operated under Windows XP (operating system released in 2001). Banking agencies have taken the necessary steps. That's quite reassuring. I thank you and am very pleased with this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u82	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, allow me first of all to express my best wishes to you. Madam Secretary of State, the Federal Energy Ombudsman is investigating dozens of complaints against the energy supplier Eneco. This supplier would have prompted customers to sign more expensive contracts. Several customer testimonies refer to fixed-price contracts that are transformed into variable-price contracts, while no demand was made for such contracts. Eneco defends himself by speaking of a human error. In every complaint that comes to the mediator, the tariffs are fixed and date from before the explosive rise in gas and electricity prices. Funny coincidences or human mistakes! They're all in the same direction! A few days ago in the press, one could read that a million Belgians postponed payment of their gas and electricity bills because they did not get out financially. Meanwhile, multinationals take advantage of price increases to get even more sugar by changing their customers' contracts, without their agreement and without preventing them. A few months ago, it was Mega. Today is Eneco's turn! The Ombudsman indicates illegal practices in the head of Eneco concerning the complaints he receives. I quote: "No request for consent or termination of an indefinite contract without respecting the guarantee contained in the contract and guaranteed by law." Madam Secretary of State, what are you planning to protect consumers from these unscrupulous businesses? Are you considering fines for companies acting illegally, as the Ombudsman pointed out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u83	Mr D'Amico, given the current context of rising energy prices, we remain particularly careful to ensure that consumers are protected from unfair commercial practices. Electricity and gas suppliers are subject to permanent monitoring by the Economic Inspectorate. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate, like you, has come to know of various signals which prompt it to open an investigation against several suppliers with suspicious business practices. In the event of a serious offence, the Economic Inspectorate will issue a warning or a report against the offender(s), with a proposal for a transaction or direct delivery to the King's prosecutor. Sanctions are already provided for in the prohibited commercial practices referred to in articles 93 to 103 of Book VI of the Code of Economic Law. These penalties provide for criminal fines ranging from 26 to 25 000 euros, to be multiplied by the additional decimes. It is not up to me to consider them, but to the Director General of the Economic Inspectorate, the King's Prosecutor or a judge, depending on the follow-up that will be given to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, the warnings are not enough; sanctions are not always enough, as we see with Mega, which is the subject of my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u85	Madam Secretary of State, just before the holidays, the CREG referred to "deliberate tromperies" in the head of the Mega company. This is not the first time that we have mentioned the case of this undertaking and its practices in this committee. The CREG speaks of "a lack of transparency that even tends to deliberately deceive the consumer". A few months earlier, the Economic Inspectorate had opened a second investigation into Mega's practices and Test-Achats filed a complaint against the company. As a reminder, she had received a fine of 100,000 euros at the beginning of 2021 after the first investigation. In a year, we've seen a lot of signals about Mega that should alert you as Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. Madam Secretary of State, what are the conclusions of the second survey by the Economic Inspectorate concerning Mega? What penalties do you foresee if a fault is recognised by the company? Will they be more severe given recidivism? What will be the repairs for blurred people?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u86	Mr D'Amico, the Economic Inspectorate constantly monitors the business practices of the various electricity and gas suppliers. As far as the supplier you are quoting is concerned, the Economic Inspectorate's investigation is still under way. In the event of a serious offence, a new report will be drawn up with a proposal for a transition or direct transmission to the King's prosecutor. Depending on the outcome of this report, it will be up to the Director General of the Economic Inspectorate, the King's Prosecutor or a judge to determine the importance of the sanction. The Economic Inspectorate does not intervene in the resolution of individual cases. Consumers who have suffered possible harm as a result of a commercial practice may always file an injured person's statement with the Crown Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-12-definitief-55-commissie-ic651x.u87	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I am waiting for the results of the investigation and I hope that the decision will be good.
