ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u1	Minister, over the past several years, interest in digital assets has been growing. In 2021, according to the information provided, investments in cryptoactives increased by 880 per cent worldwide. The total capitalisation of the cryptocurrency market is estimated at over EUR 1,700 billion. In Belgium, 2.4% of the population owns them, which puts us in 43rd place in terms of percentage of population by having them. The European Commission has recently published a proposal for a regulation on cryptoactive markets. However, this project does not currently contain any reference to the taxation of cryptoactives. What is the tax on cryptoactives in Belgium? In this regard, does the tax administration have any tools to verify users' assets with certainty? In the absence of a European transposition in this area, does Belgium plan to legislate and regulate the taxation of cryptoactives? With regard to the fight against money laundering, while it is true that the current legislation applies to providers of virtual currency and legal currency exchange services and to providers of preservation portfolio services, many companies located abroad do not. In 2021, money received by illicit addresses even increased globally. Indeed, while in 2017, the total amounted to $4.6 billion and $11.7 billion in 2019, it rose to $14 billion in 2021. Is there information on money laundering related to cryptoactives in Belgium? What means are in place to effectively combat this phenomenon? Has the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF), as far as you are aware, ever received any information on this subject? Does it have any indications that money laundering would be linked to virtual assets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u2	Colleagues, the government supports the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism by giving equal attention to prevention and repression. Your questions concern the preventive approach included in the law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash - the so-called anti-money laundering law. This provides that subject entities such as the bpost bank are responsible for compliance, including the knowledge your customer principle. Mrs Cornet's question on the trade in works of art underlines the international nature of the fight against money laundering. It is from this international context - in particular anti-money laundering guidelines and international standards - that the BNB, as supervisory authority, imposes guidance on financial institutions. To answer your specific question, please refer to the circular of 9 March 2021 concerning the periodic questionnaire, which contains the information requested. In this international fight, preventive warning and rapid detection of risks are extremely important. The annual report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF) points out that fraudsters and criminals have very quickly anticipated the pandemic and the health crisis. Thanks to the effectiveness of the current system, the CTIF could already, at the beginning of April 2020, foresee the short-term consequences of the health crisis, mainly the fraudulent trade in protective equipment and counterfeit medicines, then the unemployment benefits or the coronary premiums unduly paid. On the basis of the legislation and circulars issued by the respective supervisory authorities, each financial institution is responsible for meeting its own compliance obligations, which is likely the basis of the questionnaire to which you refer. Mrs Cornet, since the entry into force of the Law of 20 July 2020 on various provisions relating to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash, certain natural or legal persons - who are either intermediaries in the trade in works of art or owners or managers of warehouses specifically offering a service for the storage of works of art - are subject to the anti-money laundering law under specific conditions. Such persons are therefore also required to report suspicious transactions to the TIFC for which they have suspicions or reasonable grounds to believe that they are related to money laundering or the financing of terrorism. While the National Bank of Belgium monitors financial institutions, the FPS Finance, as supervisory authority, monitors compliance with the anti-money laundering law. When the anti-money laundering law was extended to the art sector, cooperation between all the services involved in preventing and combating money laundering from works of art could be greatly improved. A similar development is expected regarding virtual currency exchange platforms, since both the law and the implementing order will come into force this month. This does not mean, however, that CTIF has not forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office files relating to virtual currencies. These cases were opened on the basis of reports from credit institutions or foreign contact points, in France, Germany or the Netherlands, with which CTIF actively cooperates. With respect to income tax, Mr. De Smet, revenues and transactions in cryptocurrency are taxable under the existing tax framework. The compulsory registration of providers of preservation portfolio services and virtual currency-related services is an additional parameter allowing my administration to carry out its main task regarding the correct reporting of income. In order to provide greater security for citizens and entrepreneurs, my administration has set up a cross-cutting working group to study the issue from different angles, with a view to making proposals for concrete texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u3	Madam Chair, I simply thank the minister for his response. We'll analyze it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u4	I would also like to thank the Minister for his very precise response, which shows the agility of the services and their ability to anticipate all new ways of laundering, depending on the events. I will also be an attentive observer of the answers that have been given to my colleagues to continue on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u5	Minister, I am displeased with the fact that the various aspects of the energy deal are being discussed here and should be dealt with in a single debate. I therefore hope that all the questions will be answered. The disadvantage of such a topical debate is, of course, that some things cannot be dealt with. The topics are diverse, but I will ask my most relevant questions. The federal nuclear cabinet did not agree on the reduction of the energy bill until after weeks of negotiations. The Ministers for Finance and Energy have drawn up a number of proposals for this purpose. The energy deal also includes a temporary VAT measure, with the aim of gaining time until a detailed solution can be proposed that will apply until at least the end of this year. The Minister for Finance would put two proposals on the table for this solution. On the one hand, it is a mechanism that reduces VAT on gas and electricity for households to 6% when wholesale prices exceed a certain threshold. Can you confirm that, Minister? Where would this threshold be? Maybe it should be EUR 45 per MWh, as in Spain? On the other hand, there is a system whereby VAT is simply increased to 6%, but its cost to the State cash is offset by higher excise duties. Perhaps that option will be chosen. Can the Minister confirm that? Will self-employed and small entrepreneurs suffer as they can deduct VAT but not excise duties? In November 2021, the Minister of Finance also promised to tackle significantly increased prices for diesel and petrol with a temporary reintroduction of the reverse click system. I have already asked the Minister about this at the last plenary session, but I would like to ask a few more questions. In the meantime, is there any news about this? You said that the proposal is still on the table. In the VRT journal, energy specialist Luc Pauwels thoroughly analysed the energy bill. For an average Flemish family, the cost of electricity and gas increased from 826 euros in January 2021 to over 3600 euros in January 2022. This is an increase of more than EUR 2800, more than a fourfold increase. You wrote on your web page on 12 October 2021: "We also provide long-term structural solutions by making the energy bill simpler. For example, the federal share of the energy bill is no longer increasing, which should yield a profit of 30 euros for those who have a contract for electricity and gas next year." However, Luc Pauwels' VRT analysis shows that federal excise duties increased from around 90 euros in 2021 to almost 100 euros in 2022. This is an increase of almost €10 compared to January 2021. What is your response to the findings of the VRT? Can you confirm or disprove the VRT analysis? What exactly went wrong? You advocated a temporary reduction of VAT on electricity and gas. According to critics, that would be a gap in the budget. However, the VRT analysis showed that the average VAT revenue for the federal budget increased from EUR 334 to EUR 929 in 2022. That is EUR 600 more than in January 2021. With current prices, which have more than quadrupled, a reduction in VAT on gas and electricity would still bring the federal budget EUR 50 extra. What is your response to the findings of the VRT? Can you confirm or disprove the VRT analysis? How high are the total monthly additional revenue from VAT and excise duties on gas and electricity for the federal budget of January 2022 compared to January 2021? In the meantime, I have received a written reply from you, Minister, which shows that net VAT receipts on energy products increased by EUR 2 billion in 2021. That is a remarkable figure. I also asked for monthly reductions from a VAT reduction of 21% to 6% on electricity and gas. We have tabled a legislative proposal in Parliament on this matter. That was calculated by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors set the cost of a tax reduction on gas and electricity at EUR 670 million to EUR 1 billion. This means an additional EUR 2 billion in energy revenues and a maximum of EUR 1 billion in expenditure through a reduction in VAT on electricity and gas. This actually means that, in addition to a permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and gas, we also have a budgetary margin of at least EUR 1 billion to reduce the price at the pump. Mr. Secretary, I see you shaking your head in denial. Are you following my reasoning? If not, why? If you want to deliver on the promise of October to give back all the more revenue, then you should return the EUR 2 billion, both in the price at the pump and in the energy bill. Then we do not yet have the surplus profits of the producers. Yesterday, Engie published the profit figures, showing that Engie made an extra 1 billion euros in Belgium. We're not talking about the wind farms at sea. The analysis of the VRT also shows that for the first time in decades the federal share of the electricity bill has grown larger than the Flemish share. This leads the VRT to the conclusion that the reform of federal levies and rates of excise duty has not led to much progress, quite the contrary. Strangely enough, the reformed excise duties are also responsible for an increase in prices compared to January last year. Minister, what is your response to the VRT's conclusion? Can you confirm or disprove them? People heat in various ways, not only with gas but also with electricity, fuel oil, propane in bulk and lamp petroleum, whose prices have also increased sharply. One has to be honest, the 'cheque' of 100 euros will not, however, be enough to cover that increased cost. The Belgian Federation of Fuel Dealers (Brafco) requests that the reverse fuel cliquet system be re-established, including for domestic heating fuels, so that the government cancels part of the excise duty increase when the fuel price exceeds a certain threshold. According to Brafco, the reverse cliquet system is the easiest to implement. Brafco also reminds the minister that this was on the table at the end of last year. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to put the proposal of reverse cliquet system also on the government table for fuel oil, propane in bulk and lamp oil? What will the Minister do to soften the bill for families heating with these fuels? Moreover, many schools and rest homes also heat with fuel oil. How can the invoice for these settings be softened? Furthermore, the federal government reached an energy agreement. It is a combination of interventions from 1 March. The Minister of Finance defended the energy agreement, despite the criticism. However, it will be particularly difficult for energy suppliers to apply a VAT reduction to electricity by 1 March. That's what Febeg, the federation of Belgian energy companies, says. When does this temporary VAT reduction start, in March or April? In the VTM news, the Prime Minister mentioned that a credit note is being worked on for the one-off heating premium granted per electricity connection. Is that right? Is it actually reimbursed or is it settled? When will citizens receive this credit note, in March or April? When will citizens receive the amount of EUR 100 effectively in their accounts? This is important, for example, for owners of solar panels, who have a zero invoice. If the account is not returned, the credit note will remain open for days or months, because there is no real consumption with them. This needs to be clarified. Is this permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and gas........................................................................................................... There is no agreement yet on the announced smart VAT reduction that finance and energy ministers are working on. What's the status of that? When should there be an agreement on this? What's this gonna do? When will it enter into force? An opinion from the Council of State states that the temporary VAT reduction may discriminate against residents of retirement homes. It is quoted in Latest News as follows: "As it must be assumed that these people can equally be financially affected by higher energy prices, it is not clear why a reduction in the VAT rate is not also provided for customers who live in natural persons. In any case, the difference in treatment will have to be justified in the light of the principle of constitutional equality." What will the Minister do to ease the energy bill of the rest home residents? According to the Minister's cabinet, it is not technically possible to apply the VAT reduction that would apply to private contracts to professional contracts, such as those of the residential care centres. According to the Minister's spokesman, they are composed differently, including in the field of excise duties and VAT. Moreover, residents do not pay the rising energy prices one by one. The Minister did provide a good explanation of the difference as asked by the Van State Council, the cabinet said. Do not ignoring the principle of equality and the comments of the Council of State make the VAT reduction subject to destruction by the Constitutional Court? I understand that the association representing the rest homes says that they will go to the Constitutional Court. Isn't that a huge risk to the scheme as a whole? The temporary VAT reduction will apply only to families, i.e. to residential connections. As already mentioned, this measure does not apply to schools, but unlike companies, schools cannot recover their VAT. With regard to the 100 euro heating cheques, residents of apartments with one connection are only entitled to one check, while there are several people living there. Schools saw their heating costs rise this winter because they had to constantly ventilate through the corona measures. The rising energy bill forces the schools to save on the educational function. After Community education, the Catholic Education of Flanders also calls on the government to intervene. Education is, of course, a responsibility of the Flemish government, but what can the federal government do to mitigate the school's energy bill? In older apartment buildings there is often only one connection, one EAN number. In addition, there are counters on the basis of which the syndicus distributes the invoice among different residents. So if you live in an apartment building with about ten residents, you will receive only one tenth of the government's cheque, i.e. 10 euros. What can the federal government do to soften the energy bill of these apartment residents? This brings me to my last question, in particular on the advance electricity bill of March 2022 at 21%. The VAT reduction from 21% to 6% would apply from 1 March to 30 June 2022. However, electricity suppliers cannot simply press a button and adapt their systems immediately. As a result, the consumer will not see the VAT reduction from 21% to 6% on the advance invoice of that month. The temporary VAT reduction will therefore not apply to the advances until April 2022. Can the Minister confirm that citizens will still be billed at 21% in March 2022? I think a lot of citizens are looking forward to that answer. Thank you in advance for the answer to these many questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u6	Like you, Mr Vermeersch, I regret that many questions were grouped together. This always involves the risk of not answering all the questions. However, eight questions on energy come from you, so you created the topical debate yourself. Anyway, they're all good questions. I have not tabled a question since the agreement on energy was reached, for the simple reason that the question we had tabled when there was no agreement was actually very far-sighted. Unlike all parties of both majority and opposition who have argued for a reduction in VAT, we have said from the outset that a reduction in VAT is very problematic for several reasons. We have warned against this. All these questions are also included in my oral question. We are now being joined by the Council of State. That is why we had tabled our own legislative proposal to work through the taxation of persons and thus to avoid all the problems, inequalities and discriminations that are now emerging. I'm going to list those questions anyway. Has the European Commission in the past had any objections to the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6% for electricity? If so, what objections were they? Have you already tested the smart VAT reduction in the VAT Committee? If so, what is the Committee's position? Will the reduced rate also apply to residential care centres, irrespective of the legal form of the operator? I have already received an answer from the Council of State, but I would like to hear it again. Are co-owners' associations of a building not exclusively used for residential purposes also eligible? Does the VAT Committee and the European Commission agree that a different VAT rate is applied to taxable persons and the VAT deduction differs according to the nature of the energy contract? With regard to all the residents of apartments, service flats and residential care centres who are in danger of standing here in the cold, are you prepared to comment on the comments made by the Council of State, which we also formulated a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u7	Madam Chair, Minister, here are many grouped questions, which gives you the advantage of not answering questions that would bother you a little bit. My first question concerns the 6% VAT rate on all heating energy. While bills have been exploding for several months, the government has decided to reduce VAT from 21 % to 6 % on electricity only and only for four months. But this is the gas bill, the amount of which explodes the most, even if electricity also increases. Heating oil increases less than gas but more than electricity. The decision not to reduce the VAT on gas is justified by the Government's intention not to discriminate against those who heat oil because Europe does not allow a reduction in the VAT on fuel oil. This argument is not very credible because there are already many differences in VAT rates between the different heating energies: 6% on wood, 12% on coal, 6% or 21% on electricity depending on the period and 21% on gas and heating oil. It is the price of gas that increases the most. If the government really wants to avoid discrimination, then it is necessary to apply an identical VAT rate on all heating energies. Invoking the European ban is a little short because a European directive can be amended. It is a matter of political will. Some countries have already obtained exceptions. Cyprus, for example, may apply reduced rates on liquefied petroleum gas cylinders. Moreover, during the banking crisis, there was no hesitation in failing to comply with European rules to save banks. And I would even say that, at the moment, Vivaldi is facing the European Commission on the issue of the Excess Profit Rules aimed at maintaining an aberrant advantage to some 40 multinationals. If we have to challenge the European Commission, it seems to me that it is more useful to challenge it on a social issue such as rising energy prices. Minister, do you intend to align the VAT rate with all heating energy at 6%? If the European VAT Directive prevents the reduction of VAT on certain energy sources, will you lead the debate at European level to change this European regulation? In the meantime, do you intend to reduce the VAT rate in Belgium directly, without waiting for European changes? My second question relates more specifically to the temporary nature of the reduction in VAT on electricity and the possible links with wage indexation. Some economists have recently argued in the press that the temporary reduction in VAT on electricity would delay the indexation of wages by six months. The decline in VAT and the energy cheque would not, in their view, compensate for the loss of wages caused by this shift in indexation. After analysing these studies, it is thought that certain assumptions and modalities of these studies are quite critical, but they nevertheless point to a real problem: the temporary nature of the reduced VAT. Indeed, if the negative impact of a reduction in VAT on wage indexation is to be offset, two elements are essential: on the one hand, this reduction in VAT must not be temporary but permanent and, on the other hand, this reduction in VAT must be extended to other energy products such as gas. As I said earlier, gas is the energy whose price has risen the most. Its real cost weighs twice as much as electricity in the index basket. The impact on the index is therefore less important, while the impact of a decline in VAT on households would be considerable. I would also point out that these energy products are essential goods, which in itself already justifies the application of a VAT reduced to 6 % as for water, food or medicines. Are you going to make the VAT reduction permanent at 6%? Will you also reduce VAT on gas and other heating energy? I now turn to my third question, which is specifically concerned with fuel. It's also an energy matter, but we're in another registry. Since November 2021, you have announced that a text is on the table to apply the inverted click when maximum fuel prices reach 1.75 euro per litre. On 10 February, in plenary, you repeated again that an inverted ratchet system will certainly put a brake on rising prices. You have indicated that discussions are under way within the government on this issue. On Saturday 12 February, the price of petrol reached a new record: 1,799 euro per litre of petrol 95. Diesel has exceeded 1.80 euros per litre - it is almost 1.84 euros per litre. This outbreak is simply untenable for people. There's really a social emergency. Minister, are you finally going to implement this inverted click that you've been announcing for months? Have discussions within the government evolved since your last answer to questions on this subject? What are the blocking elements that prevent you from succeeding? Is this government aware of the social emergency? Will this issue be completed in the coming days or should something be expected for the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u8	Colleagues, I realize there are a lot of questions. Since this has become a mini-debate, it is important that I put all the questions together in one answer. Three measures have been taken in the energy agreement. Firstly, there will be an extension of the social tariff for the second quarter of 20022. Secondly, VAT on electricity is reduced to 6%. Thirdly, each household receives a heating premium of EUR 100 via the electricity bill. I will also work with the Minister for Energy, Tine Van der Straeten, on a thorough reform of excise duties. I cannot anticipate the details of this reform. Nor can I prejudge a possible permanent reduction of VAT on electricity and gas. This could be part of a thorough reform of excise duties. A new reduced rate for other energy carriers is not currently on the table. The temporary VAT reduction will apply from 1 March 2022 until 30 June 2022 for the supply of electricity to customers-natural persons with a residential contract. In order to address the operational difficulties of electricity suppliers, the advances invoiced or charged in March will still indicate the normal rate, but will be corrected through the final settlement, applying the reduced VAT rate to electricity consumed from 1 March to 30 June 2022. In the past, the European Commission commented on the internal coherence of the wording of the then text on the reduced VAT rate of 6% for electricity supply. However, these comments did not raise any fundamental concerns, since the measure in question was applied for its full duration without Belgium being in default for its application by the European Commission services. Moreover, the VAT Committee has already been informed of the tariff favor measure. The reduced VAT rate will be applied to the supply under the electricity contract for which no company number has been communicated by the customer-natural person at the time of conclusion. The status of the customer, under which he made himself known to the supplier at the time the contract was concluded, will therefore determine whether or not the person concerned is entitled to that reduced VAT rate. In this way, the reduced VAT rate will be applied to customers-natural persons who have concluded contracts that are generally referred to as residential or non-professional contracts. This approach also appears to be the only way in which the sector can grant short-term VAT reductions via the electricity bill to households. Moreover, this scheme is broadly identical to the scheme for the temporary reduction of VAT on electricity, which ran from 1 April 2014 to 31 August 2015. As the VAT reduction applies only under the abovementioned conditions, as in the case of legal persons such as residential care centres, co-owners' associations or schools, it will indeed be excluded from specific measures. However, these institutions have a stronger negotiating position as a result of a higher volume of reductions and, in any case, under a professional contract, they enjoy better contractual conditions but also lower excise duties per kilowatt hour. The heating premium applies to everyone and will be granted through the electricity bill. The premium also applies to people who heat with fuel oil. However, for the operational implementation of the heating premium, I would refer to the Minister for Energy. The federal government has taken measures for the families, which was a shared concern of all governments. Other levels of policy are responsible for education, rest and nursing homes. They can, of course, also take measures to reduce the energy bill. With regard to the questions about the figures, I can say that the government is initially receiving additional VAT as a result of the increase in energy prices. The increase in VAT revenue on natural gas and electricity for the federal government in 2022 is estimated at around EUR 521 million. That is the total EUR 2.1 billion to which you referred in your question, Mr Vermeersch. The expenditure of the Energy Agreement is offset by the increase in revenue from VAT on electricity and natural gas, the increase in revenue from the repartition contribution, the increase in revenue offshore and the increase in revenue from VAT on fuel oil. The temporary reduction of VAT on electricity from 21% to 6%, starting from March 2022 for a period of four months for residential contracts, will cost around 320 million euro. With regard to the specific questions on the energy bill itself, I can state that the federal taxes on the energy bill in 2021 will be replaced by a special excise duty from 2022 onwards. The amount of the special excise duty in 2022 was fixed in such a way that it produces the same total annual revenue as the federal levies in 2021. The reformed excise duties did not lead to an increase in prices compared to the federal tariff level of the year 2021. Finally, with regard to other measures requested, I can say that there is indeed a political agreement on the tax shift. This is currently before the Council of State for its opinion and will be submitted as soon as possible to the Chamber, in this committee. With regard to the prices of diesel and petrol, I have already put forward a proposal for a reverse cliquet system. There have been no new developments since the previous plenary discussion on this subject. It is a decision that must be made within the government and I do not want to anticipate it. I will also continue to work on structural reforms that will structurally strengthen the purchasing power of our families. This is the best way to protect people from unexpected price increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u9	Thank you, Minister. You gave me a lot of answers, and I'm sure I'll have to listen to you in order to understand a few things. I've also noted a number of cases. I understand from you that the advance invoice of March 2022 will still be charged 21%. This means that the VAT reduction will only apply from April 2022. Citizens will not notice until April 2022. You shake your head in the negative, but in March they will play bank for energy suppliers for the difference of 15% in VAT. I've been listening very carefully. This is only settled at the end of the account. For some customers it may take up to a year before there is a settlement. In the worst case scenario, they will only get the money of that 15% back in March after a year. During that time, the private customer, the residential customer, actually plays the citizen a little bank for the suppliers. As far as the rest homes are concerned, clear comments have been made by the Council of State. In fact, you are telling those customers that they still have professional contracts and that they should therefore draw their own plans. As far as cost is concerned, De Tijd quoted an amount of 250 million euros. You say here that the cost is about EUR 320 million. I would remind you that the Court of Auditors estimated the cost of our proposal to reduce VAT on electricity and gas from EUR 670 million to EUR 1 billion. Minister, I have also asked you about income. By 2021, you have confirmed in writing to me that there is a EUR 2 billion increase in all energy products. In the VRT programme Villa Politica, colleague De Block, MP for Open VLD, referred to the permanent VAT reduction that we proposed as a farm deception, because it would be priceless. The real deception today is, of course, the fact that these many billions of more revenue are being spent in the wells of the purple-green government. As a Flemish interest, we demand that these 2 billion in additional revenue be returned to the population. In the first instance, this must be done for us by a permanent reduction in VAT on electricity and gas, which, according to the Court of Auditors, costs EUR 1 billion. Secondly, there must be a structural reduction in prices, which would amount to a further EUR 1 billion. About the cliquet system, you say that there are no new data. It's been like that for months now. This system has been promised to the people and that promise must be kept. We would like to appeal to you once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u10	Minister, I am not going to go back to the absurd choices to introduce this VAT reduction for electricity, not for natural gas, and to do this from spring onwards. It remains to be seen that many people remain in the cold. Pensioners, self-employed persons and residents of apartment buildings will not be able to enjoy the already limited benefits provided by the government. There is also the risk of destruction by the Constitutional Court, when the Council of State has rightly criticised these discriminations. So we have a right uncertain arrangement that may not survive the summer or the year. I also note that you are not prepared to do anything about it. This is demonstrated by the fact that you did not answer this very specific question. To anyone who finds this VAT reduction the best solution: it is not. The only good solution is a general tax reduction by reducing the corporate tax rate for everyone. It has a quick effect and doesn't leave anyone in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u11	Minister, I take note of your answers. Above all, I take note of the fact that you are deaf to the expectations of the population. For months the population has been crying out for help, that the energy situation of households is catastrophic, but apart from the measures that this government has taken, you are proposing nothing, only provisional or minimalist! For heating energies, there's practically nothing! There are 100 euros planned but you maintain a discrimination between the different rates of VAT. [[Why is the most polluting wood 6%, coal 12%?]] You're not explaining it. You don't explain why you don't apply 6% on basic necessities such as energy, especially with the prices we currently know. Even beyond prices, there is a logic in VAT. Why not apply this logic? As regards the negative effect of temporary VAT on indexation, you do not even answer the question. Let's not talk about car fuel, about the ratchet you've been talking about for months, but you never see the color. The deafness of this government is worrying. However, I would like to go back to this EUR 100 heating premium. What is 100 euros for a household compared to its heating bill? You know that the average consumption for a household that heats up with heating oil is 2,100 litres a year. At the current price, this makes an invoice of nearly 2,000 euros. What does your 100 euros represent on a bill of 2,000 euros? It's nothing! I'm not talking about the gas whose price exploded even more than the heating oil. What are you finally telling us? That the best solution is to play on people's incomes. But what does this government do about people's incomes? You've blocked the wages! You've imposed the wage standard that blocks wages. So don't talk about a solution via revenue because you block them and, for the next IPA, we're even talking about an increase that would be 0%. The 0,4 % imposed by this government because the social partners could not agree and it is understandable that the unions refused - they also demanded a revision of the law on the wage standard - was nothing! I would also remind you that fuels are not included in wage indexation. We even advance 0% for the next two years. So don't come to say that the solution is that. Your government does nothing about the energy bill for products and blocks wages for income. Your assessment is really negative!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u12	Minister, last summer the European Commission proposed a review of the Energy Taxation Directive. It concerns, among other things, excise duties. The focus would change from volume to content. A ranking of fuels would be presented. Such changes have a major impact on the entire economic fabric in Belgium and in particular on a number of specific sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, transport and energy-intensive sectors. Has the government taken a position on the review? If so, what is the position? Has this been communicated to the Council? Were the Länder involved in the formulation of the position or will it be? Finally, how do you assess the impact of the proposal on Belgian competitiveness?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u13	Madam President, Minister, on Monday 31 January 2022, the European Court of Auditors published an analysis paper "Energy taxation, carbon pricing and energy subsidies", which presents a number of problematic elements in relation to the alignment between energy taxation and the climate objectives of European Union policy. Minister, can we get your feedback on this document? In June 2021, the European Energy Tax Directive was revised, resulting in a proposal for measures under the Fit for 55 package. This proposal aims in particular to tax fuels according to their energy content and environmental performance – and not according to their volume – and to simplify the categorisation of products for taxation, as well as to remove exemptions for certain heating products and the prohibition of the total exemption from EU taxation of fossil fuels used in intra-EU air transport, maritime transport and fisheries. Can we get information on the progress of the negotiations on this subject, as well as on the planned timetable? Can we have your point of view on the impact these measures could have on the cost of energy, given the period of price fluctuation that we know and should always experience in the coming months? In this regard, the impact assessment mentioned in the proposal indicates that increased taxation of fossil fuels could have greater consequences for low-income households, particularly with regard to heating. In response to this problem, there would be the possibility of recycling revenue for the ecological transition – financing investments in low-carbon and energy-efficient goods and equipment or through lump-sum transfers. Can we also get more information on the prospects of this possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u14	Minister, it is clear that the gas crisis is having an ever greater impact, including on the tax reform which has been announced a long time ago and on the agreement on excise duties. I will not repeat everything Mr Senesael said about the Fit for 55 legislative package, which includes the revision of the Energy Taxation Directive. The European Commission wants to radically change the way energy products are taxed. The load would be based on the energy content rather than on the volume. The European Commission also wants to use a ranking where fossil fuels would be most taxed and electricity the least. There would also be a minimum rate for all sectors. In fiscal matters, however, unanimity is needed between all the Member States of the European Union. So Belgium too will have to take a decision on this. What is the government's position on this? How does that fit in with your major fiscal reform, which the Federal Minister of Climate has always said would include fiscally stimulated phasing out of fossil fuels? What impact could this have on the so-called control button, in particular the flexible excise mechanism, as the Federal Minister of Energy has always communicated that this could also be an instrument for making a tax shift from electricity to fossil fuels via the invoice? Do you think that is appropriate given the particularly high gas price, which might also last during spring and summer 2022, and the fact that 70% of Flemish people heat with gas? I don't think so, but you'll certainly answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report contains interesting analyses of the various mechanisms in place in the field of energy taxation. On the basis of the data collected, the European Court of Auditors makes observations. The report demonstrates why a revision of the Energy Taxation Directive is important. The European Commission's proposal to revise the Energy Taxation Directive is currently under discussion at Council level. It is therefore too early to talk about a specific timetable. The Council's work will be monitored at Belgian level in an ad hoc working group chaired by the FPS Finance, in which all interested parties, including the Regions, are represented. The working group examines the issues from a technical perspective. If, in view of the political sensitivity of an issue, a member of the working group considers that it exceeds the competence of the group, he or she may raise the issue with the political bodies. The coordination of the Belgian position falls within the competence of the Foreign Affairs Office, in particular the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination. The proposed Directive aims to increase the minimum rates of excise duty in order to make them more binding. At the moment they are at such a low level that they no longer reflect reality. The increase in minimum rates will make it possible to restore equal treatment between Member States in this area. Another objective of the proposed EU Directive is to remove obsolete exemptions and incentives for the use of fossil fuels. Adjustments to the exemptions may have an impact on competitiveness. It is therefore important that this is done within a European framework, so that a level playing field in Europe is guaranteed. The application of the minimum rates provided for in the proposed revision of the Energy Taxation Directive will affect products with low taxes or exemptions. For fuels, these include aviation kerosene, LPG, natural gas and professional diesel. For products already taxed above the minimum level, there will be no impact. However, the Directive will not enter into force in the short term. A transitional period is foreseen for certain energy carriers. This will therefore be very different from the very sharp increase in energy prices that Belgium is currently experiencing due to fluctuations in the world market. When a review of energy taxes leads to higher revenues for the State, it is also important to return those revenues. Particular attention should be paid to the taxpayers most affected by the measure. I have commissioned a study on the greening of our taxation, which should contribute to the achievement of the climate objectives which Belgium has endorsed. The study also looks at the impact on households and income actors. This task is part of the broader fiscal reform that we are currently preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that there will be a study on the impact of greening taxation. That is interesting and I hope that we will be able to see and discuss it in Parliament. I share the fears of some here that we will face a direct or indirect increase in consumer prices. That's actually the bottomline of the whole story and that's all there is to it. We must be very vigilant and I hope that every step of the way you will inform us about the talks at European level and in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u17	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. This brings elements of clarification to three important pitfalls. Firstly, in the evaluation of the Energy Taxation Directive, the Commission has identified gaps in the legislation on minimum taxation. The Commission's legislative proposals in the adjustment package to Objective 55 aim, inter alia, to align this energy taxation with energy content and to extend the EU emissions quota system to more sectors. Secondly, the European Court of Auditors concludes that the European Union's policies on energy taxation are not in line with its climate objectives. You responded to that pitfall. Finally, within the framework of the Green Pact for Europe, a strategy aimed at making the European Union climate neutral by 2050, the Commission plans to align energy taxation with climate objectives. Again, you have provided the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You are becoming somewhat our hope in frightened days in the current vivaldi government. Implicitly you confirm that our concern, which we share with Mr Donné, is justified. You report that you have conducted a study on the greening of taxation, which will also examine the potential impact on households. You did not mention it, but Mrs Khattabi is talking about the climate bonus and the refund of allowances, which would be passed on to the consumer. At least it's a work in progress. We will follow the dossier very closely in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I am kicking in an open door when I say that the use of crypto coins, such as Bitcoin, is increasing. Not only are they increasing in numbers, but also the market capital they represent is increasing. This is, in itself, an interesting technological evolution which offers many possibilities, but at the same time we must not be blind to the anonymity that may be associated with it, and therefore to its criminal use. That's why crypto coins also have their place in the anti-money laundering law. Just last month, we approved some of this in connection with the monitoring of ATMs... First of all, there are the cryptovouchers. These are vouchers that one can purchase anonymously and then, with the code stated on them, can exchange them for crypto coins. This is a technique that is gradually advancing in many countries, but also in our country. Is this contrary to current anti-money laundering legislation, or is there any need for additional initiatives to curb this? Closely connected to crypto coins, his foreign bank accounts. We all know foreign bank accounts need to be reported. What about foreign online marketplaces, whether or not with intermediaries, where cryptowallets can be held? These are not mentioned in the KB and are also not linked to IBAN-numbers because they were not previously mentioned. The question therefore arises as to whether the so-called crypto accounts should also be mentioned. If not, would it not be advisable to introduce that obligation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u20	Madam President, I do not know whether my question should be included in this mini-debate. It's not about money laundering or the 2% of the cryptoactivity that happens by criminals. My question concerns the 98% others, who are legally engaged in crypto, both companies and individuals. There is no political focus on that, unfortunately. At present, the tax treatment of everything around crypto must be included in the general provisions. One has to check whether it is a normal management of private property, in which case it is exempt, if not a diverse income. If it is done in a truly professional way, it is the qualification of professional income. In case of crypto that often leads to problems and uncertainties. In many countries tax legislation has been specifically designed for this purpose, for example in the Netherlands. This is not necessarily always legislation which exempts or taxes very favourably, but which provides legal certainty and clarity and transparency. This is more difficult in Belgium. Minister, how do you view the introduction in Belgium of a more coherent and specific fiscal regulatory framework for crypto revenues? How would you organize that framework? Could this possibly also be part of the major fiscal reform plans that you would like to present in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u21	Mr Minister, I would like to join this topical debate because it is an issue which, as colleagues have said, is growing extremely strong. As you may also know, Minister, we have hearings in the Science and Technology Advisory Committee, which I am pleased to chair. Several colleagues also sit there. Colleagues Verduyckt and Donné have come several times. We are at more than twenty hearings of experts and experts on cryptocurrency. A whole series of extremely important societal issues are present in cryptocurrency. I will take advantage of the exchange to ask you questions about the tax side and the fight against money laundering. Perhaps in general, our vision is that cryptocurrencies can be of interest and trigger a whole series of opportunities because they come out of the traditional financial system and allow individuals, in the framework of associative or cooperative projects, to be able, in particular via blockchain but also via cryptocurrencies, to exchange and carry out transactions more easily. There are positive points, but there are also, of course, dangers, such as money laundering via anonymity or pseudonym. Without going into all these enormous issues, including the environmental issue we are discussing in the opinion committee, I will address two specific points. The first concerns the tax framework, which was the subject of many questions during the hearings. What about the tax treatment of cryptocurrency, which is now a speculative product for many? Sometimes strong gains are generated. What about this tax framework? I'm thinking about tax returns. Is it considered another financial asset? The second point concerns minors. More and more advertisements are being made to attract minors. They can, with two clicks on a smartphone today, buy bitcoins. Is there a specific protection of minors as one can have for actions, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Is that also the case? We had a doubt when we looked at the legislation. Finally, what is the centre of expertise within your administration, or within the institutions that exist in this country, that could handle all the questions that will arise about cryptocurrency? We feel very well that, on the part of citizens, institutions or intermediaries, the questions on this subject rise strongly in power. It is important that we have a dedicated centre of expertise within your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u22	Madam President, this is a very interesting and interesting subject. I regret that Mr Donné says there is little focus on it, because, as Mr Vanden Burre says, we have been holding hearings on it in Parliament for several months. The reference to the Netherlands is correct because some legislation has already been adopted there. The director of the National Bank in the Netherlands said: get rid of it! The opinions are very divided. I have listened to opponents and opponents in the advisory committee, and almost everyone feels that there should be more regulation. On the one hand, because of practices that we do not want, and on the other hand because of the fiscal aspect. Even the proponents today argue with their crypto coins that they cannot go to the traditional banks, and that is a problem. The proponents are also aware that the enormous speculative nature, especially in terms of communication to young people, as Mr Vanden Burre said, who is given the impression that this is the new profit model, can be a problem. It is also interesting that Europe has made itself heard and wants to make legislation in this area. Minister, I would like to hear your views on this matter. How do you view the announcement from Europe, where we are proposing rather strict legislation today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u23	Chairperson: Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I would like to join the previous speakers, particularly Mr Kris Verduyckt, who says that the protection of something completely new and still unregulated must be a major concern. I do not deny that I still have some doubts about the opportunities, especially as chairman of the Energy Committee, because these are energy-depleting elements. I suspect that crypto coins will be embedded in a new arrangement, in which banks will also play a role. In this sense, initiatives are currently under way at the ECB. Can you explain that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u25	Colleagues, as far as cryptocurrency fraud is concerned, they are actually on the rise in recent years. But awareness-raising is the best way to combat this type of fraud. FSMA and SPF Economy have already issued numerous warnings against this type of fraud. The Act of 1 February 2022 will also allow FSMA to control all Automated Teller Machines (ATM) installed on Belgian territory allowing the exchange of virtual currencies for legal currencies and to prohibit persons subject to the right of a third country to offer services related to virtual assets on Belgian territory. The draft also provides for a criminal sanction for providers of services related to virtual assets, who offer their services without being registered with the FSMA and for third-country law holders who offer services related to virtual assets on Belgian territory as a usual professional activity. Active platforms in Belgium will have to register with FSMA. A royal decree of 8 February 2022 lays down the procedure for registration. Mr Matheï, the checks carried out within the framework of the money laundering legislation of the publishers of vouchers will be taken into account from the date of entry into force of the said legislation. With regard to the question concerning the declaration of an account relating to virtual currency in the personal tax declaration, the foreign account shall be broadly defined as any account of any kind referred to in Article 307 (1) (a) of the same Code with a bank, currency exchange, credit and savings institution established abroad. The explanatory note on the communication of foreign accounts to the central contact point of accounts and financial contracts takes back that broad definition of the concept of 'account of all kinds'. The question of what type of assets is recorded in the foreign account concerned is irrelevant in this respect. Foreign accounts that registered the possession of cryptote goods are also broadly defined in the Fourth AML Directive as a digital display of value that is not issued or guaranteed by a central bank or government, which is not necessarily linked to a legally established currency and which does not have the legal status of currency or money, but which is accepted as a means of exchange by natural or legal persons and which can be transferred, stored and traded electronically. The abovementioned accounts should therefore be included in the personal income tax declaration, in so far as they are held by a bank, currency, credit and savings institution established abroad. Holding cryptocurrency via a cryptolalet, not offered by a bank, exchange, credit or savings institution, is outside any regulation and of course constitutes a special risk. This is one of the reasons why the European Commission is preparing several new legal instruments to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as a new regulation providing for a regulatory and prudential legal framework on markets in cryptoassets. Mr Donné and others, after the European Commission has established a clear regulatory and prudential legal framework, this qualification will enable a coherent and specific fiscal regulatory framework for income and gains from cryptoassets and crypto coins to be developed. For the purposes of the tax treatment, I refer to the answer to question No. 55022895C by Mr Matheï. The legal and factual circumstances in which the transactions take place are decisive and specific to each individual case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u26	Minister, the technology underlying the crypto coins is interesting and can lead to other interesting things, but we must not be blind to money laundering and criminal money. That is why the first part of my question was also about those vouchers, which are really on the rise and are an anonymous way to launder money. I understand from your reply that this will be examined together with the entry into force of the most recent rules. As far as foreign accounts are concerned, which is not necessarily a matter of money laundering, but of clarity for those who own them, I understand that there is still work to be done on the cryptolalets, but that there is a waiting for a European initiative in this regard. I think it is also important to make it clear whether they should be indicated in the future. It remains an important issue in all parliamentary initiatives currently pending and also in the area of awareness-raising. In this respect, it is interesting that the FPS Economy and the FSMA fully incorporate their role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u27	Unfortunately, Minister, I have not heard your answer to Mr Matheï's question, so I do not know whether you have taken a position for the future. I understand that you have explained how you, together with the FPS Finance Department, are currently dealing with crypto coins. I will read your answer again later and perhaps I will ask a question about it later. If there is something that has a major financial and social impact, such as crypto coins, which have been in existence for ten years, but are finally becoming commonplace, then there are three important things that policy makers have to take care of. In addition to negative regulation and a sanctioning policy, positive regulation and education must also be used. Education does not belong to your powers, and I understand that, but as far as this positive regulation is concerned, you refer to the European legislation that is coming, and you want to wait for it before taking a Belgian position. However, it may take a few more years before this MiCA regulation is in place. If we have to wait another two or three years for regulation, I think we will leave both consumers and businesses in the cold for a very long time. If we focus solely on money laundering legislation and crime, there is a risk that banks will, as a precautionary measure, repel, close many accounts, from people who have a very legal crypto portfolio. That is the risk of knocking only on the repressive nail for a few years to come, without at the same time developing a positive regulation, a clear legal framework. However, I would argue that policy work on this side should be done much faster than in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I will ask this question entirely, because it is very important to me. To increase the performance of the FPS Finance, so-called KPIs are developed and rolled out top-down. In this way, every FPS Finance official contributes to a performance-oriented organisation. The governance agreement from 2019 to 2021 puts in front of each AABBI official amounts of €2,099.479 for 2019 and over €750,000 per semester. For the amounts collected per FBI official, amounts of 243,542 euros for 2019 and more than 125,000 euros per semester are foreseen. I think it is logical that tax inspectors responsible for controlling taxable persons should be given a number of checks to be completed as an objective for their assessment. This is due to the nature of their mission. However, when the revenue itself is imposed as a measuring point, the question arises whether the control still aims at the legality of taxation or whether the official concerned himself has a favourable assessment. That is why I have the following questions. First, are KPIs imposed in 2021 at the level of the administrator-general and the administrators of the General Administration at the FPS carrying out fiscal inspections on the number of checks to be obtained and the proceeds from the administrative controls? Secondly, if yes, how many controls and proceeds to be obtained from these controls are the KPIs leading the way? Thirdly, are KPIs also imposed on the number of checks and the proceeds from those checks in 2021 with regard to the individual inspectors responsible for controlling the taxable person? Is it limited to BBI inspectors, as shown by the administrative agreement or is it wider? Fourthly, do you believe that a KPI measuring the amounts returned from the additional attacks does not jeopardise the legality of the audit? If yes, do you think that such a way of working does not encourage tax inspectors to issue sanctions more quickly if their annual assessment depends on their turnover? Fifthly, does the inspectors' wager depend on a favourable annual assessment? Finally, this government has an extremely ambitious budgetary objective in terms of revenue from the fight against fraud. Does this translate into a top-down increase in the KPIs of the relevant mandate holders and their subordinate officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u29	The governance agreement is part of a modern and efficient organizational development and is legally provided for in the Royal Decree of 4 April 2014. The governance agreement 2019-2021, as concluded by the then Minister of Finance, contains follow-up indicators, called KPIs, in the context of efficient and professional management of its objectives, to frame and monitor the strategy. For more general information about this and about the governance agreement, please refer to the FOD BOSA. For example, in this case, governance agreements contain strategic objectives............................................................................................................................................................ In this context, qualitative KPIs have been defined for the various departments, including the general administration of the BBI. Since the subject matter of that core task is operational through controls, there are indicators that take into account the global assessments, the number of files handled and the amounts actually paid. You will find those parameters in the board agreement, as published by my administration. These figures are followed every semester at the level of each board and of the entire BBI. It is not about individual objectives. Nor are they used at the level of inspection services and certainly not to evaluate officials themselves. Thus, the KPIs contribute to the qualitative implementation of the core task and do not constitute a policy instrument for budgetary objectives. Finally, I need to adjust your figures a little bit, in that the target values in the governance plan are indeed EUR 750,000 and EUR 125,000 per trimester respectively, but the other amounts quoted show the performance for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u30	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I remember, therefore, that there are no quantitative KPIs that are imposed on individual tax officials and that need to be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u31	Minister, according to a report by the European Commission on the VAT gap in the European Union, Belgium missed EUR 7.4 billion in VAT revenue in 2019 and deepened the VAT gap between 2018 and 2019, while most Member States managed to narrow the VAT gap over the same period, some countries even jumped at great leaps. Your policy paper says that on 7 December 2021 you would organise an international colloquium on the VAT gap and that the IMF would launch a study on the subject. Both would form the basis for the elaboration of measures in 2022. However, the colloquium was postponed by corona. When do you hope to allow the colloquium to take place? When will the IMF study be published? Do you still intend to await these two matters before you will develop additional measures? During the discussion of your policy paper, you presented the IMF's recommendation on so-called high-worth individuals related to the BBI cell that brings together expertise on complex tax private constructions. However, it was not clear to me to what extent the mandate of that cell corresponds to what the IMF recommends, in particular a focus on controlling the most wealthy Belgians, as their fiscal behaviour has the greatest impact on increasing or reducing the tax gap. Can you confirm that the cell focuses specifically on the control of the high-worth individuals, such as the IMF and OECD recommend? Finally, the IMF also calls for a risk analysis of the informal economy, as such an analysis will clearly demonstrate the importance of an increased fight against the tax gap. Will you carry out such a risk analysis on this basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u32	Mr Vanbesien, the approach of the VAT gap is an important part of my policy, as we will organise the colloquium on this subject. In the meantime, however, this has been postponed by the corona measures and is now scheduled for 15 March 2022. Of course, we are not waiting for this colloquium to start working with the IMF. The working group with Belgian representatives was identified. The study should be completed this year. The aim is to gain insight into the size of the VAT gap and identify the driving factors, driving factors, with the IMF's revenue administration gap tool. The BBI is in the process of setting up a specific unit in the framework of the reinforcement initiated by the Anti-Fraud College. The unit will focus on abuses in the use of legal constructions. In some cases, it can undoubtedly be about the high-net-worth individuals, but also about other situations that require a correction of the tax situation. The general administration Fiscality, in particular the National Centre of Investigation, has several projects that map the informal economy through web scraping and classic analysis of data and encourage tax regularisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u33	Minister, the bigger the VAT gap or VAT gap, the more money flows from the government. The issue therefore deserves attention: the gap must be closed. After all, it is possible to recover some of the money, in order to demonstrate the measures taken by neighbouring countries which have indeed reduced the gap there. I am very pleased that you pay sufficient attention to the development of measures to reduce the gap between us. You will find a partner in us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u34	Since 1 January 2021, Belgium has been liable for a plastic tax to the European Commission. Revenue from the tax is part of the European Union's own resources. The levy would amount to around EUR 150 million for Belgium. It became clear from the examination of the budget by the Court of Auditors that the expenditure was not included in the federal budget or in the regional budget. The Belgian division of competence says that the regional governments are responsible for paying that tax, but the European level does not take account of the distribution of competences in the Member States. So she's gonna talk to the federal government about the plastic tax. For this reason, the Court of Auditors spoke of a real risk that the federal government will have to prefinance the sum. It is important that we settle the issue internally correctly and quickly. Do you have any idea of an arrangement with the Länder? When can we expect such an arrangement? On the basis of what key will the Länder be responsible for their share of this tax? Has the European Union already insisted on the payment of the tax? Will you pay the tax even if the federal level is not responsible for the tax under Belgian law? What are the possible consequences for Belgium if a payment is not made?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u35	The financing of the plastic tax to be paid to the European Union is still being studied at the interfederal level with a view to a possible cooperation agreement with the regions. Since the decision to introduce a plastic tax as own resources was ratified by Europe by law of 16 March, Belgium is obliged to pay the tax. The federal government paid the tax for 2021. Whether or not these payments will ultimately be pre-financing in the sense that they will be recovered in whole or in part through a contribution from the regions will, of course, depend on a possible cooperation agreement with the regions, but inter-federal consultation is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u36	Minister, cooperation federalism is a good word, but a difficult concept. Everyone wants as many powers as possible at their level. However, if certain obligations are attached to them, it will be considered how the powers can be interpreted in order to transfer the obligations to the other. I hope that you will soon be able to reach a final agreement with the Regions, so that the 150 million euro plastic tax does not float over our heads for too long as a ghost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u37	Mr Minister, employees or managers with an electric car from an employer or company often receive a refund of their home-fueled electricity. When a fuel card is used in fossil fuel vehicles or when the refund of home-fueled electricity is included in the employer's or company's car policy, the refund does not constitute an advantage of any kind. Consequently, the reimbursement is not taxable on top of the benefit of all the type of company car. In reply to a written question by Mr Vandenbroucke, No. 472, you add two conditions, namely that the loading post at home must have a specific communication system which communicates to the employer how much is consumed, and the employer himself must be responsible for the installation of a loading post at the employee's premises. Several accounting firms fear legal uncertainty or discussions with auditors and higher taxes by granting an additional advantage all nature. Do you actually add conditions to the law, or are the additional criteria purely for illustration? How is such tax discouragement of electric driving by granting an advantage of all kinds for private use compatible with the greening of the company car fleet? Can the placement of an intermediate meter or even an ordinary separate socket offer a solution? If yes, are the costs of such placement chargeable to the company or to the employer deductible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u38	First of all, I must clarify that a refund of electricity costs by the employer, even if that principle is included in the car policy, is not part of the flat-rate estimated benefit of all kinds of the company car provided, but is a separate advantage. This is not about the provision of electricity by the employer, but about reimbursement. It is precisely in order not to discourage the greening of the fleet that I have already decided, in response to the question mentioned, to allow a derogation from that basic principle for home charging, albeit under certain conditions, which must, of course, allow any abuse to be ruled out. It cannot be the intention that charges for another private vehicle should also be borne by the employer without giving rise to an additional advantage of all kinds. In the present case, only one advantage of all kinds will be taxed, namely the flat-rate benefit of all kinds applicable to the electric company car. In those circumstances, the repayment of electricity does not give rise to an additional tax advantage, in so far as, of course, the reimbursement relates exclusively to electricity for the electric company car provided. The employer must therefore ensure that he provides only for reimbursement in respect of the consumption of the commercial vehicles made available. So he needs to get a look at the consumption. Therefore, there is the requirement of a specific communication system. It may also be accepted that another form of communication is used, provided that it is verifiable. An intermediate counter is one of the possibilities. In the present case, where an employer places an intermediate counter with his employee and charges the costs thereof, that is, in principle, deductible professional costs, provided that the taxable advantage of all kinds relating to the company car made available is recorded on an individual sheet in the name of the employee. Finally, I can also say that my administration is working on a circular which will clarify the issue in greater detail so that we can guarantee equal treatment for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer and look forward to the circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u40	Minister, in your policy paper you promise to take further steps to improve the relationship between the tax administration and the taxpayer so that that relationship evolves from a conflict model to a cooperation model. Your policy paper says that you will continue to focus on the Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme (CTCP) and that a vision will be developed on horizontal supervision of SMEs However, recently we read in the media that the IRS rejects the write-off of the investment costs of a coastal apartment because the added value is not guaranteed. According to the IRS, climate change will ensure that sea level will rise and the apartment will no longer be habitable, let alone sellable. That is a message that surprises us all with his doomsday thinking. Not only does this reasoning run counter to the current price evolution of coastal apartments, but it also shows some cynicism in the tax administration that is not in line with the idea of a cooperative model based on trust and transparency. Is the argument mentioned part of the standard motivation of the tax administration? How far is the tax administration in its transition to a cooperative model? In concrete terms, then. What is the state of play regarding the further roll-out of the CTCP of Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme and what are the next steps? Is this vision text on horizontal supervision of SMEs drove available and can you provide us with a copy of it? If not, when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u41	Mr Leysen, the argument quoted in the press is not part of the standard motivations we propose to employees. First of all, I would like to point out that the CTCP focuses on very large companies. In this sense, it is not a direct solution to the problem to which you refer, which has recently appeared in the media. Nevertheless, eight groups of large companies participate in the CTCP. One company has signed the gentlemen's agreement and is in the operational phase of the CTCP, the other groups are all still in an intake phase. The Large Enterprises Administration continues to develop the programme and regularly organises communication actions or consultations with interested companies. A new version of the brochure on the CTCP has been available since September 2021. A survey on the CTCP is currently under way. These results will also be taken into account to strengthen the programme. The SME administration is also working on a vision on horizontal supervision. Given the diversity of the SME target group, ranging from the natural person with an additional profession subject to VAT to an enterprise that just does not meet the criteria for a large enterprise, an approach through professional groups and sectoral federations or through technology is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Leysen converted 55025272C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u44	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to take this question further. People have passions. In my view, that is the budget, above that, the Community files and at the very top of the North Sea. This question is part of that passion. Mr Minister, you are also a ship owner and responsible for a series of boats. So is your fellow Minister Verlinden, by the way. It's not just the Navy with Minister Dedonder and the police with Minister Verlinden, you too have boats, for customs purposes. A number of boats are taken out of service at the police station. I put the question to Minister Verlinden and she has announced an entire investment programme. New police boats are coming in. I hope to hear the same from you today. A customs boat was taken out of service, the second in a short time. First there was the SPN 15, a very fast boat that was not too seaworthy, and now there is the Zeewolf. Mr. Secretary, is there going to be a new boat? When's that gonna happen? How fast and how seaworthy will it be? Why is that replacement coming? Could you give us some more information on that? This is a serious question. The North Sea is, after all, extremely important in terms of economic impact and it cannot be overestimated in the field of customs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u45	Mr Loones, customs did not take out ships, but the lease contract that the General Administration of Customs and Excise had with the DAB Fleet for the use of the patrol vessel Sea lion on the coast and at sea and of the patrol vessel Seawolf in the port of Antwerp expired on 31 December 2021 and we did not renew this contract. No replacement is foreseen. Customs and Excise have opted to conclude cooperation agreements with Defence and with the shipping police for the joint use of service vessels. In addition, Customs and Excise are studying the purchase of a vessel as a strategic complement to the supply of police and military vessels with a view to combating the smuggling of goods by sea. However, I cannot give you any further information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u46	Do you have any idea when the investigation will be concluded? If not, I will put a supplementary question on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u47	No, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u48	Okay. As far as the rest of your answer is concerned, it seems logical to me that there should be cooperation between public administrations. I certainly want to encourage that. I had invited Minister Verlinden to give some thought to how she would crack the champagne bottle on the new ships. Perhaps you should include this in the cooperation agreements. This way you can crack a bottle each. It can only speed up and encourage the continued movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u49	Minister, customs seized 90 tonnes of cocaine in the port of Antwerp in 2021. That was announced at a press conference of the FPS Treasury. That was a third more than in 2020 and a doubling in five years. Cocaine has a total street value of 13 billion euros, according to customs. The main countries of origin are Panama, Ecuador and Paraguay. The authorities also intercepted 1 tonne of heroin and 12 tons of cannabis in 2021. In your opinion, the increase is due to a worldwide rise in drug punishment, but also to investment in customs performance. The revelations of Operation Sky also helped the authorities in their investigations. Of course, more drug seizures also mean that more drugs are being transported. Last year 160 tonnes of cocaine were discovered in the ports of origin intended for the port of Antwerp. My previous oral questions to the Minister of Finance, including to your predecessors, showed that in the first quarter of 2021 in the port of Antwerp only 2,38 % of containers were checked on importation. That's one container out of 42. What's the current percentage? What is the status of the project on 100 % scanning? In the coming years, customs will continue to invest in the fight against drug trafficking in the port of Antwerp. It is EUR 70 million, of which EUR 20 million in 2022. However, that will not be enough, Minister. Do our customs officers, who, for the sake of clarity, are going to have more people, resources and powers to finally tackle this violent billion-dollar business more decisively? What measures will the government and customs take to reverse this unacceptable trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u50	Mr Vermeersch, the percentage of controlled import containers remained the same throughout 2021. The checks are preceded by a 100 % screening of all PLDA declarations, the PaperLess Customs and Excise. With regard to the project on 100 % scanning, public procurement will be launched at the beginning of 2022 for the extension of control tools in the following years. The progress of the 100 % scanning project will also provide the necessary resources. The design and implementation of the 100 % scanning project is indeed intended to tackle drug smuggling even more firmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u51	Mr Minister, the control rate remains at 2.38 %, or one container at 42. We regret that no further progress has been made in the meantime. We will certainly continue to ask you to monitor that progress. We must not forget that drug trafficking in this country, under your responsibility, but also under the crushing responsibility of your predecessors, could become a violent billion-dollar business. The Antwerp Haven is Europe's drug turntable and the main gateway to cocaine from South America. This is reflected in joint reports by the United Nations and the World Customs Organisation. Minister, it is far too slow for us. We call on you to invest heavily in tackling this violent billion-dollar business, including for the safety of our citizens, not least those who are often attacked by drug violence in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u52	Minister, the provision of FPS finance to citizens is very important, including the ability to ask for information and to ask questions. In the autumn, in addition to the physical window, communication by letter, by telephone, via contact forms and online, the possibility was also used to make video calls online. In a previous question, you indicated that the Department of Prior Decisions partly because of the corona crisis recorded the consultations digitally via videoconferencing in the working method. In addition to the Prior Decision Service, for example, has the Fiscal Mediation Service been switched to a digital operation? Does the FPS Finance also consider planning video appointments online in addition to physical appointments, telephone, mail and contact forms?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u53	Mr Matheï, the Fiscal Mediation Service has also switched to digital operation. For requests from citizens who do not have actual requests for mediation, but which are treated as file contact, Cell Recovery or other persons in the context of the general service, the interaction with the applications is done as in the past via digital communication channels such as e-mail, telephone or video call. The choice of the communication channel takes into account the wishes of the citizen. The same applies to most of the conciliation files on recovery, for which separate contacts are mainly provided for. For the mediation files that require interaction with different interlocutors at the same time, in view of the circumstances, maximum use was made on video calls, unless the nature of the file still requires a physical meeting. No statistical data shall be kept in this respect. Since the outbreak of the corona pandemic, exploratory talks under the conciliation procedure have been conducted through an online video call. That is also the case for most of the other conciliation talks. Although there are or were already some punctual initiatives in this sense, for example on the occasion of completing the tax return for non-residents, there are currently no concrete plans within the FPS Finance to expand existing service channels with online video calls. Citizens, businesses and professional partners naturally expect an accessible and high-quality service from the government. The FPS Finance is committed to a tailor-made approach with automatic and maximum digital services wherever possible, and with simple interactions. There are three priorities for realising this ambition. Firstly, there is the development of a digital service. Important steps have been taken in the field of digital services in recent years by developing a large number of e-services that make it easier to fulfil obligations. That's all bundled up in the MyMinfin portal. A second priority is to improve telephone services. It remains a special focus to remain accessible to all businesses and citizens in an increasingly digitising world, regardless of their social or digital skills. Digital services remain important in this respect. Thirdly, we also want to make the physical reception more efficient. Due to the measures imposed in the fight against the coronavirus, the FPS Finance decided in March 2020 to limit physical agreements as much as possible. Where a face-to-face contact is needed, people will continue to work with appointments. These three priorities will be further developed in the coming period. We are, of course, following the evolution of service channels. The implementation of new service channels is also possible following an evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of these specific channels. The objective remains, of course, a tailor-made approach with automatic and maximum digital services, but also simple interactions where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u54	Minister, I think that, when providing good services, we should speak of an en-en-story, namely physically for those who cannot do otherwise, by telephone and digitally. As far as digital is concerned, indeed, a long way has come. Your policy paper also clearly shows that there are still a lot of steps in the pipeline that can be rolled out. Personally, I think that planning online video calls in an easily accessible way can certainly find its place in the different developments. In other words, video conversations can be organised in an easily accessible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u55	Mr Minister, the tax shelter for audiovisual works, a tax incentive for companies to invest in recognised works, is reflected in Article 194ter of the WIB 1992 and is seen as a very useful financial instrument. However, it is a complex arrangement and there is a risk that the Federal Tax Shelter Cell will not take into account a particular work, whereas the Communities will consider the work to be taken into account. This has to do with the interaction between the different levels of competence. Do you think, Minister, that the Community has exclusive competence to recognise a work to be taken into account? If so, does that rule out a substantive assessment by the Federal Cell Tax Shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u56	The recognition of a work to be eligible is a cultural matter for which the Communities have exclusive competence. In order to clarify the Communities' and the Federal State's own powers with regard to the tax shelter system, it adopted a cooperation agreement on 19 March 2020 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French-speaking Community and the German-speaking Community, which constitutes a legal basis for the respective division of powers. A distinction must be made between, on the one hand, the autonomy of the Communities regarding the recognition of the eligible work and, on the other hand, the delivery of the so-called tax shelter test by the Tax Shelter cell of the FPS Finance Office. The said certificate shall be issued only if it is established, on the basis of its examination, that all the modalities and conditions in this field have been met. According to Article 194ter, §7, paragraph 1, third paragraph of the WIB 1992, eligible production companies must submit to the Tax Shelter cell a document confirming that the work complies with the definition of a eligible work, as well as a document confirming the completion of the work by the Community concerned. If the Tax Shelter cell finds that the work for which the delivery of a tax shelter test is requested does not correspond to the work in the certificate of approval of the competent Community, it shall refuse delivery of the tax shelter test without exceeding its powers. However, the powers of investigation of the Taxshelter unit shall be without prejudice to the autonomy of the Communities with regard to the attestation of approval or completion. In principle, it can be assumed that the Communities can apply the legal provisions relating to the tax relief system with full knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u57	Minister, that was a clear statement and an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u58	All right. My question concerns the Couvin customs brigade, which could be closed down. The brigade building belongs to the Régie des Bâtiments and has recently been completely renovated. Previously, Couvin was a residence in Charleroi. It later became an antenna. Five officers are currently working on actions related to customs, excise duties, control of goods and drug trafficking. This Couvin Brigade covers a vast territory that extends to Bohan-sur-Semois, the Semois, passing through Rochefort, Beauraing, Gerpinnes, Momignies, the south of Hainaut, or some 160 km of borders and a territory of about 2,200 km2. Let us add that Couvin is a border town and is connected to France by the new motorway bypass of Couvin, with the work in progress for the E420. It has become an important gateway, which requires very serious control. Minister, the staff is worried. Can you give me more information on the possible restructuring envisaged for this brigade, like others? Do you or do you not confirm the planned closure of Couvin's antenna? If so, I will obviously plead to maintain it. I don't know what the procedure is. Are other antenna closures planned in Wallonia, particularly in the western part of Hainaut, Tournai and Mouscron? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u59	My colleague, the administrative organisation of customs services in our country is divided into seven regions. There are currently six customs and excise controls in the Mons region, including road and cargo control missions. This is also the case for the Couvin-based team. As far as Couvin is concerned, as part of the shift towards the new structure that has already taken place between 2013 and 2015, my administration has chosen to set up an antenna depending on the control of Charleroi. My administration is engaged in constant reflection on the improvement of the organization of its services according to economic activity throughout the territory. This is done with a view to determining the ideal balance between, on the one hand, the effectiveness of administrative action, on the other hand, the well-being of the agents and, finally, the rationalisation of the means available. Analyses are under way on Couvin's antenna, in particular. As part of the planned consultation, the conclusions and the future approach will be presented to the representative trade union organisations in a comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u60	Minister, thank you. In the organisation of services, I mean that three criteria are taken into account: efficiency, the well-being of agents, the rationalisation of resources. Two of these three criteria support the maintenance of the antenna in Couvin and certainly the effectiveness, given the geographical situation and the work carried out there; the well-being of the agents as well. On the other hand, if rationalisation of resources takes precedence over the other two criteria, this could lead to a reorganization that would be unfavourable to Couvin. I can only invite you and your administration to study this issue carefully. I plead for the maintenance of this well-functioning antenna which has done enormous work on this territory. Analyses are under way, as well as social consultation. I don't know how the balance will be tilted because your answer doesn't tell me. I hope you can keep that antenna in Couvin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u61	Mr President, my question is on a very topical subject. Yesterday, the National Bank released the balance of the budget in this country. In presenting the annual report, Governor Wunsch argued that rising debt levels are jeopardising the sustainability of public finances. Nevertheless, he is abandoning the objective of achieving a budget balance by 2030, which is a deviation from Maastricht standards. Remarkably, also in De Tijd, Bart Haeck responds in his comments: "A new way to look at the budget makes sense. However, there is a great danger that the door will be opened to political laxity.'. That is certainly a debate that is being continued. The Flemish Government is asking that Europe tightens the budgetary rules. This also reported a few weeks ago De Tijd. I quote: 'It is clear from the question of being stricter than the rule that budget deficits should not exceed 3% of GDP. Flanders thinks that standard is too lax. The Flemish government also asks to return to the rule that debt should not exceed 60% of GDP." The Flemish Government asks the Federal Minister of Finance to express this position at European level. Minister, have you received the Flemish position formally? If so, when? You can agree with the Flemish position on the government deficit. For the Flemish government, governments can only make deficits with productive investments. For the federal government, on the other hand, governments can make deficits, up to 3%. In addition, there should be exceptions for green investments. Last week there was an extensive discussion with Mr Derminne on these European budgetary standards. As you know, he is calling for an even greater exception in Europe. You can agree with the Flemish position on public debt. For the Flemish government, the 60% route must be enforceable with qualitative sanctions. For example, Member States should no longer designate a European Commissioner or be given less voting rights in the European Council. How feasible do you consider the Flemish position at European level? Which states still have to make their views known? When and in what way will the Belgian position be communicated to the Länder? Finally, to what extent can the Belgian position be influenced by the increasingly unsustainable debt of Wallonia and Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u62	Mr Vermeersch, on my proposal, as a guide to the discussions at European level, a federal positioning was developed with some important chalk lines. We have had a number of exchanges of views on the content of the report in the Committee on Finance. This positioning was shared with the Länder and their input was also requested. I am therefore pleased that the Flemish Government has responded to my question by publishing a position statement on 14 January. So far I have not received an official statement from the other Länder. As a result of the questions, including the specific question about my vision on them, I would like to discuss the short content of that Flemish position. Like the Flemish Government, I am convinced of the importance of clear rules for deficit and debt. I have already mentioned this in my speeches at European level. These standards are important for our financial stability and also important for the sustainability of public finances and the confidence of financial markets. Clear targets are therefore necessary. There is therefore no need at present to adapt the Maastricht standards. There is also insufficient political support at European level to adapt these standards. However, I believe that we should look at the route of deleveraging. We need to develop more realistic and possibly individual pathways. Flanders also recognises the importance of a route of deleveraging with a view to long-term debt sustainability. There is, of course, also a need for important productive investments if, among other things, we want to bring our green and digital transition to a successful conclusion. Similar to the federal positioning, Flanders states that there should be room for additional investments, without abandoning the budgetary targets. I also follow the Flemish position that there is a need for better enforcement of budgetary rules. When we allow ex ante more flexibility, ex post better enforcement is needed. The examples you mention, as the Commissioner no longer mentions, are not part of the Flemish note. These examples were only discussed in the media. I do not think it would be wise to argue in favour of this from Belgium either. This does not, of course, prevent us from looking for suitable instruments that can increase the enforcement of the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u63	Minister, if I listen to you between the lines, you have sympathy for the Flemish position. However, I would like to draw your attention to the nihilism and schizophrenic situation in this country. By nihilism, I mean this. You're talking about a route to debt disposal. However, the path that this country is currently pursuing is not a path to deleveraging but a path to debt-building. That is completely denying the situation in this country, which is nihilism. It's also a schizophrenic situation. In Flanders, attempts are being made to get rid of it, to enforce strict budgetary rules, and to do so is being advocated. However, we see completely the opposite in Wallonia. Worse still, as a result of the European Recovery Fund, and the reduction of EUR 350 million for Wallonia, Eilo Di Rupo of the week pleads for federal solidarity. You know, like us, what federal solidarity means. That means more Flemish money for Walloon spending. Professor André Decoster of the KU Leuven calculated that at least 8.3 billion will be transferred to Wallonia this year, which amounts to 2,300 euros per Waal. This amount will increase to EUR 2,500 per inhabitant of Wallonia next year. That's an unbearable transfer of wealth. We must be honest, in the case of the floods in July Wallonia was not prepared for an additional crisis, there were no reserves at all. The Walloon authorities are virtually bankrupt, all parameters are currently worse than those of Greece. With the current PS policy, it will only get worse. For us, therefore, there can be no additional Flemish money to compensate for the reduced income of the European Recovery Fund. The situation is completely schizophrenic. While Flanders wants to go to hell, Wallonia continues to spend more systematically than what comes in. The situation there is completely derailing. So I call you to order. Why don't you sit down with your colleagues in the government and think about what direction we want to go with this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u64	Minister, the newspaper De Tijd reported that due to a complex twist in tax law 55-plussers are at risk of being taxed more heavily when they simply increase the deposit for their long-term savings or pension savings from one year to the next. Are you familiar with the article "More deposit for pension is out of the question for 55-plussers" from De Tijd? Is the article substantively and factually correct? For pension savings and long-term savings, 54 years appear to be a key age. Both Febelfin and Assuralia advise against premium increases from 55 years. Banks in principle do not even allow for increases after 55 years. Do you think that effect is desirable? What is your position on this technical and complex matter? Should not the saver be better protected in this respect? Febelfin points out the lack of concrete provisions and the lack of a clear position on the part of the tax authorities and the government. Are you prepared to take legislative initiatives to address and solve this problem in favour of the saver, i.e. with the best possible tax treatment of premium increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u65	The article correctly indicates that the age of 54 is a key moment for further choices on the third pillar of pension savings. However, the cases referred to in the article appear to be rare in practice. In contact with representatives of the banking sector, I was informed that most 55-plusers usually continue to pay a fixed amount each year into their pension savings fund. As a result, these savers are not affected by the relevant legal provision. It is up to the banks to correctly comply with their customer information obligations. In their advice to customers, banks will point out the possible tax implications of their choices. It is even possible that banks may decide not to accept increases from the age of 55 on the basis of their duty of care. The main protection is guaranteed, banks have a duty of care and information that protects the saver. Moreover, virtually all pension savings funds are UCITS and are supervised by the national supervisory authority. In addition to their obligation to provide information on legal documents, including a prospectus containing key investment information and follow-up documents, banks also comply with their duty of care by always acting exclusively in the interests of their customers. Pension savings funds must explicitly appoint a management company. The management company, an asset manager, ensures, among other things, liquidity policy and risk management. These determine the structure of the diversified portfolio of investments within the limits laid down by law. Assets of pension savings funds shall constitute separate assets and shall be completely separate from the assets and liabilities of the bank. In short, they are not included in the balance sheet of the bank. So it seems to me that the saver is optimally protected. The banking sector has also confirmed that the cases mentioned in the newspaper article are rare, as most savers usually pay a fixed contribution every year. Moreover, the banks have informed me that they receive virtually no complaints about this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say that these cases are rare, but it is of course not excluded that they occur. If that happens, the saver will of course be the victim. We believe that the saver should be protected. We therefore call on you to include this effect in future legislation on pension savings and long-term savings, and to take legislative initiatives to address and solve this problem in favour of the saver. I would like to explain that we want the most favourable tax treatment possible for any increases in premiums. You have said twice that it is rare, but if it does occur, I think we should have a system that provides the savers with an optimal solution, not the current situation in which they are getting the short cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u67	Minister, my question concerns the future of the registration office in Neufchâteau. This city is located in the centre of the province of Luxembourg. The 20 staff members of the registration office in Neufchâteau have recently learned, at a videoconference, that their service is expected to move in the near future. It's very bad news for them, very discouraging. It should be noted that this service is understaffed and is highly sought after. Minister, is it true that they will have to move? I hope this decision is not irrevocable. Do you intend to find a balanced and less unilateral solution for this service? Have you negotiated with the staff? You have understood: I really want everything to be done so that this staff can continue their work by being based in the commune of nine castle. This is also the wish of the young mayor of Neufchâteau, Mr Huberty. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u68	Mr. Arens, one of the objectives of the relocation of the Neufchâteau office is to pool skills to respond to the critical structural shortage of management and expert positions so that we can better support our employees. My administration is aware of the challenge of moving services. This is why the administration is studying the modalities of this move and its impact on staff. Health rules limit the scope for consultation; however, management has planned an on-site visit to address the concerns of the agents, with constructive solutions through a serene dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u69	I thank the minister for his answer, but I would like to insist. Currently, these officials work in government-owned offices. Tomorrow, if I understand correctly, they will be sent to offices that the state rents to private individuals. Secondly, I really insist that this service, which is in Neufchâteau, remains there, just as I believe that the services which are in other cities, whether in the province of Luxembourg or elsewhere, also remain in the cities and in the places where they are, both for the staff and for the socio-economic life of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to have referred to my text at first, but I understand that this is not possible for technical reasons. That is why I shall read out my questions. Mr Minister, as from January 2022, banks will be required to report all balances of bank accounts and insurance contracts to a central register, the Central Account and Financial Contract Contact Point (CAP). The scope of the reporting obligation, in the form of periodic reporting, is considered problematic by the Data Protection Authority. It calls for stricter enforcement of the existing rules rather than a particularly far-reaching centralisation of highly sensitive financial data. The GBA considers that the fight against large-scale and cross-border fraud cannot be responsible for the far-reaching obligation to communicate. The provision whereby public utility services may obtain information which proves useful for the performance of their contracts shall also be deemed to be too general by the GBA. Why was the GBA's objections not addressed? Why are personal data kept in the CAP for 10 years while requests for information are kept for only 5 years? Why does the government want to have this information? Is it the intention to create a power caster?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u71	Mr President, Minister, European GDPR legislation regulates how organisations and public authorities should deal with personal data. In a case before the GBA Disputes Chamber, an accountant from Luxembourg asked the BBI for information, access, rectification and limitation of the processing of her personal data in a file in which she was, in her own words, wrongly labelled as a stroman. The IRS refused to respond to its request, after which the GBA wronged the IRS. The GBA's Disputes Court also noted that a limitation of citizens' rights under GDPR legislation can only be achieved in order to safeguard an important interest that must be proportionate and limited in time. According to several tax lawyers, the tax authorities all too often refer to the general interest of budgetary or tax matters in order to discharge their obligations. The tax authorities do not have internal procedures that allow a complete overview of all personal data. However, accountability is a cornerstone of the GDPR which should make it technically possible to request all personal data from someone. Do you not think that the government has an exemplary role to play as companies and other organisations are also subject to GDPR legislation? How can the tax authorities ensure in the future that taxpayers can make use of the accountability that organisations and governments have under GDPR legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u72	Mr President, I refer to the reasons set out in the explanatory statement and the report to the King and the respective royal decrees. As regards the period of time relating to personal data, the limitation period applicable to corrected crimes and crimes is laid down by law. The data is stored in the CAP for a period of 10 years. For information requests, the statutory retention period is set at five years in accordance with European law. The possibility of consulting this data is intended to ensure the greater transparency and fairness of our tax system, not to build a property registry. The search of the CAP by my administration in the context of fiscal research thus represents a task of general interest within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation. Those needs of the tax investigation and of the legal mission performed by the tax administration are clearly identified in the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. It also validates the special examination of tax authorities in the General Data Protection Regulation. This makes sense, given the challenges facing tax administrations today. The General Data Protection Regulation provides for an exception for public authorities which, by virtue of a legal obligation, cannot be interpreted so strictly that the efficiency of its activities, which are of public policy, would be called into question. Mr Donné, the FPS Finance already provides citizens with the personal data processed through the MyMinFin platform. If the request relates to an ongoing tax file, the citizen may refer his data to the competent department whose contact details are communicated to him. The decision of the GBA to which you refer was completely broken by the Court of Appeal in Brussels, Marketenhof Department on 1 December 2021. The complainant in an BBI investigation has abused her complaint right in accordance with the GDPR. The judgment referred to above specifies the following on tax investigations: "The fight against possible international tax fraud and avoidance constitutes an objective of general interest recognised by the EU within the meaning of Article 52, first of the Charter'. I agree with you that the government should serve as an example, but this cannot prejudice the exercise of public authority by the FPS Finance, as confirmed in the above ruling of the Marktenhof.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u73	Mr Minister, it is officially stated that the purpose of the exchange of information is to facilitate fraud investigations and the like. We all agree that crime and fraud must be combated, but the way it can and can be done is another matter. Big brother is watching you. In the past, they were innocent to prove otherwise, and today we find that there is an evolution in which almost everyone is considered guilty as proof of innocence. More data on citizens are collected at a rapid train speed, resulting in an increasing impact on privacy. The government has simply ignored the opinion of the Data Protection Authority on this matter. You say that no asset register will be linked to the CAP, but we fear that ministers will come and go, that policy will come and go that in the future it might be the intention to introduce a capital register on financial accounts, with the aim of the information collected not so much introducing fair taxes as introducing additional taxes. That is what we are doing, especially if it requires far-reaching privacy interventions that even go against the advice of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u74	In reply to my question, Minister, I no longer have any specific comments. However, I have a number of comments to make about the tax office and its duty of transparency and so on. I would, however, like to keep them until the time when I answer your question. 55025364C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u75	Mr Minister, over the last few months you have had discussions with representatives of the economic professions on the deadlines for the declaration of personal and corporation tax. The deadlines are increasingly difficult for many staff members to respect. That was something we had to raise in previous sessions with our plea for a postponement of those declarations. For the sake of the workability of the deadlines and in order to avoid structural questions for a general delay, you decided to adjust the deadlines and to include them in the law. You launched a public survey to gather comments and suggestions on the reporting deadlines, which ran until January 25th of this year. How many comments and suggestions has the FPS Finance received through its web page? What are the main content of the comments and suggestions? What associations and professional groups have made their comments and suggestions? What policy conclusions do you draw from the public survey? Finally, in what way will the reporting deadlines be reformed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u76	Mr Vermeersch, on 26 January the public survey of the reporting deadlines was closed. 3.378 replies were sent in. Since they are anonymous, it is not possible to identify which association or profession they come from. Its analysis is ongoing. It is therefore too early to draw any conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u77	Mr Minister, the public inquiry has been closed several days ago and yet you cannot yet provide information, despite Parliament's desire to be informed. I understood that some professional groups had called on their members to respond to the public survey and to insist that some limit dates should be dealt with more coulantly. I'll follow up on the file. So when will you be able to provide the necessary information to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u78	The information from the public survey is, of course, part of the reform that we are currently preparing. I would like to see progress in this area. As soon as there is further information, I will be happy to inform Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u79	There is therefore no solution to the reporting period for personal and corporate taxes 2022? I see there's still some work to be done. I hold my heart that we are achieving the reporting deadlines for personal and corporate taxes 2022. That is important, because otherwise we will be standing here together with the professional groups again with requests for postponement, which is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u80	Mr President, Minister Wallonia and Brussels aim to set up pilot experiments called "Long-term Zero Unemployed Territories". The aim is to enable people away from employment to regain dignity and flourish in the experience of work that meets their desires and skills, and to meet unmet needs in specific areas. These pilot projects, notably in Hainaut and Virton, in the province of Luxembourg, are slow to materialize in both Brussels and Wallonia. The CSC and other representatives of the community are concerned that the original ambitions will be unraveled. Minister Clerfayt stated that he could not do without federal funding. Minister Morreale, on the other hand, is less frank, even if in fact it is the same: we are not making any progress. On 25 January, your colleague, Minister Dermagne, said in the Committee on Employment: "It is logical that the federal government should contribute to the establishment of the "long-term zero-unemployed territories". I have asked my colleague the Minister of Finance to analyse how these initiatives can be supported in the context of the adjustment of the free zones." Minister, what is your analysis? What is she? When will you be able to propose a concrete aid project to the Regions on this subject? Will federal assistance be conditional? If so, which ones? How much will the federal budget be spent on projects of the type "Long-term unemployed zero-territories"?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u81	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, I would like to recall what I have said in the past concerning the reform of the regulation on aid areas. I am prepared to reform the regulatory framework for aid areas and am, in principle, open to any new ideas. Only this kind of reform must be supported by all regions. Therefore, I will only engage in a reform process if consensus can be reached among all the regions of our country on the way forward. With regard to the project "Territories zero long-term unemployed", I am well aware of the outline of the latter, but to date I have not received any concrete proposals. On the basis of the information available to me, this measure does not seem to me to be compatible with the current setting up of aid zones which aim to encourage business investment rather than to encourage the hiring of long-term unemployed. Any federal support for this project would, in my view, require a new category of professional prepayment waivers that would be in addition to the 12 others that exist today. It must also be borne in mind that the Walloon Region has also requested that the benefit of the exemption from the payment of the professional discount be allocated to the support of companies affected by the floods this summer. In this regard, my colleagues have received a concrete request from the Walloon Region, which seems to give this measure a higher political priority. Given the particular situation of the federal budget, the chances of success of other new projects appear to be relatively limited if they are not developed in a neutral fiscal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I will follow this issue very closely by asking again Minister Dermagne, who quoted you in one of his speeches in the Committee on Employment. In my view, making every effort to ensure that more people work and fewer people are unemployed also favours the budgets of our different entities. I am counting on you, Mr Minister, to make progress on this issue, just as I ask you not to forget the invitation of the mayors of South Luxembourg to visit their region. We look forward to you, the days will grow longer, the spring is near!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u83	Minister, the flight tax has already been discussed in the media and in Parliament. You will have read my budget questions about this, particularly about the different types of flights, both inside and outside Europe, less than 500 kilometres or more. There are also subhypotheses whose budgetary impact would be interesting. It is also about what the MR has proposed. I don't know if he did that at the table, too? Maybe you have some information on that. How do you estimate all that? Do you see that effectively as a greening measure, as it is sold by some, or rather as a tax increase, as experts seem to suggest earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u84	Minister, in addition to the energy agreement, the federal government has also reached a smaller agreement on a mini-tax shift. It contains several parts, including the flight tax. That is not what I am talking about, but rather about the Special Contribution Social Security which is gradually extinct. Employees earning up to 3,500 euros per month would therefore pay 100 euros less taxes per year. Can you confirm the amounts that have been circulated in the press? The budgetary notifications of 20 October 2021 stated that the tax shift would apply from 1 April 2022, when minimum wages in IPA increase. Will this deadline remain feasible? The budgetary notifications stated that the reduction in labour charges for two thirds consists of a reduction in the Special Social Security Contribution and for one third of the work bonus. Is this division in the agreement respected? According to Parliament's budget format table, in 2022 EUR 225 million will be offset by EUR 75 million from the non-payment of the farm levy, EUR 120 million from excise duties on tobacco and EUR 30 million from the landing tax. Are all these budgeted amounts still on the table? If not, what amounts should be adjusted today? Is it true that six scenarios were on the table with proposals from all political families concerning the distribution of the burden reduction among income groups and family situations? What scenario did it end up with and why? Finally, the budgetary notifications suggested that a system should be developed, which would "reduce low and middle wages in purchasing power, thereby reducing the fall in promotion." What is the specific monthly tax benefit for couples and single people respectively, and for middle wages and the lowest wages? Who will ultimately benefit most from this mini-tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u85	Mr Vermeersch, single people with a taxable income between EUR 18,592 and EUR 37,344 will win around EUR 100 per year. Profits are degressive for single persons with taxable income between €37.344 and €40.997. Individuals with a taxable income higher than that amount will continue to pay the same BBSZ. Couples with a taxable income between 18,592 euros and 74,690 euros will win 100 euros annually. After that, profits are degressive. For couples with a taxable income higher than 81,994 euros, the BBSZ does not reduce. The tax shift will enter into force from 1 April 2022. The breakdown and amounts shown in the budget notifications are still valid. Mr Vermeersch, I understand that you are interested in what scenario it is for which party within the government, but that is not relevant here. Several sections were discussed, quantified, presented, and ultimately the government, in all its wisdom, made a decision which it will also implement, in accordance with the agreed budget notifications. Mr Loones, the budgetary cost of this reduction of labour charges is offset, among other things, by the introduction of the boarding fee, which in 2022 will have to pay EUR 30.3 million for flights of less than 500 km and EUR 2.5 million for longer flights within the European Economic Area. This will be EUR 11.2 million for the United Kingdom and Switzerland and EUR 16.6 million for flights outside. For 2023, this revenue was estimated at EUR 41.6 million, as it would be a full year. According to the experts, tax rates are too low to achieve behavioural changes. That is a pertinent remark, but the government does not intend to compensate for all external environmental costs and the non-taxation of excise duties and VAT at the time of its introduction. In setting the rate, other factors such as the rates in the neighbouring countries, the fact that this is a completely new tax and the possible economic effects were also taken into account. I do not agree with the fact that this is purely a tax increase. I believe that this tax shift is intended to reduce the burden on labour and shift it to polluting activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. At least it gives inspiration to deepen the debate even further. I would also like to thank you for the budgetary information, which we will, of course, follow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u87	Mr Minister, I will look at your figures later, because this government has quite a bit of a set of figures. I would remind you of the Prime Minister's statements in plenary that, thanks to the increase in the purchasing power of this government, a single person could deduct EUR 1,000 while a couple could deduct 2,000 from the measures taken by this government compared to last year. We will check these figures against reality in the next few weeks and months. The draft laws, which will undoubtedly pass through the Finance Committee, will be followed in a critical manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u88	Mr Minister, agreements are, of course, concluded in the government and, more than regularly, mini-agreements, on which there is some comment. In addition, there are the broad structural lines and it is always good to look at them in that light. One of these lines is the ambition of your government to further strengthen the Federal Participation and Investment Company and make it a larger investment vehicle. It wants to centralise a number of public participations. This could also be a first step towards a later core task exercise. I'm interested in that project. In L'Echo, a French newspaper, I read that there are problems with the integration of Belfius. You would have agreed, but you added that they are not structural problems. That triggers my interest. What exactly is going on? Does that jeopardize your plans and timing? Can you give me any information on that? I also believe that the issue deserves a broader debate in committee. We've had the people of the FPIM here before. It would be good to come together again on this, once the plans become more concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u89	Mr Loones, in the light of the press articles, I understand your concern, but I can tell you that there are no problems with the centralisation dossier of Belfius. The centralisation process of Belfius differs from the process of the other companies, given that the State owns 100 % of Belfius and that the supervisor for Belfius is the ECB. Therefore, unlike other dossiers, the process with Belfius is subject to consultation with the ECB. This is also planned and will be organised in the coming weeks as soon as the dossier for the ECB is completed. It remains our intention to centralize Belfius on the FPIM balance sheet. The timing depends on our contacts with the ECB. The end of this year seems to me to be a realistic objective to complete centralization.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for the information. This also gives us an idea of the timing of parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u91	Minister, as you know, Belgium has a particularly advantageous tax system on intellectual property income. According to the EU Tax Observatory, it is even one of the most advantageous tax regimes in the EU, with an effective tax rate of around 4%. In the near future, the European Pillar 2 Directive, which introduces a minimum tax of 15% on multinationals following the agreement reached at OECD level, will enter into force. It may have an impact on national tax regimes such as that on intellectual property income, since this raises the question of the definition of the taxable base and what should be considered a profit, whether taxable or not. With regard to this first question, I would like to ask you, Minister, whether the FPS Finance has carried out an impact assessment on the economy and businesses in Belgium with regard to the implementation of Pillar 2. Will intellectual property revenues be impacted? My second question on pillar 2 concerns the Domestic Top-up Tax and its implementation. As you know, the proposal for a directive to implement Pillar 2 introducing a minimum tax of 15% for multinationals should bring in EUR 48 billion. The European Commission refers to a Domestic Top-up Tax mechanism. If I understand correctly, it is a question of allowing EU Member States to exercise the option of applying a national supplementary tax to national subsidiaries of low-tax multinationals. This option would make it possible to charge the additional tax payable by subsidiaries of the multinational group at local level in the Member State concerned and not at the level of the parent entity. This would not prevent the country of the parent entity from applying the minimum tax, but in doing so, the parent entity will have to reduce the national complementary tax paid at the local level when calculating the additional tax under Pillar 2. I have sent you a fictitious example to which I refer in the question. For me, this is a problem. A priori, according to several experts, this measure will mainly benefit European countries with low tax rates as they will be able to maintain low tax rates and apply the Domestic Top-up Tax mechanism whenever the GloBE rules are likely to apply to the subsidiary of a multinational in their territory. The French Presidency wishes to obtain an agreement at ECOFIN on 15 March, which leads me to ask you a number of questions. Has your administration been able to make an evaluation of this Domestic Top-up Tax mechanism, which is still likely to change things in Belgium? If so, will he be in favour of our country? If not, what do you intend to do about it? Finally, does the government support the European Commission's proposal in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u92	Mr Bayet, the FPS Finance is currently carrying out calculations to estimate the budgetary impact of the implementation of pillars 1 and 2. Legal details on the implementation of Pillar 2 were published by the OECD at the end of December 2021. To date, it has not yet been possible to determine precisely the impact this pillar will have on Belgian revenues. This is due to the legal technicality of pillar 2, the lack of data available to make accurate estimates and the unpredictable behaviour of other countries. Income from intellectual property will be subject to the taxable rule under Pillar 2. This applies to certain intra-group payments, including intellectual property income. If two States have signed a treaty allowing the partial or total exemption from taxation of certain payments between two entities of the same group, including intellectual property taxes, the State of the source may impose such income so that their total tax in the country of origin and in the country where they are taxed is at a rate of 9%. This avoids the erosion of the taxable base of the source State. It should be noted that the implementation of this rule is not yet fully defined. The proposal for a Directive on the introduction of a new global tax minimum for multinational groups in the Union is currently being negotiated within the Council of the European Union's Working Group on Tax Issues. The FPS Finance experts analysed this proposal for a directive, as did the OECD's GloBE model rules on which it is based. The mechanism of the Domestic Top-upTax is mentioned both in the GloBE model rules and in the proposal for a directive. As you indicate, this Domestic Top-upTax mechanism will allow the additional tax to be levied by subsidiaries of the multinational group at local level in the Member State concerned and not at the level of the parent entity. It will therefore in principle be in the interest of all Member States to opt for this mechanism. Indeed, subsidiaries of a group located in a State applying a high nominal tax rate may nevertheless be subject to the supplementary tax, in so far as it is based on the effective tax rate and not on the nominal rate. If this additional tax is not levied at the local level by means of the Domestic Top-up Tax, then it is levied by another court. The Government fully supports the European Commission's proposal for a directive and is actively working towards its early finalization, although the objective of 15 March remains ambitious. The French Presidency of the Council of the European Union provides itself with the means to achieve this by carrying out the work quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that your administration did not have time to calculate all this, but your answer shows me how important the questions I ask are for the future of our country. I know that it is difficult at present to determine the result on the impact of pillar 2 in Belgium, as well as for the Domestic Top-up Tax, but these are in any case very important technical points which it is more than time to look at because, Minister, our government will be responsible for the implementation of this measure. I think that your concern, like mine, is to achieve better tax collection and fairer taxation, so it is really more than time to look at these technical aspects and to have quantified results that can allow us to know whether we are moving in the right direction or whether Belgium should adopt complementary legislation. I thank you already for the future work you are going to do in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u94	Minister, in the coming days, the European Union will publish its updated list of tax havens. No particular change is expected, except that Russia should be included on the grey list, which is justified in the light of Russia's shortcomings in this area. We can also be pleased that the geopolitical context has not influenced this choice, a priori. However, the latest evidence in my possession suggests that other countries should be on this grey list, such as the Bahamas, the British Virgin Islands, Barbados, Belize, Israel, etc., because they do not meet the criteria for tax transparency. This new list may be another disappointment in our fight against tax evasion since, unfortunately, the blacklist remains an empty box, not including any country mentioned in the Pandora Papers. It is really difficult for me to explain this to the citizens, but you probably have answers to give me. This is certainly due to shortcomings in the selection criteria, but public opinion does not understand it. For example, as a result of the Erosion and Profit Shifting (Basic Erosion of the Tax Base and Profit Transfer, BEPS) minimum taxation agreement of 15% of multinationals in the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), countries that still have zero-rate taxation should be on the blacklist, while countries with a rate of less than 15% should be on the greylist. Applying this criterion, for example, the Bahamas and Bermuda, which apply zero rates, should be blacklisted. However, they are not there, and that raises questions. We can also ask ourselves the question of the implementation of a specific criterion relating to the transparency of actual profits. The case of the United States is intriguing here. The United States and the European Union have introduced a similar system, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), but tax authorities in EU Member States do not receive as much information from the US under their bilateral agreements as from OECD countries participating in the Common Reporting Standard (CRS). On 21 October 2021 the European Parliament adopted a resolution following the Pandora Papers in which it took up these elements and pointed to the financial opacity of the United States. What do you think of the proposed new list of tax havens? Is this not a missed opportunity in the fight against tax evasion while you are in charge of the new tax reform in Belgium? What do you think of the new 15% standard to establish a new selection criterion? Is she fair or not? Inducedly, should not countries that still have zero rates be included in this blacklist. What do you think about the implementation of a specific criterion for transparency of actual profits? We must have answers to these questions, minister. We need to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u95	Mr Minister, I would like to make two points about the list of tax havens: the Belgian perspective and the European perspective. On the Belgian side, the FPS Finances issued at the end of December 2021 a new circular (2021/C/112) on the reporting of certain payments by certain taxpayers to certain tax havens. The European Union is expected to publish its new list of tax havens at the end of February. Belgian Circular 2021/C/112 defines three categories of States covered by the reporting obligation, which can be summarized as the addition of the OECD, Belgian and European lists. A total of 48 States are covered. As for the future European list of tax havens, what we know is that it should add Russia to the grey list. Given the current political tensions between Russia and the Western states under the leadership of the United States, this timing can only raise questions as much as Russia has, to my knowledge, never been on any list of tax havens, neither official nor academic, nor established by NGOs. The credibility of the Belgian and European lists, already seriously compromised by the absence of important tax havens, is therefore likely to be even more so by the addition of countries for more geopolitical than fiscal reasons, both by what it contains, but above all by what is missing from it. Oxfam lists the 15 worst tax havens used by businesses around the world to escape tax: 1) Bermuda, 2) Cayman Islands, 3) Netherlands, 4) Switzerland, 5) Singapore, 6) Ireland, 7) Luxembourg, 8) Curaçao, 9) Hong Kong, 10) Cyprus, 11) Bahamas, 12) Jersey, 13) Barbados, 14) Mauritius, 15) British Virgin Islands. Of the 48 States covered by the Belgian Circular, only six are tax havens: Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Bahamas, Jersey, Barbados, and the British Virgin Islands. That raises the question. Why are nine of the 15 worst tax havens listed by Oxfam not covered by the Belgian obligation to report payments to tax havens? Can you tell us more about the future European list? What is your position with regard to any withdrawals and additions to this list? Do you not find that the addition of Russia to the European list with, in mirror, the absence of important tax havens, will make it a more political than fiscal list? In view of the flagrant absences from this list, do you consider the criteria for establishing the European (or OECD) list to be relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u96	Mr Bayet and Mr Van Hees, the fight against the abuse of tax-free or low-tax jurisdictions remains important. I therefore welcome the contribution of organizations such as the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and Oxfam to the public debate on this subject. However, the Oxfam list to which you refer has not been established by my administration, so no information can be given on why a country such as the Netherlands is on Oxfam's list. The OECD agreement on pillars 1 and 2 once again demonstrates the need for an international approach. Mr Bayet, at European level, the European list of non-cooperative countries and territories for tax purposes is based on three criteria that were already defined at the ECOFIN Council in 2016. In this context, the working group on the code of conduct in the field of business taxation assesses the specific situation of the courts on the basis of reports and evaluations by the Commission, including for Russia. This procedure shall be followed without distinction for all third countries which fall within the scope of the European Union list. Any change to the list is based on objective and factual elements. Only such a method of work guarantees fair rules. The ECOFIN Council attaches particular importance to the strict monitoring of the list. Recently, the Working Group on the Code of Conduct has been asked to maintain an effective dialogue with the relevant jurisdictions in order to meet their commitments within the agreed deadlines. As indicated in my policy statement, Belgium supports an update of the criteria and an extension of the geographical scope. I can already tell you that after the adoption of the proposal for a directive to implement pillars 1 and 2, the working group will take the initiative to adapt the criteria of the European Union list. Belgium will also plead here for rapid adaptation in order to fight more effectively against harmful tax practices in third countries. Finally, Belgium calls for the introduction of a new criterion for the exchange of information on beneficial owners; it is likely that the French Presidency will put forward proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear you say that Belgium wants to adapt the criteria in the list and that it wants to impose a new criterion on beneficial owners. I think you're right. When I was a Member of the European Parliament, I fought a lot on the country-by-country report. This is really an essential element in the effective fight against tax evasion. After that, I am somewhat disappointed with your answer. Indeed, I think that, beyond the European position, Belgium must really be a driving force. If the defiance of our fellow citizens towards the political world increases, it may also be because we are not up to the challenge. How can it be explained that countries with zero rates of taxation are not on the blacklist? I can't explain it. You say that what is on the list of Oxfam and the consortium of journalists is not what is on the list of your administration and that, therefore, you do not know how to answer it. I hear; but I really think that your administration must provide you with answers and that Belgium must have a very strong voice on this. There are billions of euros that go into nature every year because of tax evasion. It is really money we need for our economy and for our workers. I think that as Minister of Finance and responsible for our future tax reform, you have a more important role to play. I have every confidence in you and I really hope that you will be able to fight at European level to change this and ensure that we can meet the legitimate expectations of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u98	Minister, you don't have any information on Oxfam's list and you don't know why the Netherlands is on this list of tax havens. I invite you to go out into the real world, from your firm, and see for example on the internet the number of articles and analyses that exist on the role of tax havens in countries like the Netherlands. That's terrible. This country is part of the tax avoidance strategies of many multinationals. That's the reality! To make up this list of tax havens, it is necessary not to take into account the pseudo-commitments of certain states but to build on the reality of what a tax haven is. This is what is lacking in official lists in contrast to NGO lists, for example. On the one hand, a macro-economic analysis of the financial movements of these countries must be carried out (this is what Gabriel Zucman does in "Missing profits" (with a map on which figures are taken for each country) and, on the other hand, an analysis of the tax avoidance strategies of multinationals. There, you would see the effectiveness of these tax havens and how they act in a way that is particularly harmful to public finances. That's what we should do. But obviously this is not the direction taken either by Belgium or by the other States.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u99	Madam President, Minister, in theory dividends in Belgium are taxed at 30%. I say well in theory; indeed, whether it is payments from a Belgian company to Belgian or foreign shareholders or payments from foreign companies to Belgian shareholders, it is not quite the same. Indeed, according to several experts, dividends in Belgium would in fact be much less taxed than 30%. Thus, according to the BNB, for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, Belgian companies paid €63, 85 and 56 billion respectively in dividends. According to the Finance FPS, the dividend tax revenues for those years are 2.5, 2.7 and 2.2 billion, respectively. In other words, if I calculate correctly, the dividend tax is therefore 4% in 2018, 3.2% in 2019 and 4% in 2020. So you will understand that we are very far from the 30%. Minister, can your administration confirm the numbers I'm making or not making? If so, in view of the State's loss of profits, in the context of the major tax reform that you are responsible for, will the taxation of dividends be studied, in order to finally find a more just solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u100	Minister, in a recent article, the economist Olivier Bonfond of CEPAG looks at the low effective taxation of dividends, in particular - but not only - on the frauds CumCum and CumEx, against which Belgian legislation was tightened in 2019, without completely eliminating fraudulent transactions. As far as the latter are concerned, your passivity is denounced by the Network for Tax Justice (RJF), in a letter addressed to you. He cites a study by the University of Mannheim that you would not consider useful to consult - our dear president asked you about it some time ago - while it amounts to €7.5 billion the budgetary loss for Belgium. It is certainly in 20 years, but it remains at 7.5 billion, it is an impressive amount. The RJF also points to the fact that the FPS Press Officer Finance suggests that not all of the transactions involved would be fraud. Assuming this is the case, it still raises the question of their legitimacy. On the other hand, we can mention the RTD (definitely taxed income) mechanism, which allows very rich shareholders to accumulate huge amounts of dividends in society without such financial income ever seeing the colour of tax. Article d-Olivier Bonfond establishes the relationship between the income from the dividend discount and the amount of dividends distributed by Belgian companies. For 2020, this ratio is 2.2 billion discount compared to 56 billion dividends distributed, at a rate of 3.9%. The report is of the same order for 2018 (4%) and 2019 (3.2 per cent), which is very far from the nominal rate of 30 per cent of the furniture discount. Therefore, my questions are as follows. How do you explain the large difference between the nominal discount rate, 30%, and the actual rate, between 3% and 4%, i.e. ten times less? Can you provide a reconciliation of these two rates by quantifying the different factors explaining the difference? If not, will you order a study to perform such an encryption? Since Mrs Marghem's question last November, has your firm been able to examine the study at the University of Mannheim? What conclusions do you draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm to you the income from the payment of dividends. The FPS Finance does not have statistical data on the total amount of dividends paid during the years 2018 to 2020. Nevertheless, I can report the data for 2021: €66 billion in dividends were paid. The difference cited is due to the amount of dividends paid taxable at the zero rate. Of the €66 billion in dividends paid, €52 billion in dividends were taxed at zero. Revenues from the dividend deposit amounted to 2.8 billion in 2021. The Specific Materials Centre of my administration has no indication that large-scale fraud is taking place. As already announced, I would like to see taboo-free tax reform, including taxation of personal income.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u102	Madam President, I had a problem with the Internet. So I have not heard everything from the minister and I apologize. Minister, I understand you didn't have figures for 2019 and 2020, but for 2021. If that is the case, I am surprised because I do not understand why the administration does not have the figures for 2019 and 2020. I understand that you really want to look at the fair taxation of dividends in your new tax reform, and I can only welcome that. We cannot continue without a fairer tax system. I see you have understood how much our fellow citizens are seeking.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u103	Minister, I did not receive any answers to my questions - as last November, Mrs Marghem - about the study by the University of Mannheim which shows the importance of CumCum and CumEx frauds. With regard to the difference between the effective rate and the nominal rate of the discount, your answer is particularly interesting since you are telling us that, by 2021, out of 66 billion euros of dividends distributed, 52 billion, therefore the vast majority, would be taxed at zero. That's a question! Your answer, however interesting it may be, seems incomplete to me. I would have waited for you to explain the importance of these zero-rate dividends. I will not fail to return to the question, because it is a real scoop that you provide us here! Instead of being taxed at 30%, 52 billion out of 66 were taxed at 0%. Small savers painfully pay a large amount of household discount on their low financial incomes. And, on the other hand, 52 billion people benefit from a zero rate. This suggests that Belgium is a tax haven for some and a tax hell for others.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u104	Madam President, Minister, in Trends we were able to read a critical note recently when you adjusted the regime of all kinds of benefits in terms of making energy available. Before the adjustment, a non-manager was taxed at a flat-rate amount of EUR 1,440. For managers this was 3,190 euros. After the change, the employee will be taxed on the actual value of this benefit, unless the energy is offered in combination with a home. In the latter case, the flat-rate amounts shall still apply. The choice is often made to work with flat rates as this simplifies the collection process. It is difficult to determine the real value of an advantage, and its control is complex and time-intensive. The author of the article argues that the legislative amendment reduces the budgetary impact of the system, but that it increases the complexity, the possibilities of abuse and the control tasks of the administration. By making the regime apply only to those who are more favoured, it also clashes with principles of justice. How do the flat-rate amounts of 3,190 euros, for heating and electricity, and 1,140 euros relate to the estimated average actual cost of the supply of heating, by gas on the one hand and electricity on the other, in the month of December 2021? Is this change of law going towards the broad fiscal reform that you envisage? How can this change be brought into line with the majority proposal in the report of the Supreme Court of Finance? They argue that small, difficult-to-value advantages such as the provision of heat and electricity should be determined on a flat-rate basis, but large and more easily defined benefits such as the provision of housing should be provided according to the actual value. Should not the lump sums be calculated in the future on the basis of variable parameters, so that legislative intervention is not always necessary to adjust these amounts? Why is the distinction between people who may or may not have a private home as an advantage of all kinds a relevant criterion from the point of view of the principle of equality and non-discrimination? Do you consider that the current regime increases the matthew effect of the benefits of all kinds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u105	Mr Vanbesien, according to the CREG on-board tables, on 1 December 2021 the average annual invoice, for an average customer, was EUR 1386 for electricity and EUR 2,780 for gas. The amendment to the implementing decision of the WIB/92 is essentially part of the government agreement which provides for a gradual shift from alternative forms of remuneration to remuneration in euros. As far as your reference to the majority proposal of the Supreme Court of Finance is concerned, I would not consider the benefit of making heating and electricity available free of charge as a small advantage. The question is therefore whether this is an advantage which is difficult to appreciate. In the case of mixed use of a property, the proportion of private use will indeed have to be determined. Such a division must already be made when, for example, a taxable person who enjoys profits or benefits resides in the real estate in which he also pursues his professional activity. I am open to the idea that the flat-rate valuation of the benefit of all kinds of electricity and heating should not just be indexed as it is now, but should be based on a number of parameters such as the evolution of electricity prices and of heating energy sources. I'll ask my administration to investigate that possibility. As regards the criterion of making a house available, it is indeed appropriate to apply the flat-rate valuation in cases where electricity and heating are provided free of charge together with making a house available free of charge, e.g. for concierges. In those cases, the enjoyer of the advantage often has no impact on the energy efficiency of the property which is made available to him or on the contract concluded for the supply of electricity and heating.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u106	Minister, there are some interesting elements in your reply. I am sure it will not be the last time that we will be discussing these matters. I am therefore looking forward to the rapid presentation to Parliament of the results of Professor Delanote's study and your impatiently expected blueprint for a comprehensive tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u107	Madam Chair, Minister, the pandemic has upset our lives. The introspection that it has brought about has prompted some of our fellow citizens to review their habits in a range of areas. Of course, these developments have also affected their portfolio and how they invest their money. In particular, it would appear that the cooperative movement benefits from these changes. In this context, voices – I think, for example, the ASBL Financité – stand up in order to demand a guarantee from the public authorities for investments in cooperatives recognised by the National Cooperation Council. This proposal is based on a 2011 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union that cooperatives comply with specific operating principles which distinguish them from other economic actors and, therefore, the favourable tax measures which would benefit them could not be regarded as state aid. In 2016, a Commission communication confirmed this position. I would add that, in this area, only investments whose repayment value does not exceed that of the subscription would be concerned. In this case, no valuation can be expected. Minister, have you been able to read this proposal? What is your position on this? If so, do you have any alternative suggestions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u108	Mr Ben Achour, I note that the judgment referred to and the Commission communication concern the preferential tax treatment of cooperative companies and do not express themselves on State guarantees. I am not aware of the proposal in question. In any event, such a topic should be discussed in a broader context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u109	Minister, your answer is, to say the least, laconic. I will suggest in particular to the ASBL Financia to contact your firm to try to deepen the topic. In the meantime, I will allow myself to come back to this issue in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u110	Mr Minister, following the historic OECD agreement on the reform of international corporation tax, the two pillars of that agreement must be transposed into European directives. The French Presidency has set an ambitious timeline for this. For Pillar 2, the minimum tax, the European Commission already issued a draft directive in December. The plan is to get it approved in Ecofin by the end of April. For Pillar 1, the burden on digital market giants, the ambition is to finish the texts by July. Politico reported that some countries, such as Hungary, Estonia and Poland, want to keep the two pillars as a package and do not want to approve Pillar 2 before there is agreement on Pillar 1. They want to do that as a political assurance, because it is not certain that the US will get Pillar 1 through Congress. My questions to you are the following. Is Politico's coverage correct? That's why there's countries on the sidelines? What are your views on the concerns of these countries and the possible non-implementation of Pillar 1 by the United States? There is no link between the two pillars in the coalition agreement. Will you continue to defend the rapid implementation of Pillar 2 in Ecofin?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u111	Within the EU meeting, some Member States stressed the importance of timing, and in particular the need to adopt the measures under Pillar 2 when there is also an agreement on Pillar 1. Planning at international level provides for an agreement on the regulation of both pillars by mid-year at the latest. As the United States is actively participating, I see no reason to be concerned at the moment about the implementation of Pillar 1. The proposal for a directive on Pillar 2 in the Council of the European Union's Working Party on Taxation is now under negotiation. In parallel, the OECD is continuing its work on commenting on the GLOBE model rules of Pillar 2, as well as on the texts for Pillar 1 for which a multilateral treaty is planned. The timing for the final elaboration of the rules and implementation by early 2023 is and remains ambitious but is still supported by Belgium. Given this state of affairs, it is not yet possible to present an accurate impact analysis for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for this clarifying answer. I understand that we are still on course, and I look forward with you to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u113	Madam President, as a member of the Energy Committee, you may also be personally interested in this oral question. Mr Minister, we note that the spirits are on the move, especially after this morning the united employers of Belgium, if I may put it that way, have made a plea for common sense, which means that Plan B will hopefully be adopted on 18 March. My question is in that context. On 2 February, the European Commission adopted in principle an additional delegated climate action which, although subject to strict conditions, includes specific nuclear and gas activities in the list of economic activities covered by EU taxonomy. At European level, too, I see a growing understanding of what I call common sense. The criteria for specific gas and nuclear activities should be in line with the EU's climate and environmental objectives and will help accelerate the transition from solid or liquid fossil fuels, including coal, to a climate-neutral future, according to the Commission. The strict conditions are basically simple. Activities should contribute to a transition to climate neutrality. Gas activities must contribute to the transition from coal to renewable energy sources. The European Commission has not gone ice in one night. Targeted adjustments to the technical screening criteria and disclosure and verification requirements have been made. Investors will therefore have to make a properly considered choice, but that choice can now be made. What is the Belgian Government's position on this, Minister? We are now in a period of scrutiny of this additional delegated act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u114	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, on 2 February, the European Commission published the additional delegated climate action concerning the treatment of gas and nuclear activities under taxonomy. In accordance with the usual procedure, that delegated act will be formally submitted to the European Council and the European Parliament. They have four months to examine the document, which is called the scrutiny period. If they consider it necessary, they may object and reject the document. The Council can do so by a reinforced qualified majority of Member States, the European Parliament needs a majority of its members. We are currently waiting for the official kick-off of that review period. This will come from the availability of the official translations of the text. Once the four-month period has started, the Belgian position will be determined by the standard DGE procedure. All relevant departments and entities will be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u115	Thank you for this technical answer, Minister. The procedure has not yet been formally launched, but there must be a qualified majority within the European Council. So, of course, it's gonna be exciting. Everything seems to be coming together. The spirits are also ripening in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u116	Madam President, Minister, the press has reported that more and more Belgians are making a complaint after receiving their warning-extract. The year 2020 would have been a record in this regard, as more than 72,000 Belgians would have filed a complaint and, in almost 45% of cases, the complainants would have been successful. While, on the one hand, we can welcome the transparency applied by the FPS Finances and the correct tax treatment of taxpayers, on the other hand, we cannot rule out a link that would exist between the decline in the number of people employed by the tax administration in recent years and the increase in the workload of staff in order to explain in part the increase in the number of complaints. All the more so since, for these 72,000 declarations, the work had to be done twice. Minister, can you confirm the figures relayed by the press? What is the analysis made by your administration in this context? Shouldn't the number of FPS Finance officers assigned to the analysis of peer-reviewed warnings be increased to avoid this duplication of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u117	Mr Bayet, the General Administration of Taxation recorded 72,074 new claims during 2020. There is no direct link between the downsizing of the tax administration and the increase in the number of claims. Many of the claims result from a failure by the taxpayer to include a particular in its return. The tax administration does not always have this information and therefore cannot pre-fill the declaration with this data, nor can it integrate this data at the time of enrolment, for example in the case of liberalities. The information received does not include the number of the national register of the taxpayer and the quality of the information does not always allow the taxpayer responsible for the exemption to be found at the time of the control of the declaration. In many cases, the number of claims could certainly be reduced by improving the quality of the data received by the administration. Initiatives to this end have already been adopted, for example in the area of tax advantages for child care costs, for which a specific form has been drawn up. My administration is looking at other avenues to improve the quality of the data transmitted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u118	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Once again, we can see your administration's willingness to act as best as possible to help our fellow citizens, and I certainly welcome that. All the leads you've just told me are going in the right direction. In your opinion, many problems would arise, among other things, from liberalities. I'll take note of that. However, I would like to remind you, minister, that they are only possible by agreement from your department. We should therefore think with the bodies that can grant them to a system that can avoid working on 72,000 cases – even if they are not all about liberalities. In any case, it is possible to remedy it and I count on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u119	Madam President, Minister, the model attestation for the tax relief for childcare was published in the Belgian Official Journal at the end of January. The accompanying circular appeared last week. In itself, the new system is simple for families, because they do not have to add the certificates anymore, the child care organiser makes the certificates according to the model and then passes them on to the FPS Finance. It is a simplification, but there are a number of points that need to be addressed. One of the questions raised concerns the situation when a child uses two reception initiatives in one day, for example one in the morning and one after school. Each reception initiative shall, of course, make a certificate and the certificate shall state the periods and amounts, without specific indication of the days. This makes it difficult for the taxpayer to assess whether or not the amount per day, currently EUR 14, is being exceeded and whether the simple declaration still needs to be corrected. Do you confirm this problem? Are there opportunities or initiatives to meet this? My second question concerns timing. Childcare organisers must provide the certificates before 1 March. Is there any way this is gonna be abandoned? Or do you, if not structuralally, provide for a tolerance for the first year? Finally, it is a very new working method. It is a good thing, because it simplifies the situation, but the organisers of childcare do need information. You have clearly taken the initiative in the circular to mention one unique e-mail address where one can go for all questions. Are there any other initiatives planned to communicate with the organisations and associations concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u120	The certificate shall be drawn up by the authority receiving the child. When a child is received on the same day by different authorities, they have in principle no knowledge of this. In such a situation, parents should verify the maximum amount per babysitting day and apply a restriction where appropriate. The administration would only be able to implement this limitation itself if it received a complete detail of the cost of care for each child on a day-care basis and for each authority. The provision of such a detail would give rise to an unreasonable administrative burden on the reception authorities. In order to reduce the administrative burden on the reception authorities, the mandatory certificate is fully in line with the model attestation previously proposed by the administration. The administration does not intend to fill in these data for the tax year 2022 in advance, as reception authorities are not obliged to transmit these data electronically for reception activities that took place in 2021. Since this possibility exists, if some of the authorities can provide the information, the certificate in MyMinfin will be made available to the taxable person concerned. The administration will examine how it will deal with the problem identified, in the context of the future implementation and development of online assistance in Tax-on-web. For the reception activities that took place before 27 January 2022, it is not yet mandatory to use the new model attestation and to deliver the data electronically to the administration, but it may be voluntary. The reception authorities therefore have another year to prepare themselves for this electronic transmission. The actors in the field known to the administration were invited to an information meeting held on 19 November 2021. The description of the content of certificate 281.86 and the method of dispatch via Belcotax-on-web were fully explained. The meeting ended with a question and answer session. This information meeting also provided detailed documentation which was added to the section on technical documentation of Belcotax-on-web. The documents specific to attestation 281.86 can be consulted on the FPS Finance website.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The fact and the premise of reducing the administrative burden for both organisers and parents is a good starting point. It's good to hear that's what they're looking at. Furthermore, as far as 2022 is concerned, it will not be pre-filled on the declaration and there has also been consultation with the actors in the field. I would like to make an additional appeal to that effect. Besides the classical actors, there are also many associations with active volunteers who ultimately work with certificates. It might be interesting to achieve it in other ways, for example by providing a low-threshold webinar and distributing it through local authorities, so that everyone is immediately on board with what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u122	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 55025362C and 55025364C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u123	Minister, a few months ago, in writing, I asked you about the persistent rumours about the closure of the Fedorest restaurant in Malmedy. Your answer confirmed the concerns of the staff, as you indicated that Fedorest was in the long run considering "centralizing the production of meals in a limited number of large communities". That perspective alone was regrettable. It is, however, information of a completely different magnitude that a favourable wind has brought to me. It would be planned to close the entire FPS Finance offices in Malmedy by the end of 2024. It is written black and white in the proposal of Plan Infra-Horizon 2024 currently on the table. It seems, moreover, that Malmedy is not the only location concerned. The development of this plan in the midst of a pandemic and telework period, while the functioning of the administration is affected, is not surprising. I cannot help but draw a parallel with the experiences of some of the employees of Neufchâteau who had been announced here shortly, and suddenly, via a video conference, the departure for Arlon of their recording service. The province of Luxembourg and the south-east of the province of Liège belong to the same geographical reality: the Ardenne, where distances are long and public transport is not or not developed, although it is the most beautiful region of Belgium - that goes without saying. It is therefore illusory to think that this decision, if confirmed, would have no impact on workers, taxpayers and, quite simply, on the accessibility of public services for a whole section of the population. Minister, my questions will be very direct. Do you confirm that the closure of the Malmedy site is being considered? Are there other locations involved? If so, how many offices does it represent in total? Finally, how many staff members are involved and what mobility solutions are provided for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u124	Mr Ben Achour, Plan Infra-Horizon 2024 was submitted to staff representatives last week. It concerns the whole organization of my administration and, in particular, the use of 21 buildings. However, specific services may still be maintained in the municipalities concerned. A total of 1,473 employees are involved, although there is no loss of employment. The cleaning staff and the Fedorest staff will receive a proposal for reassignment, while Protocol 100 will be applied to the staff of the general administrations concerned. This protocol provides for the possibility, under certain conditions, of being reassigned to a place closer to home. The Infra-Horizon Plan 2024 incorporates as its parameters recent experience in teleworking, as well as the presence of public transport and contractual commitments. As regards Malmedy in particular, the closure of the building is envisaged in the short term. It goes without saying that the unions will be consulted in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u125	Minister, you are confirming bad news. It's never nice, I imagine, to say, or to receive. I think that we will have to work actively on mobility solutions, avoid any loss of employment and really think about the deployment of public service in rural areas that also need it for their vitality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u126	Mr. Minister, the judgment of the Court of Justice No. 84/2021 of the Constitutional Court destroys Articles 2 and 3 of the Law of 14 October 2018 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights with a view to reforming the Registry Rights for certain applicants. A circular was drawn up with the consequences of the Constitutional Court's annulment judgment. An important passage in this is the following: "The judgment commented on gives rise to a right to request a refund of the role rights already paid by the persons seeking the judgment and to lodge an objection in the event of incorrect transmission of a payment notice following the annulment judgment." The staff of the Registry may not proactively identify persons who may benefit from a refund or object. Such identification is technically impossible because the Registrars have no element at their disposal to determine the means of existence of persons seeking enforcement. In addition, the accounts of the Registrys are closed each month. In accordance with the principle of good administration, the General Administration of the Patrimony Documentation has drawn up a circular to explain to those who may have been affected by the judgment on destruction the rights which the judgment creates under those persons seeking justice, as well as the steps they must take to enforce their rights. Thus, the government chooses not to proactively make a refund, but puts the initiative to ask for reimbursement from the citizen. Not everyone has a computer or regularly looks at circulars. How will citizens be informed about this circular? They are often citizens who already have financial difficulties and who are difficult to live by. They must now also collect a whole series of documents and carry out certain formalities to apply for reimbursement themselves. Are they being helped in this? Where can they go for help? The circular states that the Registry cannot proactively identify persons. If the government has made a mistake, is it not normal for it to try to correct that error, especially now that it may not be about such a large number of citizens, given the limitations provided for in the judgment? Is it not possible to contact the citizens who are entitled to do so themselves and automatically refund the amount due?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u127	Mr Segers, the FPS Finance has drawn up this circular in collaboration with the FPS Justice Department. Together with the section 'Frequently asked questions and answers', this circular was published on the website Fisconetplus of the FPS Finance and recently it was also published on the website of the College of Courts and Courts. Applicants may contact the Legal Assistance Office to obtain free assistance through a pro-Deo attorney, who may ensure that his client fulfils all the conditions necessary to qualify for a refund or for the lodging of an objection. In addition, justice seekers may also apply to the courthouses. Neither the staff of the Registry nor the staff of the FPS Finance Office have the information allowing the identification of the persons seeking the annulment of the judgment. Moreover, the use and exchange of the national register number of the judges between the Registrys and my administration raises legal problems with regard to the protection of personal data and the respect of the general data protection regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic701x.u128	Thank you, Minister.
