ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u1	Minister, over the past decade there have been several crises in which the use of the Urgent Medical Assistance Service and its resources were important. We remember the train crash near Wetteren, the pile-up on the A19 or the attacks of 22 March 2016, and, recently, the floods of 2021. When announcing the Medical Intervention Plan (MIP) by the relief centre, all the disciplines involved must work together in order to combat the issue of calamity as optimally as possible. The federal health inspector is on the scene the representative of the government. He succeeds the incident from an advisory role and reports afterwards to the competent authorities. Lessons for future disasters should be learned from the follow-up. Is a uniform reporting and a standard debriefing provided by the FPS Public Health? If so, with which actors? Is it the responsibility of the federal health inspector? Is there systematic provision for a standardised evaluation after each announcement of the MIP? Are these evaluations consultable?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u2	In the 2018 Operational Plan, the Urgent Assistance Service launched a project on structured and harmonised reporting after incidents. This includes not only the formatting of a reporting indicator set. The automation of delivery of these indicators is also an objective. The development of a knowledge centre on psychosocial aid must be the final piece. The project was confronted with the failure of the project leader shortly after the start-up. After that, the covid crisis broke out and everyone was mobilized to manage that crisis. It was not until 2021 that Selor recruited additional profiles necessary for the start-up of the knowledge centre. The structured and harmonised debriefing is therefore not yet a reality, but it is being worked on. Despite the lack of structured reporting, the Urgent Assistance Service continues to use a post-incident approach. In addition to the knowledge building from our own incidents and unfolding, feedback and experiences of international incidents are also used. For example, a reflection workshop within the service after the attacks in Paris led to an adjustment of their own emergency plans, which unfortunately proved useful during the attack in Brussels and Zaventem. The latest versions of the medical intervention plan and the psychosocial intervention plan, published in the Official Journal in early 2017, provide for the gradual scaling-up of the plans, ranging from a pre-alarm to a maxiversion of the plans. In the case of a mere proclamation of a pre-alarm, the reporting could be limited to merely recording the fact that there has been a proclamation. A scaling-up may require a multidisciplinary or multidisciplinary follow-up. The contribution of the federal health inspector, supported, inter alia, by data and reporting from the aid centres 112, will often form the basis for reporting. Depending on the type of reporting, it is purely consultable within the Emergency Assistance Service, within the Public Health Office, within the evaluation and/or security cell of the administrative level, i.e. the municipality, the province, or possibly the National Crisis Centre, up to the working documents of our own Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u3	Minister, I hear that not everything has worked out. Although I fully understand that the covid pandemic has thrown soot into the food, it seems logical to me that, in the event of a calamity standard, there should be a debriefing, the findings of which are also exchanged as widely as possible. After all, it is a central task of the government to ensure the safety of the population. Lessons from what happened is very important. In the event of unexpected events, it is always improvising. We are doing the best we can, but if we do not immediately draw the right lessons and do not quickly spread them to all those who may be involved in the management of a calamity, then I find that problematic. I hear here and there that there is still a lack of debriefing, feedback, and drawing the necessary lessons. This has been demonstrated by the covid crisis, and I hope that lessons have already been learned from it, but this is equally true of other emergencies and threats to our public health. We can never be 100 % prepared, but we do have control over whether we take the necessary lessons out of it. I would therefore urge that this be done as quickly as possible, in a standardised manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u4	Minister, we have noticed a shortage of painkillers for children in the pharmacy for some time. Certain painkillers, such as Perdolan and Neurofen, do not enter or enter with small amounts. Meanwhile, the antibiotic syrup Amoxicillin is also not available. It's really helping out for my fellow chemists. Are you aware of the shortage of painkillers? Were you in contact with the sector? What are the causes of these inaccessibilitys? By when would that deficit be eliminated? What is the status of the Royal Decrees to be drawn up following the Missing Medicines Act, which was adopted on 2 February 2020? What is the state of play for that royal decision and for the royal decision on the substitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u5	Mrs Depoter, there is indeed a shortage of some medicines based on ibuprofen and paracetamol for use in children. There are always alternatives available. With regard to the medicinal products based on paracetamol, there is a shortage of certain suppositories, but all syrups are available again. There are some other strengths of suppository available, but not enough to compensate for all shortages. However, it is possible to switch to the available syrups or, for larger children, to tablets or other oral forms. The pharmacist can also prepare suppositories with paracetamol Magistrate, but you know that, of course, and also a switch to a medicine based on ibuprofen is possible. For medicines containing ibuprofen, there is a shortage of syrups. In addition, there is currently only one other specialty unavailable, being the chewable tablets. For small children, i.e. children from 6 kg to 20 kg, there are a number of syrups and suppository available and can also be switched to a medicine with paracetamol. For larger children, starting at 20 kg, there are more alternatives. A number of syrups, suppository, swallow tablets and soluble form are available and a drug containing paracetamol can also be switched to. The reasons for the deficits are increased demand and a slowdown in production. The expected end dates are between 10 June and 17 October 2022. You also asked about the royal decision on the substitution. The decision was prepared and sent to the Council of State for advice. We received the opinion of the Council of State on 6 May. The texts shall be adapted accordingly. Then this will continue its course, preferably as soon as possible, to the budget, the Council of Ministers, the signature by the King and the publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is good news that the royal decree, 2.5 years after the vote of the law, will eventually take shape. That is certainly a good thing for patients and also for pharmacists. This will create the much-needed legal framework. Mr Minister, the implementation of the Royal Decree which will regulate the reimbursement of any additional costs for patients is also a point of reference which you should certainly take into account, because, once again, this law was passed 2.5 years ago. What you are saying about the painkillers that are missing, I would nevertheless like to point out that magically made suppositories are much more expensive for the patient. There you should look at a nomenclature or a reimbursement for the patient. Sometimes the child really doesn't have the ability to take the syrup. The answer to this high cost must then be sought. It would also be good to sit with the producers on this issue. You know that there have been a lot of generics going off the market for two years. This also has to do with the economic situation we are in. I think we should provide an answer for a lot of medicines. Perdolan Paracetamol is a cheap medicine. This needs to be considered so that our patients can be helped at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u7	Madam President, erythropoietic protoporphyria, abbreviated EPP, is a rare disease, affecting approximately 80 patients, according to the Commission's opinion Medication Medicines, at least according to an observation made in 2019. The phototoxicity associated with the disease makes these patients not tolerate sunlight. Scenesse is a medicine with an implant component, authorised by the EEA for the European market in 2014. This medicinal product was authorised under exceptional circumstances. The EEA indicated that there were no scientific tests to measure a beneficial effect on phototoxicity. This was studied in practical studies in the following years, including programmes of compassionate use abroad. You ask whether, given the status of ultra orphan disease, the EEA advice will be considered sufficient or whether, as in the past, I will ask for additional clinical studies. It is not just an ultra orphan medicine, it is also an exceptional market licence. This means that not all questions about Scenesse's benefit/risk were answered in 2014. This was further investigated in the years after 2014, with a post-marketing surveillance program, which also investigated efficacy. I insist on that for the following reason. Post-marketing surveillance is usually about safety, but the efficacy has also been reviewed here. In 2020, the manufacturer obtained a scientific technical advice from the FAGG on the state of play of the data collected on the ground. There are indications that encourage restraint. For example, I would like to mention the Haute Autorité de Santé in Paris, which scaled the effect of Scenesse in the therapeutic arsenal as a minor in 2020. Minor is a level four. It based itself on the 2014 registration data and additional data since then. You also asked whether the company had submitted an application in the meantime. In 2019-2020, an application for reimbursement from Scenesse was submitted to the Commission for a meeting of Medicines. The CTG, like the Haute Autorité de Santé, saw little added value of this medicine with implant. That was the position taken by the Committee on Medicines in 2020. Following the preliminary evaluation report, the manufacturer withdrew the application. As a reason, the manufacturer indicated that consideration is being given internally to submitting a second dossier containing more clinical data. Until today, that second application file isn't in. I have asked the Committee on Medicinal Products to inform me when it comes in. In the meantime, you ask if any other treatments for EPP have been approved for reimbursement. Unfortunately, no other therapy for EPP has been approved or reimbursed at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u8	Minister, your last sentence is, in a sense, the essence, there is no treatment for those patients. Indeed, it is not a large number of patients, but the disease is particularly crippling. Those people can't get out and they can't go to work. In countries where Scenesse is paid back, these patients can go to work and participate in social life. Maybe that drug isn't the best way to cure those people. Healing is impossible at all. In France, the medicine was scaled at level 4 in terms of effectiveness. But still, it's patients who have to stay inside because they can't bear the sun. That's actually horrible, because they're being isolated, cut off from society. For this reason, I find it particularly interesting to know that our organisations, the CTG and the FAGG, have asked for additional guarantees from the company in the discussion in 2019. Ethically, it is almost irresponsible to impose additional clinical studies. The EEA has also given a positive opinion. I therefore invite you to monitor this dossier very carefully and to create hope for those patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u9	Mr Minister, this question concerns the results of the investigation into the effect of rubber granulate in artificial turf fields, for example the fields on which hockey is played. In the Committee on Health of 8 March 2022 we discussed a doctoral study at the Vrije Universiteit van Amsterdam. The study investigated the potential harmfulness of rubber granulate, which is often used as a scattering material for the artificial turf fields. You indicated that you would look closely at the study. You expected the results at the end of April or early May 2022. I would have liked to have heard the conclusions from you. After examining the study, has a conclusion been reached on the harmfulness of rubber granulate? To what extent would adverse health effects be caused? Are studies on these effects carried out by other institutions or administrations? If not, is that provided for? What are the possible consequences for young people who today work on rubber granulates, often fall, suffer abrasions and thus come into contact with rubber granulate? Should steps be taken or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u10	Madam President, the REACH Scientific Committee has analysed the PhD study to which you refer. It is preparing an opinion on the study in question. However, the finalisation of the opinion has been delayed and no final conclusions can yet be communicated. When the opinion is finished, it will of course be published on the Belgian REACH website, where it can also be consulted publicly. For a first but not final conclusion of the REACH Scientific Committee, I would like to refer you to my answer to an oral question by your colleague Moyaers. You also ask to what extent there are adverse health effects. I would like to stress that the PhD study in question focuses on analytical methods for measuring packaging or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in rubber materials. So there is no new toxicological insights into this paper. That said, several analyses have already been carried out on the health effects of packs by other research institutes. According to recital 5 of Regulation 2021/1199 of the European Commission of 20 July 2021, when establishing a restriction on packaging in rubber granulate in sports fields, it was concluded that "The most worrying endpoint for human health for these eight packs is carcinogenicness and the ability to cause genotoxic effects. For non-threshold carcinogens, no dose without a theoretical risk of cancer can be derived. Therefore, the concentrations of the eight packs in granules should be as low as possible for use as artificial grass fields and in granulate or mulch in loose form for playgrounds or espionage applications." For an extensive analysis, I would like to refer you to the opinions issued by the ECHA Scientific Committee, in particular the Committee for Risk Assessment (RAC). You also ask whether investigations are being carried out by other institutions and, if not, whether this is foreseen in the future. Various risk analyses have already been carried out at European level on packs. For more information on this, please refer to the RAC's opinions on this matter and to the Annex XV reports prepared for packs. In a recently published Constraintions Roadmap of the European Commission, there is a REACH restriction proposal on the planning of packaging in rubber granulate used in children's playgrounds or for domestic use, for example in the garden. This is the result of an explicit demand from Belgium to further investigate the use in playgrounds and gardens. I would also like to refer you to my regional colleagues for more information on any actions they are taking or are planning with regard to the effects of rubber granulate. Fourthly, you ask what the possible consequences of the current use of rubber granulate are and you refer, for example, to sports grounds. Studies on exposure to potentially harmful substances mainly concern biomonitoring studies. Such studies are mainly carried out by the regional authorities. I therefore propose that you contact the regional colleagues to check whether research or action is planned within their competence on the consequences of the use of rubber granulate in sports grounds. Finally, you ask whether steps are being taken in the short and/or long term. During the campaigns, the FPS inspection services did not detect any infractions on the current legislative framework for rubber granulate packs based on the limit value of the new REACH restriction, in particular 20 milligrams per kilogram of the above-mentioned packs. Furthermore, the administration of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment will continue to monitor closely the development of REACH restrictions and CLP classifications around rubber granulate packs and will continue to defend the ambitious position during the negotiations in order to minimise exposure to dangerous substances in rubber granulate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u11	Is it true that the new REACH restriction still needs to be framed, that it still needs to be determined?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u12	I think it's already there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u13	Then I do not understand why Belgium wants to impose restrictions on children's playgrounds and domestic use, and not on sports organisations, for example. The number of artificial turf fields has increased substantially in recent years in this country. That is why, from the point of view of public health, we must ensure that, as you say, there is as little contact as possible with carcinogenic substances. A threshold should be set as low as possible, because, I repeat, children and young people who work on artificial turf fields sometimes fall. There will be direct contact, blood contact, with the powders in question. That is absolutely a point of attention. It is good that it is being worked on, but we will have to keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u14	I haven't said it yet, but the 20 mg/kg comes from Commission Regulation 2021/1199, published on 20 July 2021, almost a year ago. You are right: this must be followed closely. It would be good if your regional colleagues also contact the regional authorities, because they too can take action within their competence on the use of rubber granulate in sports grounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u15	We'll pass that on then. You can do that at an inter-ministerial conference, but we can do it both ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u16	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u17	Minister, the first mHealthapp level 3 of the validation pyramid recently appeared. The evaluation of that application is carried out by a working group. How are the applications evaluated? What criteria are used? Are there any decisive factors that determine whether an app is eligible for reimbursement or not? Which ones are they? What budget is foreseen for the reimbursement of mHealthapps? How will the funding be provided through the RIZIV budget? Which applications are still eligible for level 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u18	Ms Gijbels, since January 2021 there has been a procedure whereby a producer or distributor of a mHealthapp passes through a three-level validation pyramid. Levels M1 and M2 should ensure aspects such as system security and data security and interoperability with existing software systems. In particular, the FAGG and the eHealth platform play an important role there. The level M3 can be achieved through an application for integration into a healthcare model. That application should be submitted to the RIZIV. For this purpose, the producer or distributor must submit a notification file. A specific working group, composed, inter alia, of independent experts and representatives of the healthcare providers, insurance institutions and patients concerned, shall be composed and assess the submitted dossier on the clinical evidence, on the possible integration into the care process, which shall be an aspect of feasibility assessment and the possible improvement and or addition to current practice. So the question is, is there added value? There is, of course, also the aspect of the budgetary impact. On the basis of that evaluation, the specific working group will submit a positive or negative opinion to the Insurance Committee for inclusion in the compensation system. The Insurance Committee shall decide, on the basis of this opinion, whether to develop an integration of the mobile application into the reimbursement system and shall instruct the bodies concerned to do so. An evaluation of the M1 and M2 levels is ongoing, so that in the future there is certainty and clarity about the data relating to safety and interoperability when the file is notified to the RIZIV. This will allow future specific working groups to focus on evaluating socio-economic added value. In order to distinguish between temporary and structural funding, the level M3 was divided into two levels, M3 and M3+. The financing of, for example, the moveUP Coach app, which is used in rehabilitation after knee and hip surgery, is carried out as part of a study for which the first patients were included in January 2021. The funding is therefore temporary in nature and the app has been given the M3 level. Regarding the level M3+, where structural funding is possible, the insurance committee has commissioned the adaptation of the care path oncology and the convention sleep apnea, so that it is possible to use the health applications within these care processes. Once these projects are completed, both the app providers who submitted the application, such as the firme ResMed with the AirView product for telemonitoring of sleep apnea, as well as the providers of similar apps, will be able to demonstrate that their apps meet the conditions and obtain the M3+ label. MHealthBelgium is the collaboration between the government and industry on the validation pyramid. This cooperation is laid down in a protocol agreement. Further information about the validation pyramid, the apps and the procedures can be found on the website of MHealthBelgium. You also ask if there are decisive factors that determine whether an app is eligible for reimbursement or not. Socio-economic added value is absolutely essential for obtaining a positive opinion. In addition, data security and interoperability with existing software systems are considered necessary. You also ask questions about the budget and the financing. On the basis of the applications already received, two types of applications can be distinguished. On the one hand, there are applications that make it possible to perform a certain remote action, which would otherwise have to be carried out from, for example, the hospital. These applications are often based on budget neutrality or even savings. On the other hand, there are applications that offer an extra modality, such as a follow-up that would not otherwise take place. These apps, of course, bring a budgetary cost. However, MHealth applications are not financed individually. They will be placed within an existing, modified or new care process. A global funding will then be provided for this care process, after which the healthcare provider or healthcare institution concerned may use part of this budget to finance this app. Within this care process, specific criteria will be established that apps should meet. Only the apps that meet this requirement may apply for the M3+ label and therefore qualify for reimbursement. MHealth apps, like digital health and telemedicine in general, are seen as an integral part of the health model. There is therefore no specific budget for the financing of health applications. The global funding of the care process is provided through the relevant channels. You asked which applications are still eligible for level 3. There is now a pilot project telemonitoring covid. Different applications are used. These could theoretically obtain the M3 label. This pilot project telemonitoring covid will end at the end of June, as foreseen, after which a generic framework for telemonitoring will be set up. In addition, two applications for integration into the healthcare model have already been dealt with. They have both led to a positive opinion. As already mentioned, the Insurance Committee has therefore commissioned the adaptation of the care path oncology and the convention sleep apnea. In addition, the digital part will also be taken into account in the review of other care processes. It is therefore possible that care processes will be defined within which health apps will be used, without an explicit application by a company.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u19	Minister, your answer was enlightening. My impression of those mHealthapps and the evaluation criteria used was that it was not very clear. I hope that this will be done, because terms such as security and interoperability are vague. I hope that a level playing field will certainly be monitored. After all, I believe in the future of such apps, not only because they are budget-neutral or can even have a beneficial impact on the health budget, but also because they can improve quality, because they follow patients better and can call them to hospital in the right way. This will enable efficient spending of resources to be carried out. The Knowledge Centre has now issued a first report on the telemonitoring of covid patients. The only consideration I have, and which is mentioned in it, is that we are still far from integrated care. I believe that mHealth apps can only be truly profitable if a care network is created around each patient, where both the data and the applications as well as the entire patient communication is much more streamlined than is currently the case. In our group's view, the large threshold is still the fragmentation of powers. Once again, I would like to call for the first steps to be taken quickly to transfer care to the communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u20	Mrs De Block being absent, I give you the floor, Mrs H annoyance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u21	Madam President, Minister, in May 2021 an agreement was reached with the National Joint Medical Hospital Commission to improve the working conditions and social protection of medical specialists in training. The agreement included a basic minimum wage, allowances for callable guards, a framework for the preparation and transparent communication of working hours, a series of improvements in social protection and working conditions: full-time employment (for work and training) which was to amount to 48 hours per week. With the guards, it can amount to 60 hours a week. This agreement was to enter into force for this academic year 2021-2022. And yet, it is up to me that at the KUL, student trainees must sign an agreement that is very free to depart from the rules in force under this new agreement. I quote: "The working hours per week may not exceed 72 hours. The average working time of 48 hours is the legal standard and is calculated in a reference period of 13 weeks. The extension to 60 hours is possible and will be strongly recommended by the faculty, in order to achieve the objectives of successful internship training. Each student-student must confirm in writing via an opt-out signed in the declaration. The 48 or 60 hours are an average maximum. Working less than 48 or 60 hours is not a problem if the objectives are achieved". This document shows that the university leaves little choice for students to give up their rights mentioned in the new agreement and recommends that students take more hours to achieve the faculty's success goals. Minister, in general, how have you been able to verify that the new agreement is in place in all universities? I saw that audits were taking place. This practice remains in the spirit that prevailed before this agreement. What is your analysis of the situation? What do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u22	Minister, I am speaking on the same issue. I hear my colleague's revelations about KUL. For my part, I had read that the implementation of the new internship agreement was not going well in some services. Thus, a young assistant of a Brussels hospital testifies to the way in which the assistants are, in a way, punished, because because of them, the cost-effectiveness of the hospital is in danger and they can no longer afford too many hours. She is sent back at 5 p.m. precisely, while, for example, something interesting, as part of her internship, could happen with pressure at work that is also important. On 30 March, Le Soir published an article on ongoing inspections on compliance with social laws in a Brussels hospital. They noted that, if I understood correctly, the new convention had not been applied. Minister, how was the implementation of this convention monitored this year? Have you had any contact with MACS on the application of the new convention by different universities and hospitals? Have you had an echo of persistent abuse? Can you provide more information on the ongoing investigations into the Brussels Labour Auditorate? Have you been able to talk about this at the National Joint Medical-Hospital Commission? How many times has she met? Are the assistants also entitled to vote? Has this been implemented? How do you assess the follow-up to the agreement made last year? Are you moving forward with this committee, as promised, in a more structural reform? One thinks, of course, of weekly benefits, like any Belgian, of 38 hours per week, but also of compliance with contributions to enable them to benefit from pension and unemployment insurance among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u23	Colleagues, first of all, I must point out that the collective agreement is based on the law of December 12, 2010. This Act lays down the rules and limits on the maximum weekly working time of medical specialists in training. This legislation falls within the competence of my colleague, Minister Dermagne. Monitoring compliance with this law is also the responsibility of its departments, in particular the Social Inspectorate. Individual cases of violations of labour law may be referred to the social inspectorate. In fact, special attention is paid to the problem of working conditions of specialist doctors. Several labour auditors have already initiated investigations. To the extent that complaints have been filed, I find it an excellent thing. I myself have told the medical specialists in training who are concerned that if they think there are abuses, they must mobilise social inspection. The passage you are quoting, Mrs H annoyance, appears in a document of the KU Leuven and summarises in broad terms the rules of the law of 12 December 2010, which I quoted. There is no mistake in this passage in itself. However, the pressure on the trained physician to sign the opt-out clause raises questions. Such a clause allows for a maximum of 12 additional hours of work per week. Nevertheless, the physician in training must voluntarily accept this clause. Although it is difficult to know whether or not the opt-out clause has been signed voluntarily, the principle seems very important to me. The National Joint Medical-Hospital Commission monitors the collective agreement of 19 May 2021. Application problems are discussed between representatives of medical specialists in training, representatives of trainee teachers, through medical unions, and representatives of hospitals, including university hospitals. I can give you a summary of the last evaluation of the collective agreement that the Joint Committee has delivered to me. That's a letter dated March 16th. This report shows that a number of problems of application of the law and regulation continue to arise. The settlement of sick and leave days in the context of the calculation of the maximum working time continues to cause discussion on the ground. According to the representatives of the ASOs in the committee, the provisions on scientific and study leave in the field are applied very restrictively. Another problem is the automatic deduction of lunch break in the calculation of working time, while ASOs are sometimes not in a position to take an effective lunch break. As agreed last year when the collective agreement was concluded, a budget of EUR 30 million has been made available to finance the possible additional cost of this agreement. That budget is indeed allocated through the budget of the hospitals' financial resources. The hospitals received an advance on 1 January this year, pending the publication of the final rules in a royal decree, which was calculated in proportion to the number of candidate specialists internship with a recognised internship master in a hospital or in a specific internship with a coordinating internship master. Soon the KB will be published in the Belgian Official Journal which lays down the final rules of the game. The distribution of the budget between hospitals will be based on a fixed flat rate per vte ASO, regardless of seniority. This flat rate is determined on the basis of the closed envelope of EUR 30 million. Moreover, a condition is attached to receiving the funding, namely that the hospital uses contracts with the ASOs which correspond to the model agreement agreed last year within the National Joint Committee on Medicine. That will be a powerful weapon to achieve compliance. The National Joint Committee on Medicine-Hospitals has been reconstituted with a permanent representation of the ASOs and of university hospitals. The public tender for an independent time registration tool was published. That is the practical solution we have sought to make enforcement much more effective. It took some time to work that out. It'll come. The public tender has been published. Finally, the Committee pointed out that better social protection for the ASOs also includes aspects which do not fall within the remit of this committee, such as retirement and unemployment benefits. As far as pension-building is concerned, I would like to remind you that doctors-trainers still enjoy an increased social status for their pension-building of EUR 6,351,21 per year, provided, of course, that they respect the rates of the convention. It is not evident, in all honesty, that it can do much better by integrating into the existing pension system. In itself, if correctly applied, the increased social status is a relatively favourable system, I dare say. That leads me to conclude that perhaps the most pressing problem is the problem of unemployment benefits. There is no modification of the nomenclature in relation to possible infringements of the working time of doctors-specialists in training. In reply to your questions, I gave an overview of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are moderately reassuring. During the various hearings conducted in committee during the health crisis of the Covid-19, how many testimonies have we not heard denouncing working conditions, overtime and burn outs that put patients and doctors at risk? It was felt that the conclusion of this agreement would lead to the inclusion of hospitals and doctors, to a cultural change in the way in which training was organised. I feel it's still complicated and the path will be very long. However, a new approach is needed in order to initiate a series of reforms, particularly with regard to the overall funding of hospitals. This remains very worrying. The work must continue and we must maintain a very strong pressure to ensure, at a minimum, that these conditions are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u25	Mr Minister, from your answer, I would point out that you will not pay those amounts to hospitals that do not use the model agreement. If what our colleague says is true, can we assume that, for example, the KUL would get nothing? At least that's how I interpret your words. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u26	As far as the KUL is concerned, I have given a more cautious and nuanced answer, on which I do not wish to express myself here and now. However, the principle is clear and must be maintained. Mrs H annoyance, you have summed it up perfectly, it is really a change of culture. It's difficult but it's also extremely important because we need to train these young doctors in a different culture. That's all at stake!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u27	Minister, it is certainly important to monitor very closely the application of this model agreement. The testimonies of the site and also the brief report by the committee you have given are clear. There are still a lot of problems. They even want to settle the lunch break now. The study time is not properly applied either, if I understand correctly. In a sense, it was an historic agreement, but its application is certainly not historic. I believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done, and I will certainly come back to this. We hope for a strict application.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u28	Madam President, Minister, the Red Cross of Flanders last month indicated that blood supplies were very low. Only of the blood type B+ there would still be sufficient stock, with all other blood types there would be an alarmingly low stock. That's too bad. After all, our country has a beautiful and long tradition of voluntary unpaid blood donation. There's been an interruption in that. Perhaps the covid crisis is in the middle of something, which has interrupted the routine of regular donors, and apparently no longer picked up. It goes without saying that it is important to ensure a sufficient level of blood supply. At the moment there would be stock for less than a working week. Is known the reason for the fallback in donations? Is that indeed due to the covid crisis? Or are there other factors involved? What actions have you been able to take to get the blood supply back on track? What actions will you take if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u29	Madam President, the FAGG requests the blood supply from the four blood establishments on a weekly basis. That data is compiled to get a picture of the national blood supply. Indeed, since the end of March there has been a decline, which did not give any immediate cause for concern, a fluctuation in itself is not abnormal. On 21 April, however, it was noted that the blood supply continued to decline and moved towards a critical supply. Initially, the various blood establishments were contacted. They have also said this proactively themselves. Perhaps there is a combination of factors. There is the impact of covid, but perhaps there is also something more structural going on. At least this needs to be addressed. The administrations involved and my policy cell are working with the blood establishments to deal with this situation. For example, hospitals have been asked to optimise the local management of the blood supply. That's the so-called patient blood management. In addition, a closer follow-up of the national blood supply has been ensured since 26 April. We're gonna follow up every day instead of weekly. The blood establishments themselves have also launched donor recruitment campaigns. For example, I myself visited the donor centre in Brussels on 4 May to highlight the importance of blood donation. I was pleasantly surprised by the constant motivation of the staff and donors. I think that these actions have had a positive effect because the blood supply has increased again to above the optimal level. On May 20, the blood supply was 11,163 units. That is good, because a critical stock is less than 4,250 units. For the time being, the data of 20 May reassures us, but I feel that there may be a structural trend in this area. We need to keep a very close eye on this and, if necessary, we need to think about additional actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u30	Thank you, Minister. I think it is indeed very important to try to convince people, but the reason for the decrease in the number of donations should also be found out. Covid will certainly play a role in that, but whatever interrupts that routine is problematic. I am therefore also concerned about the legislative proposal that was adopted in plenary last week. That bill was about shortening the waiting period from twelve to four months for men who had sex with men. That change requires a completely different organisation. A lot of additional measures are therefore needed. Red Cross Flanders indicates to fear that the explicit questionnaires will make the mobile collections much more difficult. I would like to ask you to ensure that these accompanying measures are possible, but also to ensure that the impact on that permanent quota of volunteers is monitored. For example, if there is another way of working and people have to move on to give blood, this can break through routines and scare people off. Let this be properly investigated so that measures can be taken proactively to avoid any major negative impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u31	Minister, it is important to learn lessons from the past and from possible mistakes to be well prepared for the future. I have already asked questions about the number of covid infections in healthcare professionals, but I have not received a good answer to this so far. We have several databases that are occasionally linked and crossed but there is still no frequent reporting. In the Netherlands, the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu (RIVM) publishes weekly figures on the number of infections among healthcare providers. They are very easy and accessible to the public. In the meantime, is there an overview of the number of covid infections in healthcare professionals? Are these figures broken down by category of healthcare provider? Can you tell me more about that? How many caregivers have so far been hospitalized because of covid? How many died as a result of covid? Can these figures be broken down by category of health care provider and by province? Has the protective effect of personal protective equipment on the number of infections in healthcare professionals been studied in our country? If so, how has that been studied and what are the results? Are any conclusions drawn for future pandemics?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u32	Mrs Gijbels, the weekly incidence of positive covid tests among health care workers registered with the RSZ is monitored within a collaboration of the RSZ and Sciensano. Those incidences are known for the period from 15 September 2020 to the end of January 2022. The cumulative incidence of covid diagnoses over this entire period is 50,000 diagnoses per 100,000 workers in psychiatric hospitals, around 60,000 diagnoses per 100,000 workers in general hospitals and 52,000 diagnoses per 100,000 workers in general practice. It is about the number of diagnoses, not about the number of people. There is therefore no correction for persons who have been subjected to multiple positive tests or have experienced multiple episodes. These figures run until the end of January. Also for the period from February 2002 there is a follow-up but fixing the latest figures still requires some validation steps. From the beginning of the epidemic until the end of March 2022, 1,38% of the hospitalised covid patients are registered in the Clinical Hospital Survey, which has a delay of four weeks and is not exhaustive. In the group of the deceased hospitalized persons 0.53% is caregiver. Within the group of deaths of the hospitalized because of covid 0.54 % caregiver. Split up the category of healthcare professionals, as you ask, is not possible, as that distinction is not established within the group of caregivers. The percentage of hospitalised caregivers who died from the effects of COVID-19 compared to the deaths caused by COVID-19 in hospitals is 0.58 % in Antwerp, 1.18 % in Hainaut, 2.41 % in Limburg, 1.27 % in Liège, 0.35 % in Namur, 0.17 % in East Flanders, 0.35 % in Flemish Brabant and 0.25 % in West Flanders. For Luxembourg, Walloon Brabant and Brussels, no hospitalised care providers have yet died from the consequences of COVID-19 registered in the Clinical Hospital Survey and for that reason we say that the percentage for Luxembourg, Walloon Brabant and Brussels is 0 %. The protective effect of personal protective equipment has been assessed in different types of national and international studies. Of course, studies other than Belgian studies by healthcare professionals can contribute to the knowledge and we must also take these studies into account. However, all studies come to the same conclusion, namely that personal protective equipment is effective in reducing the risk of contamination. In our country, a large-scale seroprevalence study was carried out among caregivers during the onset of the pandemic. The results have now been published in BMJ Open, a peer-reviewed scientific journal. De auteurs concluderen: "Seroprevalence among hospital healthcare workers was slightly higher than that of the general Belgian population but followed a similar evolution, suggesting that infection, prevention and control measures were effective and should be strictly maintained." Another Belgian seroprevalence study from the UZ Brussels, published in Epidemiology and Infection, also concludes that the risk of infection is much smaller after contact between healthcare professionals and COVID-19 patients with the recommended personal protective equipment than when these contacts occur without personal protective equipment. Finally, most importantly, the necessary strategic stocks of personal protective equipment have now been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u33	Thank you, Minister. They are cumulative infections, but there are a lot of them. It is a bit of a pity that only relative figures are given and not absolute. It's important to put numbers on that. You're talking about a percentage of the caregivers who died, but it would only show respect for the caregivers if we had absolute numbers on them. I certainly look at this in detail again, because I saw differences appear before the different provinces. It is also a pity that it was not broken down by category of caregivers. I hear that the general practitioners were followed, but I haven't heard anything about other primary care providers. I hope we all analyze the numbers that were abundant during the pandemic. I understand that this has not yet happened, but I do not understand that there will be a public report on these figures every week. People sometimes talk about an overdose of data and it may not be the intention to overload people with it, but anyone interested in the data should be able to easily consult them. That the use of personal protective equipment is useful, I hope. That's right, no one has to convince me of that. It is just a pity that there were no conclusions here regarding the first wave when there was not enough personal protective equipment. What impact did that have on the care staff? I will read the studies again to see if any further conclusions can be drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u34	My next question concerns the audit of heavy medical imaging in hospitals. The Audit Hospitals unit has vetted the use of heavy equipment for medical imaging, especially CT and MRI, in the Belgian hospital landscape. This results in a number of findings that were already visible in the reporting by, for example, the IMA. For example, there is a difference in the use of heavy radiological equipment in the different Länder. In Wallonia, there are about as many MRI scans as in Flanders, but more CT scans. In addition, a number of remarkable conclusions are made by the Audit Hospitals Unit. A higher use of heavy radiological equipment would be in correlation with its availability. Hospitals with internal procedures to reduce the use of CT scans would also succeed. CT scans are best limited as much as possible, given the radiation associated with them. With regard to digitisation, there would still be problems with implementation in the electronic patient file and data sharing. In addition, there is the well-known fact that the high use of radiographies and CT scans in this country has given us an international top spot in terms of radiation load for years. In this respect, MRI scanners are less harmful, as they only have a budgetary impact and no impact on ionising radiation. What are your conclusions from this important audit? Do you agree with the recommendations of the Audit Hospitals Unit? What actions will follow from this and according to what timetable? Do you have a certain reduction in radiation load in mind, so that we can finally get out of the top of countries with the highest radiation load? How will you do that? Are you in consultation with the Länder on the prescription behaviour and potential impact of education and further training on the number of requirements for heavy imaging? Will you consult with radiologists and hospitals? If so, when and with whom?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u35	The audit has produced interesting findings and recommendations. The audit has rightly demonstrated significant inter- and intra-regional differences in practice. The audit also highlights the important positive finding that in hospitals that have developed policies to reduce the number of CT studies, a positive impact is visible on the relationship between MRI and CT provision. This is, of course, an important point of departure in order to promote the legitimate use of CT research in order to reduce inter- and intra-regional differences. You're asking for action. As included in my hospital funding reform plan, I would like to develop the new financing method of medical imaging in hospitals in consultation with the Belgian Medical Imaging Platform of BELMIP. It's about funding CT and MRI. The idea is to introduce a financing model with, on the one hand, a professional fee for the physician and, on the other hand, a technical fee for the operation of the apparatus, based on reasonable, real costs in relation to a responsible volume of performance. The flat rate is more concretely based on a standardized population-related funding. It looks at the market share of each hospital for heavy medical imaging, a standard consumption to be determined with CT versus NMR and therefore a responsible number of devices per hospital. Our inspiration in this respect is the French model. Moreover, the RIZIV and the FPS Public Health are already working on an analysis of how a rational use of medical imaging can be obtained. Several projects fit in there. I'll give you two. That is, first of all, the introduction of clinical decision support for the appropriate prescription of radiology. In that system of clinical decision support, evidence-based basic decision-making rules will be integrated into the clinical workflow of all physicians requesting radiological studies. The system will check, by prescription, whether the proposed study is in line with evidence-based recommendations. This will help the doctors to develop a more effective prescription behaviour. A planning and timeline was drawn up for the clinical decision support project for radiology. Through pilot projects we wish to roll out the supporting targets for radiology in June 2024. The project can be successfully rolled out provided that, first, the planning is aligned with all partners, being the development partners, eHealth, first-line care, software providers and others. That alignment has yet to be achieved. The second condition is that the digital reference requirement should be available in the first quarter of 2024. Indeed, CDS can only be applied meaningfully if it is integrated into a digital electronic prescription solution. The second major project is a follow-up campaign on medical imaging at low back pain. That campaign is now being prepared. The review of the first campaign of 2021 shows that the campaign had a high rate of retention. As many as 43.7% of the population remembered the campaign after it ended and the campaign proved to score well in terms of information, readability and attractiveness. You ask if we have a certain reduction in radiation load in mind. The high radiation load for diagnostic applications is caused by the inefficient prescription of radiological examination, in particular the CT scans. A report of the RIZIV from October 2010 stated that more prescribing via evidence based guidelines could reduce medical exposure to ionising radiation for diagnostic tests by at least a quarter. With the introduction of CDS for radiology, together with the new funding model, we want to avoid unnecessary investigations at the right time, namely when the prescriber would request them. Depending on the indication and on the evidence-based decision-making rules, ineffective CT scans would be reduced, on the one hand by not prescribing imaging and on the other hand by prescribing another more appropriate study, such as an MRI. There is good news in the field of radiation pollution. As regards the radiation load per study, the FANC, which is closely cooperating within BELMIP, published the findings of a dose study in April. The FANC noted that the average radiation dose to which patients are exposed per CT study has decreased by as much as 30% to 55% over the past decade. At European level, Belgian hospitals do well in carrying out imaging studies with regard to the radiation protection of patients. At the same time, they also ensure the maintenance of a qualitative image. This last thought to conclude what I said about the need to further reduce the radiation load. You ask me if I am in agreement with the Länder. Correctly prescribing radiological tests indeed starts with the training of doctors. The RIZIV and the FPS Public Health are investigating how an educational environment can be provided with the CDS tool. In this way, the CDS for radiology will also be used as a tool in the training of doctors and in continuous reproduction. When there is more insight into the time horizon for this part of the CDS project, we will contact the Länder. Regular updates of the CDS project are already notified in the BELMIP platform, which includes the Länder. You're asking about the consultation with radiologists and hospitals. All the actions I have mentioned here will be developed in consultation with the experts of BELMIP. In this way we ensure that the expertise of BELMIP is exploited and that all stakeholders are involved. Good communication and coordination with the sector is essential for the clinical decision support for radiology projects. This is why a specific working group on communication and acceptance was set up within the project. In this working group all actors will be invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u36	Minister, this indeed deserves to be addressed at different levels. You spoke of accountability and effective care. I have learned in my training to honor the ALARA principle, as low as reasonably achievable, over and over again. The less radiation one needs to get a certain image, the better. That is a very important principle, it is mainly up to the doctors, but also to the patients. Information campaigns should continuously make patients aware that a CT scan is not always the solution to a problem or is not always necessary to make a particular diagnosis. That's very important. Indeed, that study shows that the hospitals that are already using a protocol to reduce the number of CT scans are also successful. In my opinion, it is also a matter of mentality in a hospital, in doctors, in care providers. There must be a general plan, but we must not punish those who are doing well. That's important. There are great differences and it is not the ones that are doing well that need to be addressed. You indicate that the radiation dose per CT has decreased recently. Indeed, the use of low dose CTs is increasing. This evolution is, of course, taking place in all countries. Getting the number down must still be the target. I'd be happy to follow it. It's a domain that interests me particularly. I hope that we will indeed get out of the summit in terms of radiation pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u37	Minister, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health launched the GovApp a few weeks ago, allowing even faster and safer reports from the government. Due to the corona crisis, websites, campaigns, brochures and two digital applications, Coronalert and CovidSafe, have been created or organised. This type of communication is intended to continue to be used. The GovApp replaces the text messages that have been sent so far, and would save money, as the volume of paid text messages should fall dramatically. The technical realization was carried out by Digital Flanders and the joint ICT organisation of the Public Institutions of Social Security, the Federal Public Services, and the government departments of the Länder, namely the non-profit association Smalls. I have the following questions. How much is this app? With this the other applications, for example Coronalert and CovidSafe disappear? How much did those apps cost? What was the cost of the text messages? What is the estimated saving? In the press release there was talk that other information could also be shared in the future? What information are we talking about here? Was the GBA's advice requested? What was her advice? What alternatives are there for digital incompetence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u38	The cost, including VAT, for the various functionalities of GovApp is 77.000 euros, as a one-off investment, and annually 51.400 euros for maintenance and support. GovApp is an alternative to getting text messages because of the government. It is an alternative that allows clearer, safer and cheaper communication with citizens. More clearly, because the messages can be much longer than texting, and also images or videos can be sent along. Safer, because the messages are end-to-end encrypted. Cheaper, because unlike a text message, there are no shipping costs. I call on everyone to install GovApp. You can find all the information about this on the website www.GovApp.be. There should be no confusion with the CovidSafe application, which is an application to download the COOVID-19 vaccination, test and recovery certificate and to show it where necessary. There should also be no confusion with Coronalert, an application that can alert the user when he has had a high risk contact with another person who is infected with COVID -9. In short, CovidSafe.be, Coronalert and the new GovApp are three different functionalities, all of which will remain active as long as they are useful. Following negotiations with the telecom operators, where a reduction of some 70% on the cost of SMS in the context of combating COOVID-19 could be obtained by 2022, the cost of a text message to a Belgian subscriber is 0.025 euros, including VAT. The cost of a text message to a foreign subscriber amounts to almost three times that amount. During the months in 2021 in which the virus was very circulating, SMS costs threatened to approximate the amount of EUR 1 million per month. Of course, the costs have been much lower in recent months. In the event of a flare-up of the virus, which I naturally hope will stay out of, we are now ready to communicate almost free and, above all, much more clearly targeted. By the way, other texts now sent by governments or social security institutions can now be sent more clearly and more securely via messages to GovApp free of charge. All messages sent by government or social security institutions via SMS to a citizen can now be sent to GovApp, for the citizens who installed the app. For example, think of the notification that a new important message is available in the eBox or the notification sent by BE-Alert today via SMS to people who have registered on BE-Alert. GovApp is just an alternative communication channel for a text message. Such a channel of communication should not in itself be regulated by law. No legislation has therefore been submitted to the Data Protection Authority for its opinion. As indicated, the messages sent through the app are encrypted, end-to-end, so that no one but the recipient can learn about them. That's not the case with a text message. No personal data is processed outside the mobile phone number of the device on which the app is installed. The privacy policy can be consulted on the website I just mentioned. Finally, in all initiatives, the government focuses on social inclusion. For example, invitations to vaccination are sent on paper to people who have not activated their eBox. However, many people do seem to have mobile applications. For example, the CovidSafeBE app is installed on 8.5 million devices. If the users of all those devices install GovApp, we can inform them clearly, safely and cheaper via that channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u39	Minister, the intention is to be able to do a great deal with that one app, but it seems that not everything can be done. It is a pity that, for example, the covid apps must remain in place and that it cannot all happen with one app. That would be much clearer for the citizen. We still have to take social inclusion into account. There are still many people who are not digital, because they do not have the resources or the know-how. It is important that these people also stay informed about the rallying and sailing and the messages of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u40	This question has been tabled some time ago and concerns the omikron BA.4 and BA.5 variants that would have been traced in South Africa. What decision did you make on the vaccinations in the autumn? Will you opt for the vaccines that are adapted to the omicron variant or will you continue to administer the Wuhan version?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u41	We follow up on the new variants through the analyses of the reference lab in particular. The advance of these variants is not of such a nature that we now have to worry very much about it. The spread has been limited so far. A dozen cases of BA.4 and two of BA.5 were identified in Belgium until 3 May. The number of cases detected in the rest of Europe is still limited. Only in South Africa is there a strong spread. It is too early to estimate what a possible replacement of the BA.2 subvariant by BA.4 and/or BA.5 in Belgium will mean. There is no evidence so far that these subvariants would differ in the severity of the disease. Most likely, the subvariants will temporarily lead to a slight increase in the number of infections, similar to what we saw when BA.1 was replaced by BA.2 We're following this closely. The vaccination has not yet been decided. It is not yet clear whether the companies supplying the vaccines, in particular Pfizer and Moderna, will come up with a variant vaccine that will be authorised and which we then consider to be the superior efficacy of which it is better to use. We don't know that yet. We are negotiating with the companies about the different options that may exist, but we cannot now say whether we will decide at some point to use a variant vaccine or the original vaccines that have been developed against the Wuhan strain. It's too early to be able to determine that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u42	Thank you for the answer, Minister. With regard to the variants, I agree with you. It's all hard to estimate. We're in a different season. We'll have to prepare for what comes in winter. As far as vaccines are concerned, I have been told that you have received the question from the companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u43	Absolutely. The companies let us know that they are developing a vaccine that could be successful and ask if we are interested. I had understood your question differently. Your question is: shall we use those vaccines? We don't know yet. We're in the middle of negotiations with the companies. We're looking at the options we're interested in. That meeting is going on, including in the lap of the IMC. We evaluate the options that exist with the orders. The companies themselves cannot say with certainty that they will get a permit. They can't say much about the efficacy either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u44	It still points to the tangles of contracts that have been made around the covid vaccines. You are now replying to me that you are looking with the companies at the options for the delivery of any modified vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u45	That's not big news. We've been doing that for a while. We've been working on that for a long time. That is also a European debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u46	Last year I asked you explicitly and repeatedly whether you would be able to order modified vaccines. I note today that you are still negotiating on this. The criticism we have so often expressed about these vaccine contracts seems to be justified today. First of all, the price was not clear. Secondly, proportionality was not clear. Thirdly, there is the question of how we see the future. If we read the newspaper today, we will see that many Member States agree with the criticism of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u47	It's just the other way around. Sorry, but you were constantly yelling, "Order, order, buy, buy. Be quick, do not let the opportunity pass; other countries will otherwise pass you by." That is a short summary of what you have said here over the last year and a half. Now you say that the letter from Poland and other Eastern European countries would confirm your vision. Well, it's just the other way around, Mrs. Depoorter. In any case, I do not blame you: like many others, you have called for rapid action. We have done so as far as possible, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u48	I've also kept saying that you had to make sure the contracts were waterproof. Well, they clearly weren't from the beginning. You have from the beginning called upon yourself to use your own words "that your contract was waterproof and that you knew what you were standing for." And that, should you have surplus vaccines, you would donate them to COVAX so that they would be available to people in development areas. I find today that you do not know exactly what your contract means. You are still negotiating to be able to obtain modified vaccines for our patients this autumn. Let that be what this is all about, Minister: you have not negotiated your contracts in a transparent manner. You did not sit at the table and entrusted it to your European colleagues. Your own FAGG was not aware of exactly what was signed and that is revenged again today. We have a surplus of vaccines that will not be used in the near future, neither here nor on the other side of the world, although many people are still waiting for them. At the same time, you cannot guarantee our patients that they will receive the most appropriate vaccine in the coming autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u49	This discussion is getting rather tiring. We simply cannot guarantee that, since we do not yet know whether the vaccines will be authorised against the variants and whether they will be effective. Secondly, it's pure nonsense that we wouldn't know exactly what the contracts are. In that case, I would ask you to intervene urgently on this matter by the Flemish Government. In that government, you're in on it. So it would be scandalous what that Flemish government decides, because it makes the decisions together with us. If there is a government that, quite rightly, constantly insists on making a quick decision and buying-in, then it is precisely the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u50	Do you know what is outrageous, Minister? That the explanations given by the FAGG on the IMC also contained hatched boxes. I requested that, but I never got it. How could it be decided correctly? That's my question. A blank signature has been given to the FAGG over and over again, which was not at the table. I warned you about that from the start. That is a serious mistake, and we are bearing the consequences of it to this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u51	The next question is about needle spiking, Minister. That's a little different than gibberish.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u52	Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister of Health about the many cases of sexual assaults that have taken place in a number of countries with hypodermic needles. It turned out that dozens of young girls going out to discotheque or bars testified that they woke up the next day with marks of bites but also bruises on the skin. Mr Minister, this situation led me to question your colleague from the Interior at first. She has redirected me to you, for the health aspects of this issue, while knowing that she has minimized the seriousness of the problem. Indeed, it referred it to the responsibility of local entities and in particular local police areas. This is fundamentally a question. Modus operandi also raises questions in more than one way, in terms of health. First, the type of drug used raises questions, but also the effects of the drug and the duration of the drug. Secondly, the issue of intravenously transmitted diseases, such as HIV, arises when the same syringes are used. Today, it is clear that the aggressors benefit from the vagueness and the absence of measures taken by the policy, at the Belgian level in any case, to crack down. In fact, the organizers of the Belgian Pride in mid-May, as well as those of the We R Young festival in Hasselt, received a significant number of complaints. Minister, are you aware of cases of unsolicited drug administration through hypodermic needles in our country? Do you think this type of assault poses a risk to the transmission of certain diseases such as HIV? If so, how are these situations addressed, both preventively and curatively? Has your firm ever considered this issue? Have you approached him with your counterparts from the federated entities? Have there been any cases of transmission of diseases in the context of hypodermic needle attacks in our country? If so, could you provide us with figures, including figures broken down by type of disease? Finally, are you aware of the types of drugs that are transmissible via these needles? How long do these substances remain in the blood of the victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u53	Minister, I too have two questions on the subject. Needle spiking is a new phenomenon. We've known Spiking for a long time, which is the administration of drugs through a drink. However, we are now continuing to talk about injecting narcotic substances at events involving young girls and young boys. The way in which the attack is carried out happens almost according to the same scenario, i.e. the injection by injection with the intention of drugging or separating the victims. After a few minutes, the youngsters find that something is wrong. They can't identify the perpetrator very often. In the events in our country we see that there are sometimes puncture wounds that are visible on the body. Other times they can't be seen. Toxicologically, we have not yet found any cures in the body of the victims. I would have liked to ask a number of questions about this. Is there any clarity about the substances used? I've been informed that 200 different molecules have been searched by certain victims. How many percent of the victims did that happen? What are the consequences for the affected people today? How are they monitored in health? In other words, will you be working on that as a prick incident? So will you also screen for communicable diseases for six months? A link was established with the toxicological action of flunitazepam, which is commonly used in spiking. However, injecting that drug is another matter. Has flunitazepam been found anywhere in patients? Were there any syringes found in the area where the victims were injected? There is also another drug, GHB or 4-hydroxybutanoic acid. That has a very short effect. The problem is, it can't be traced after eight hours. How would you answer that, to reassure victims? There have already been a number of incidents, including athletic events, with less thought being given to the intoxication and abuse of victims. Have you commissioned the toxicological labs of our universities to carry out an in-depth investigation into foreign substances in the body of the victims or was it actually a standard toxicological determination? For example, very in-depth techniques can really be used to look for new products. To what extent are the victims followed from the hospital even after the discharge, both medically and psychologically? Are we looking for metabolites after 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours? To what extent are the puncture incidents monitored in globo? Will you congregate the IMC Drugs so that they will draw up a plan for the summer? The doctors at the Jessa Hospital have suggested that they would like assistance for the summer that is coming. Will you increase the monitoring of syringes or other pointed objects at mass events?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u54	Minister, my question is more about the action of medical discipline when a lot of people come together in one place, for example at a festival. This, of course, brings many challenges for medical discipline, as there is always a chance of calamities. The Federal Health Inspector shall provide advice on the number of doctors and nurses required for such events. However, the type of doctor is not defined. There is therefore no need for a certain level of expertise on airway management, poisoning, but also on appropriate communication in case of panic or mass hysteria about certain substances. That's why I have the following questions for you. Do you intend to provide for a legal framework defining the type of doctor and nurse for events requiring the advice of the federal health inspector? Is it desirable that there should be minimum standards for the qualifications of healthcare providers? Should they also be adapted to the type of manifestation and the risk it entails? How does the Federal Health Inspectors report? Are the reports collected for benchmarking? Are there any lessons to be learned from that? Will an improvement process be drawn up? In order to follow up the phenomenon of needle spking, has the Public Health Office formulated appropriate advice to the medical staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u55	Madam President, in both Arlon and Brussels, some victims have reportedly reported incidents called needle spiking. The colleagues of the Alcohol and Drug Socio-Epidemiological Observatory in Wallonia and Brussels, Eurotox, and the Flemish Centre of Expertise for Alcohol and Other Drugs, VAD, also confirm that there have been rumours of incidents. For the moment, however, there is no official confirmation of the existence of the phenomenon of needle spiking in Belgium. Nevertheless, this news is worrying and we must keep an eye on everything that can happen. A fortiori, we are not able to say with certainty whether the needles are used only once or several times. Obviously, repeated use always carries a risk of disease transmission. But we do not have data on this. According to neighbouring countries, the cases of needle spiking involve the use of GHB and flunitrazepam, Rohypnol. These are excreted from the blood very quickly, usually within a few hours or less of a day. A late reporting of an incident therefore makes it difficult to prove the use of one of these substances. However, flunitrazepam in particular can be detected in the urine for a longer period, up to a maximum of one week after administration. The latest available information on the use of GHB and flunitrazepam in cases of sexual assault or rape comes from a study by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology. One conclusion is that alcohol, followed by conventional illicit drugs such as cocaine, amphetamines, cannabis and psychoactive drugs, is more common in cases of rape, as opposed to highly publicized rape drugs such as GHB and flunitrazepam. A possible underestimation of the figures due to low detectability cannot be excluded. Adding drugs to drinks or taking an unknown or unknown pill are among the most common methods of administration. As regards the questions relating to further in-depth investigations and the follow-up of this dossier, I should like to refer you to my fellow Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, since this concerns the judicial authorities who, on the basis of the findings of the police, are requesting toxicological analyses and other forensic investigations. This also applies to monitoring and increasing controls and the like. As there is currently no objective data on the location of psychoactive substances in needle spiking, it is premature to convene the IMC Public Health thematic meeting on this subject. The phenomenon must first be thoroughly analysed and monitored. The use of drugs in nightlife and the phenomenon of spiking are powers of the Länder as part of their preventive mission. As regards questions relating to the Federal Health Inspectorate, the 1998 Royal Decree on the Provincial Committees for Urgent Medical Assistance to the Federal Health Inspectorate empowers the local authorities to advise. Although there is no explicit mention of events in the 2006 Emergency and Intervention Plans, major events are covered by the interpretation of the scope of the special emergency and intervention plans and of the special situations and emergencies. It was therefore explicitly referred to in the NPU-1 circular of 2008. Since these and other conversion letters are now part of the 2019 KB, they are still in force. It is within this framework that the federal health inspector gives an opinion to the gleaning authority, the mayor or the governor. That opinion is called the PRIMA advice. It is not binding and the powers of the federal health inspector are limited to this non-binding opinion. Only when a medical or psychosocial intervention plan is activated during a manifestation will the federal government be given a new role through its Federal Health Inspectorate. It belongs to the competence and responsibility of the gunning authorities to take over the elements of advice, within the terms of the permit or not. Within the non-binding advice of the Federal Health Inspectorate, additional specifications may be included regarding the specialities of the rescue staff employed. However, PRIMA advice builds on the logic and organisational principles of urgent medical assistance. Within an opinion on the qualifications of doctors, a difference can be made between doctors and mosquitoes, but no further specifications are possible. For MUG doctors, the legal standards governing the performance of this function are in force. For doctors, the final evaluation of whether or not to possess the necessary competences in order to medicalize a preventive operative part on a manifestation should be the personal ethical duty of the doctor who is asked to do so. Since the PRIMA advice is not binding, these recommendations are of course not binding within the opinion either. At all major events, in addition to preparatory meetings and plans, evaluation times are foreseen, both mono- and multidisciplinary. It is at these moments that lessons are being drawn. This accumulated knowledge and experience is shared within the network of federal health inspections. For example, it is not uncommon for a federal health inspector to be accompanied by colleagues from other clusters at an event during the safety tour, just to actively share knowledge. Another tangible result of knowledge sharing is the questionnaire used as a basis for drawing up the opinion. The parameters and variables on that questionnaire have not been chosen by chance, they are based on the integration of years of experience. This tool was recently scientifically validated and published in medical literature. The specific phenomenon of needle spking has not yet been described in medical literature. To date, no effective products have been shown to potentially enter the body via needle spiking. Feeling a prick and symptoms are thus mainly connected to the feeling of a prick, not to the consequences of a prick. That is also what our medical services have been facing in the past. The best help we can give these people is a relief in a serene environment, not mediatized and not dramatized, and with the explanation that it is possible here to deal with fear with real physical effects, which should be followed in a quiet environment. It is important not to panic. Any communication that can induce panic must be avoided. It's about being vigilant, but not overreacting. The emergence of panic on such events can have major consequences. Finally, it should also be borne in mind that, in exceptional circumstances, malice may be at stake. Now that attention has been paid to it, individuals may be encouraged to copy behavior. Then we must help the victims, through evidence of this malice, through, for example, medical reports and lab reports. All this must be done in a serene atmosphere and with open communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u56	Mr Minister, I thank you for your much more substantiated answer than the one given to me by the Minister of the Interior, because it is important to take this phenomenon seriously, to objectify it and, in particular, in view of your government's commitments to impose heavier penalties on spiking in the new Sexual Penal Code. If your government does not complete this process by acting on the Health component (prevention, health care and medical care), it makes no sense. Finally, your answer is half-tone. I thank you for reminding you that the federal level has a responsibility as the council of local authorities, which the Minister of the Interior did not say. For the rest, I regret a certain blur. You also acknowledge this by stating that this phenomenon must be able to be analysed in detail. How will you objectiveize this phenomenon? Time's running out! Today, the vagueness concerns intravenously transmitted diseases because it is not known whether syringes are used several times, but also as regards substances. In the meantime, the list of cases is growing. My request is to act in accordance with the precautionary principle. We cannot wait every time for new facts to arise to wonder what is happening, especially since investigations are taking place in foreign countries and we are thus in a position to obtain more information. I will end with your call not to give in to panic and not to communicate too much through the media. I would point out that if the victims communicate on social networks, it is because it is the only place where they feel they are being listened to. The most important thing today is to insist on where they can be assisted. It would be interesting to see if they could be taken care of in Sexual Violence Centres. Sexual assault should not be expected to lead to care, especially on the eve of school holidays and a long series of festivals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u57	Mr. Secretary, you're undermining the problem a little bit. You say that it is premature to convene an inter-ministerial conference, but you also refer to the competence of the Länder. It is essential that you sit together and develop a summer plan for the festivals. It cannot be that local authorities, youth organisations or anyone else in this vagueness should effectively seek their way. You can make some very quick interventions. You can ensure that the first aid post is manned by people who are psychologically trained to deal with such victims, who are also adequately trained in drugs and narcotics. You refer to a number of provisions that have been framed for doctors, but this does not apply to everyone who goes to work in the first aid post. There is a gap there, especially when it comes to smaller events, where volunteers often man the first aid post. They must be perfectly aware of what the problem can be. Sensitising at festivals is also possible. What particular symptoms can people get from some product? It is also important that drug tests are available in those first aid points. GHB is out the next day. Then the girls or boys who are confronted with it can no longer get the burden of proof. If they could go to a first aid post and take an ELISA test, they could quickly be reassured. Then they can continue their journey. You're referring to the Home Secretary for the deployment of new drugs. For this purpose, an inter-ministerial conference is just serving. You'll have 28 ministers at the table. Perhaps then you could discuss a real approach to the problem. There is also a call for support for the emergency services. You'd better do something about that. However, we must not panic. You are right in that We need to make sure that our young people can enjoy a festival and summer at ease. They can only do this when they have a government that is performing and is behind both the organizers of the festivals and the local authorities, the doctors and the visitors of the festival.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u58	Mr Minister, given the latest developments at the festivals, I wonder whether it should not be a minimum requirement for an emergency doctor and an emergency nurse to be present. Is it not also appropriate that an emergency physician should also be able to provide input in the preparation of such an opinion? In my opinion, there is occasional excess of competence by a federal health inspector and he regularly goes into the operational field, which cannot be the intention. Surgery doctors receive additional training of six years after initial training as doctors and have the necessary and useful expertise in the event of such intoxications. From the festival last weekend we heard that tablets were circulating with very high doses of MDMA. Then it is important that the right expertise is in place to be able to act quickly if someone has taken such a tablet. You also said that the debriefing is shared within the federal health inspectors' network, but I think it is necessary to share it further. Anyone who is involved in managing a disaster, for example at a festival, must always be informed, so that one is well informed and gets the latest developments on the latest products.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u59	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u60	Minister, the Special Solidarity Fund (SSF) has been in existence since 1990 and can play a very important role in patients who cannot benefit from the regular coverage of health insurance. Often these are patients with very serious conditions. In this way, they will receive part or full reimbursement of their therapy. For example, the Special Solidarity Fund is also very important for patients with orphan diseases. In my research in the framework of my proposal for a resolution on orphan diseases and orphan medicinal products, I noticed that no annual report has been published since 2018. So that was four years ago. The website of the Special Solidarity Fund itself has not been renewed since 2020. Mr Minister, why hasn't the BSF's annual report been published since 2018? Were there a preliminary version of the annual reports delivered to you? Did you get that? Are they available? How come no updates have happened from the website? Can our patients still count on the Special Solidarity Fund? Can you still supervise it as a competent minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u61	Madam President, it is true that there has been a gap in the publication of the classic annual reports of the BSF. The excuse for this is the increasing complexity of individual files and the very high workload in recent years, which meant that there was no time to complete the classic annual report. Priority was given to the patient files. That does not mean that no information has been published. For example, there was detailed information in response to various parliamentary questions. However, this is not the same as an official annual report. The good news is that it is being prepared and prepared 2021. It will be published on the RIZIV website in the foreseeable future after it has been submitted to the relevant bodies within the RIZIV. Relevant information on the years 2019 and 2020 will also be published on that occasion. I will ask the service concerned to make available the relevant figures, which you also ask for, via the website.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u62	Madam President, Minister, it is remarkable that such an organisation does not publish an annual report for any reason and that your services and the RIZIV do not ask for it. That is clearly a sloppy thing or a forgetfulness, which can't just happen. After all, we are talking about substantial budgets. It is good that an annual report is now being prepared. So we see that parliamentary questions can still be useful. That's a feather on our hat. However, Minister, it is a failure to check whether or not annual reports from organisations under your jurisdiction are published. This may have to do with the fact that the Public Health Office still has an ad interim chairman. This may also have to do with the fact that an in-depth audit of these organisations, which our group has already requested, is not being carried out. Mr Minister, perhaps it is time to think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u63	Madam President, the BSF is not covered by the Public Health Office but by the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u64	Minister, the FAGG is actually about the same story: the recommendations of the Court of Auditors have not been followed. In its Annual Report 178 the Court of Auditors points out that for a number of years there have been concerns about the FAGG, but that there is no substantive response. In particular, internal control remains insufficient and the Agency has no precise understanding of its processes. In this way, the risks in these processes cannot be sufficiently assessed. According to the Court of Auditors, the FAGG cannot guarantee that the follow-up tables and underlying data from operational systems form the basis for accounting. So they can't be closely monitored either. So, Minister, this is a second case, after the Special Solidarity Fund, where control of one of the organisations you are responsible for cannot be carried out adequately. The Court of Auditors says that the timeliness, completeness and correctness of the accounting records cannot be ensured. That remains a significant pain point. Finally, the Court of Auditors also notes that the FAGG would lack the necessary resources and knowledge to remedy these deficiencies. But you solved that by allocating more resources. To what extent do you agree with the Court of Auditors' analysis? How will you deal with the problem? How did you respond to the recommendations and comments of the Court of Auditors? Our group has asked for a review of the FAGG before. Will you also implement them in response to these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u65	The Court of Auditors' report is the result of an analysis to which the employees of the FAGG, as each year, have given their full cooperation. The recommendations that have emerged are not new. Both the management of the FAGG and myself are aware of this. Each of the nine recommendations of the Court of Auditors was integrated into the operational plan of the Budget and Management Control Department. So what happened in concrete terms? Both the Personnel and Organisation department as well as Budget and Management Control have now been strengthened. Not only the number of employees in VTEs was increased, but there was also investment in training to further strengthen the expertise. In order to ensure the timeliness, completeness and correctness of the accounting records, a specifications are now being finalised that will allow the FAGG to call in support of external expertise. With the help of a consultant, all processes will be mapped with a link to the financing of the FAGG. For each of these processes, the full workflow will be drawn out, those responsible will be appointed and control moments and parameters will be determined. The problem of underemployment within these services has been discussed several times within the Transparency Committee of the FAGG, which has formally expressed its support for strengthening these services. Very specifically, I can tell you that the Personnel and Organisation and Budget and Management Control departments were progressively strengthened between 2019 and today. For the P&O department, it's an evolution of 13.1 fte's to 16 fte's today. For the Budget and Management Control department, there was an increase of 10.3 fte's in 2019 to 13.3 fte's today. In addition, additional recruitments are foreseen for both sections within the staff plan of 2022. In addition, I would like to inform you that the administrative management and management of the FAGG staff since 2020 have been entrusted to PersoPoint, which is part of the FPS Policy and Support and has developed uniform procedures and is subject to internal controls as a social secretariat of the federal public office. As far as the resources for information technology are concerned, I can confirm that the FAGG has envelopes to develop new computer applications or to improve existing applications. If the consultation task referred to above for the reconciliation of operational systems or accounting would demonstrate the need for an investment for an IT development, the Agency may use these envelopes to meet expectations. Part of the IT resources are allocated annually by the management committee of the FAGG to several projects. The main projects will also be followed up further at the level of the FAGG operational plan. Your third question concerns how to deal with the problem of insufficient control and risk assessment of processes. Internal control policy and general objectives shall be translated into the management plan of the FAGG at strategic, tactical and operational level. This clearly links the projects carried out and the actions to improve the internal control system. All activities of the FAGG are expressed in the form of processes and together form the current catalogue of processes that is reviewed annually. At the end of 2021, the process catalogue contained 112 processes. These are submitted according to type: 21 management and control processes, 54 basic processes and 37 supporting processes. Each process is modelled in a process description sheet, a Diabolo sheet. The quality documents, manuals, procedures, working instructions relating to the processes shall also be mentioned. Each process has its owner, which is usually the head of an entity, a department or a unit. The catalogue, process sheets and quality documents are managed, signature and version management, and made available to everyone in the data management system quality. For all operational processes, the different outputs delivered have been identified, giving a very complete overview of the approximately 600 different outputs for the annual zero-based budgeting exercise and the staff time recording system called ProCost. The catalogue of processes, outputs and process sheets are elements of the quality manual of the FAGG. In June 2018, the FAGG responded to the invitation of the Federal Internal Audit to participate in the identification of strategic risks. This analysis exercise strengthened the close cooperation between the two institutions, was a concrete example of the identification and measurement of risks at global level for the management of the FAGG and is a concrete application of internal control. Since 2018, this exercise has been carried out annually and its results are communicated to the Federal Internal Audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u66	Minister, that was a detailed answer. You have initiated an effective implementation of the recommendations in an integral plan. I hope that in the next annual report we can effectively read that there is better control and better control of the organisation. After all, what are you doing? You're going to rehabilitate the organization of the State in the hope that your organization will work better. It would be much better to carry out a very thorough evaluation first and then to see where to intervene. We will certainly continue to follow this up, and I hope that next year the comments of the Court of Auditors will not come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u67	Mr Minister, this question concerns the state of the covid vaccination. We approved the possibility that pharmacists would vaccinate in the pharmacy. A royal decree was announced and probably published, allowing the general practitioners to participate in the covid vaccination and to issue group regulations. I would like to get an update on the roll-out of these measures. Are there any general practitioners who are currently vaccinate against COVID-19? In the meantime, is there a price agreement and a nomenclature available for the implementation of the vaccination and registration by the pharmacist? When was the royal decision for vaccination published with general practitioners? Finally, it was decided that the vaccines will be supplied by Medista. When we really go to first-line vaccination, I think it would be much more logical for this distribution to take place through pharmaceutical wholesalers. They certainly have the experience and expertise for that. Is that what you're considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u68	Mrs Depoorter, as you have indicated yourself, was the decision that the general practitioner allowed to order covid vaccines on the basis of a group prescription at a pharmacy open to the public published on 23 March. That is the Royal Decree of 17 March 2022 on the delivery of vaccines to doctors on the basis of a written request for a group of patients and outsourcing of fractionation. As far as practical application is concerned, I have to refer to the Länder, which are responsible for organising vaccination, also in the first line. As far as I know, there are some very limited pilot projects of vaccination in general practitioners. I am now answering your last question, because it still relates to that. The general practitioner or doctor must obtain the medicines via the pharmacy. The decision therefore provides for a number of relaxations to facilitate the delivery of a general practitioner's practice by a pharmacy. The pharmacist may deliver the covid vaccines to the prescriber or to a nurse designated by him or her. The pharmacist can deliver in the general practitioner's practice. The pharmacist may, if necessary, subcontract the dilution of the vaccines more easily, including to a hospital pharmacy. These are relaxations, but it is not intended that a doctor should directly involve COVID-19 vaccines in a manufacturer or wholesaler. That is not the intention, and that does not seem to me to be so simple, to be honest. You asked again about the nomenclature for the vaccination by the pharmacist. It's still hanging. As you know, I have made a technical proposal, but its funding is still the subject of discussion between the federal and the sub-state levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u69	Minister, the question was not whether doctors could get the vaccines directly through wholesalers, but whether the pharmacists would get the vaccines through wholesalers. The solution via Medista is quite expensive. This can be done while the vaccination centres are still open, but if we were to go to an annual vaccination for covid, it would be more logical to have these vaccines delivered to the pharmacies and so on to the general practitioners by the pharmaceutical wholesalers in the normal circuit. You're talking about pilot projects. We have voted on this, we have formulated a very clear vision on this, but it is not yet being implemented in practice. That's a bit of a shame. What is particularly unfortunate is that my fellow pharmacists who are now vaccinating Wallonia and Brussels still have no nomenclature and are still not being paid. That has to be resolved urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u70	Madam President, Minister, the federal government has approved the agreement with physiotherapists, but the majority association of physiotherapists does not adhere to this agreement or, in any case, makes a number of major criticisms. I'm holding three of them mostly. First of all, there is always this problem of discrimination in the reimbursement of patients depending on whether or not they are addressing a contracted physiotherapist. The patient is the victim of the situation for which he is not responsible. This poses a problem of accessibility to physiotherapy care. I recall that this is also true for logopeds and midwives. However, for doctors and dentists, this is not the case. Why this discrimination between health professions and patients? Then, a review is made of the amount of the physiotherapy consultation, which amounts to 24 euros the 30-minute session. When counting professional expenses, social contributions and taxes, what remains of the physiotherapist? Finally, home travel costs are derisory when attempts are made to encourage home care; I find that this is not at all consistent with that intention. Minister, what are the contacts between the physiotherapists' associations and yourself? How are you going to find solutions that allow the patient good accessibility and quality of physiotherapy care, given the current dissatisfaction of physiotherapists with the convention as adopted by the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u71	Minister, there is an agreement with the physiotherapists for 2022 and 2023 established by the Insurance Committee. If insufficient.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the case, because the impression is that many people do not agree with the design. For example, linear indexation would be envisaged, while the professional association envisaged a targeted budget increase. In addition, an additional budget would only be made available when an agreement was concluded. Axxon launched a petition to sue the discriminatory refund measure with the aim of collecting 25,000 signatures. In addition to the limited fee for a treatment to last at least 30 minutes, there is the problem of the limited travel allowance for house visits. I have the following questions. Do you have an idea of the percentage of physiotherapists who will not join the agreement? Is there any kind of intermediate position yet? Is there still consultation with the professional association? Are certain deadlines agreed and, if so, which ones? How do you see the role of the physiotherapists in the health care of the future? What will you do to improve the situation in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u72	We read on May 20 that the Council of Ministers gave the green light to a convention for the physiotherapists. EUR 13.85 million would be made available for this purpose. Previously, Axxon, the professional association of the physiotherapists, started a petition in which they charge the difference in reimbursement for the patient in convention and non-conventional physiotherapists, which they describe already a discrimination against. The patient. Is this announced budget below the 207 million euros you released for health care? Do you think the physiotherapists will join this convention? What are you doing to make sure that as many therapists as possible sign up? What reactions did you hear from the field? How does Axxon react? The new convention will provide a solution to the problem that Axxon is suing for. The refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u73	Madam President, first of all, there is a convention in this area of physiotherapy. When the Insurance Committee approves a convention, there is a convention! The question, of course, is what level of individual agreement will be reached. That's what matters on the ground. Anyway, there's a convention. That means, Mrs Gijbels, that the additional 13 million, i.e. the non-structural amount which allows for an overall indexation of 2%, will be granted. But, on the other hand, the 25% reduction in reimbursement will apply to patients of uncontracted kines. Perhaps I did not express myself sufficiently clearly on the subject, but I repeat that there is a convention with positive consequences, namely the additional 13 million. But there will also be a 25% reduction in reimbursements for physiotherapists who are not individually agreed upon. Mr Bacquelaine, I know that this issue is the subject of a broad debate. I personally believe that, as things stand, it is difficult to repeal this 25% reduction measure, even if it does not apply to physicians. We need to focus our budget resources on contracted physiotherapists and their patients. I know that Axxon, the professional representative organisation, did not accept the proposal and she does not welcome the situation. But I think I can say that the relationship I have with Axxon is constructive. I will, moreover, meet with its representatives next week to discuss the situation and to reflect on future prospects. I understand that there may be some frustration in the field, given that the fees for physiotherapists are relatively low compared to other fees in the area. You mustn't deny it. On the other hand, the partial budget that has been adopted and approved for the sector allows for improvements. This budget was increased by EUR 17 million compared to last year. In addition to this, the 13 million non-structural. That's still 30 million. And we know that the revalorisations granted involve a new increase in the budget. The budget will therefore have to be increased again. I told Axxon that I understood the dissatisfaction and that I would take it into account when discussing the partial objectives for the year 2023. I think it really needs to be taken into account. Moreover, the Convention itself specifies that the evolution of the rate of agreement must be monitored, the possible factors of influence and their impact on the conventioning process must be examined. It is also planned to carry out a survey of professionals on the personal grounds of agreement or deconvention. It is clear that this system needs to be assessed and what further action is needed and what further action is appropriate. Given the need for tariff security for patients, I hope that as many physiotherapists as possible will join the convention again. At the same time, I understand the discontent, even if the increases are quite significant. That is why I have launched a dialogue with Axxon on the sector, on what is happening there and on the prospects for the future to be outlined. I hope that with this mutual understanding, we will be able to reach an agreement next year which is also supported by Axxon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u74	Minister, thank you. Of course, I do not hold you responsible for the level of the physiotherapists' fees in recent years. But I think they're very low. If we want to improve the agreement of physiotherapists, we have to go through a greater revalorisation of the fees. Honestly, on time, that's 48 euros. I'm going to be very concrete. For an independent, out of 48 euros, when one removes the professional fees, the 20% social contributions and the tax, what remains? That's why many physiotherapists no longer want to be contracted today. It is the patient who will bear 25% less reimbursement, but in addition, who will pay the fee increase, greater than that provided for by the agreement. This really calls into question access to quality care. And I am not talking about home travel, which is becoming completely illusory, given the rise in fuel prices today. With just over one euro for travel expenses, it is obviously impossible to promote home care, which, however, is still very necessary if patients are to be kept at home for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u75	Mr Minister, Articles 85 and 86 of the Quality Act have still not entered into force. That was the intention, however. Those are the articles that must eliminate discrimination in reimbursement. You indicated that you would examine the relevance of that rule, but it is not quite clear to me what is happening in this area. What bothers me about the 25 % rule is not only that the patients suffer from it, but also that the physiotherapists are put under pressure. It is very difficult for them to decide to deconvent. After all, they know that the patient takes the fall for that. In fact, I think it is a cruel rule, in which there are no equal parties involved. Of course, it is a budgetary issue when it comes to raising tariffs, but I think we should also charge how much the physicists can contribute to effective care if they are properly involved in the patient's care process. As I said before, they can avoid certain orthopaedic interventions if they are deployed correctly and on time. They can also keep people mobile longer if they get the right remuneration and can bet on it. I think it can even save money. I hear you're staying in dialogue with the physiotherapists. I hope it will be a fruitful dialogue. If they do not receive a workable wage and cannot schedule more patients than 2 per hour, then they cannot increase their income if they want to do good work. I would like to call on you once again to truly value the physiotherapists. I believe that they can play an important role in the care chain, especially in terms of effective care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic807x.u76	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I think there are two problems. On the one hand, you're talking about indexing. According to our calculations, there is an indexation of 1.4%, not 2%. This is of course very little compared to an estimated inflation of 9% and the costs that these independents face, especially in view of the increase in fuel prices. On the other hand, if I have understood correctly, with regard to the indexation provided for in the law on tomorrow's agenda in the Committee on Social Affairs, this is a levy from the 2023 budget, is it not? [[No]] We'll talk about it tomorrow then. On the other hand, there is a risk that you will not reach 60% of the convention rate or that a significant number of physiotherapists will not sign the convention, which will inevitably and unfortunately lead to a two-speed medicine with a more burdensome user ticket to pay for people and, ultimately, less accessibility. I therefore think that there is room to review this, but we will discuss it tomorrow in the Social Affairs Committee.
