ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u1	Minister, we all know that Infrabel has the ambition to shut her down as much as possible. I have a simple question about that. What reflections are being closed this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u2	Thank you, Mr Roggeman, for your questions on the consideration. I support all measures that contribute to safer traffic. The same applies to rail transport and the question of consideration. They can be a weak link in our rail network, primarily because they can disturb rail traffic and also because third parties can damage it. For example, a truck with an open loader can carry the overhead line on a road, which has a negative impact on punctuality. In addition, of course, there are numerous personal accidents. I will not now give an exhaustive overview of the reflections that are the subject of discussions on a possible closure, nor of the plans for 2022. It should be considered on a case-by-case basis whether the abolition of a road is a good option. The following conditions must be respected. These are the number of accidents, the crowds of road traffic, the hustle and bustle of rail traffic, the impact on the environment, the technical possibilities and so on. In any case, Infrabel will always consult the local authorities involved in the eventual abolition, which will thus be able to express their concerns, so that Infrabel can take this into account. My cabinet is therefore working with the FPS Mobility on a stricter legal framework, with objective criteria for closure. There will also be better consultation between Infrabel and the local authorities. As has already been said, the safety of the consideration is always at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I regret that we do not have an answer to this simple question. I would have liked to know which railway plans will be closed over the next few months. You explained the policies and criteria, but we were already aware of them. I am actually surprised that you cannot give an answer, because in the past this has always been the case with similar questions to you and to Minister Bellot, your predecessor. At that time, such a simple factual question did receive a simple factual answer with a list of the municipalities and the numbers of the consideration. I note that today, apparently, this is no longer possible or considered appropriate. I regret that. I note that with regard to other oral questions. It is becoming increasingly difficult to get a concrete answer to simple factual questions. Transparency is not improving.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u4	Minister, in your policy paper for the current year, you announced that you would introduce an additional offer within the framework of the transport plan. It would be an increase of 5% in the number of trains, with more trains in the morning, in the evening and at weekends. That must of course be paid, hence the following questions. According to my data, the additional offer entered into force in December 2021. Is that cost-covering for SNCB? What's the estimated additional loss that's being suffered? Has the expansion of supply been cost-effective in recent years? Do you have any figures of that? Is all the conditions for an extension of the offer in the context of the transport plan met? What conditions are not met as regards management contract, available budget, infrastructure fee, availability of equipment and personnel, and capacity and quality of infrastructure? Do you also have figures on the number of potential new travellers you want to attract? I think I know that there is always a study ahead of such capacity increases. Could you make those figures available to this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u5	Mr Roggeman, as you know, the health crisis and the resulting measures, particularly in the field of compulsory teleworking, have had a major impact on SNCB. That is why I urged the federal government to provide SNCB with the necessary compensation to cope with the decline in income resulting from the pandemic. I would remind you that, throughout the crisis, SNCB has maintained its services and that this has allowed the population and medical staff to continue to travel under the best conditions, given the health situation. In this context, the planned extensions of the transport plan 2023 are deployed, knowing that SNCB is working on its new transport plan 2023-2026, by integrating the paradigm changes related to the new travel habits and by developing relevant solutions to address them. The answer to the questions concerning the fulfilment of the conditions for the expansion of the offer is always positive. As far as the management contract is concerned, production exceeds 110,000 train kilometres per weekend and exceeds 220,000 train kilometres per working day. The management contract is thus fully met. The transport plan itself must be approved by the Council of Ministers to see whether the offer rolled out is in line with the expectations of the State. The expansion of the offer for these two years was precisely budgeted, both in the company's annual budget and in the business plan. The financing of the infrastructure fee to be paid to Infrabel is also included in the budgets and in the business plan. The necessary recruitments were made in order to achieve the new offer. When Corona started to rise high, especially during the first and fourth wave of the pandemic, SNCB, like other industrial sectors, faced a high absenteeism rate, which meant that it had to temporarily reduce its supply. However, this situation would have occurred to the same extent if SNCB had not expanded its offer in December 2020. The transport plan was discussed in its entirety with Infrabel, the infrastructure manager. All 3,800 trains running on weekdays are allowed to operate on the basis of the available infrastructure and its quality. Infrabel grants each year the requested lanes according to the available infrastructure. In the event of poor infrastructure or infrastructure that is not sufficiently maintained to maintain its characteristics, Infrabel often carries out temporary delays which are then settled in the driving times of the trains. Finally, I continue to argue every day that SNCB should be able to carry out properly the public service tasks entrusted to it. After all, more trains also mean more road safety, less congestion and less pollution and CO2 emissions, which cost our economy more than EUR 4.5 billion last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u6	Mr Minister, like my previous question, I note that you do not provide any figures. You said that everything was properly budgeted for the two years I referred to in my question. However, the essential question was whether that offer was cost-effective and how much the additional loss was. Parliament will not get an answer to that. You're referring to the corona crisis. This may have caused additional costs, not only for SNCB...................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is precisely for this reason that I asked for the study to be made available for the expansion of the offer that preceded the corona crisis. I regret once again that we do not receive concrete answers to specific questions. That seems to be repeated every committee session. For example, when I asked questions during previous sessions about the cost coverage of additional trains during events, about the cost coverage of railway lines in general or about which stations would be equipped with parcel machines, I did not receive an answer to that question, although these were very specific questions. Nor did Mr Torasters receive an answer to his question on security incidents at the last plenary session. I regret that, Minister. I have been following this committee mostly behind the scenes since 2013. I have seen many Mobility Ministers here: Minister Labille, Secretary of State Wathelet and Fonck, Ministers Galant and Belot during the previous legislature. In the case of questions to those excellences, we have always received factual information, which appears to be very difficult for you. I don't know if that's up to you or the SNCB or Infrabel. I simply note that transparency has been greatly reduced here compared to the previous legislatures, including those in which the N-VA was in the opposition, by the way. I do not want to turn it into party politics, but this is not a transparent way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u7	Mr Minister, you replied to my earlier question on the appalling state of Lier's station that you would give the official response of SNCB, but that you listened carefully and that you share my concern about the preservation of that monument. You have committed yourself to discussing this with SNCB. In the meantime, I have been in contact with the expert pocket heritage of the city of Lier. It has made the necessary observations about the building and has also notified it to the enforcement authority of the Real Estate Agency. In my opinion, it is in no one's interest to wait for SNCB to assume its responsibility in such an enforcement process. Fresh from the press is the news that the joint group leaders of the Lierse municipal council, across party boundaries and the boundaries of majority and opposition, have also expressed their concern about you. In the meantime, have you been in contact with SNCB about the state of the buildings and the actions that SNCB will take in the short and medium term? Does SNCB maintain its position that it should not maintain that protected monument and that it is a responsible attitude to let it go further until 2025, or even later? What actions will you take in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u8	Mr Wollants, as promised during our last exchange of views in committee, I asked SNCB about Lier's station. We absolutely must cherish that historical heritage. SNCB has confirmed to me that it will do everything in its power to preserve the building properly before the necessary structural works will take place. The intention is to make a temporary station building available to customers. Thus, the existing, protected and historic station building can be cleared for a global restoration. The planning of these works is as follows: the study and request for construction of the temporary station building are foreseen for the end 2022-beginning 2023; the call for tenders and subsequent execution will take place from mid 2023 to mid 2024; the study of the renovation dossier, the consultation with various services and the request for renovation of the historic station building will take place in 2023 and 2024; the call for tenders will take place between mid 2024 and early 2025; the start of the works is planned for the first half of 2025. Furthermore, prior to the structural approach of this project, conservation works will take place on the existing building, which is important. Based on the existing state of the building and with the perspective of a global restoration from 2025, a list of the conservation works to be realized will be drawn up and executed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u9	It is very important that conservation works can start as soon as possible. Today, the occupation still comes down to the place where almost 5,700 passengers leave in a normal year. That's not like this anymore. The group leaders invited you to Lier. You know Lier's lying there. I've seen you plant trees there. It is time that we put together a tree about that station environment and the station of Lier and that this can start as soon as possible. We will continue to remind you of that. We are glad that there is a timing, now the execution and we are still getting somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 55024729C by Mrs Verhaert has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u11	Mr President, Minister, following an extensive construction project of EUR 25 million, the province of Namur organized the gathering of many of its services in a unique building: the provincial administrative house (MAP) in Salzinnes, which was invested last summer. However, the permit granted for the construction of this building indicated that a series of outlying developments had to be carried out in order not to compromise the mobility of the area engulfed between the Sambre, Citadelle and the railway. One of these developments is to create a second access to the MAP site via Woitrin Street, crossing the rails leading to the Infrabel workshops. While the province is responsible for taking over the costs, it has been planned that Infrabel will be responsible for the technical studies prior to the construction of a track tunnel. But today, things have still not moved forward and the different actors are referring to each other. According to Infrabel, the province must provide answers to the various points in order to draft an agreement setting out the practical and financial terms of the project. For the province, however, an agreement was passed by the Provincial Council at the end of 2019 and communicated to Infrabel who wished to change certain clauses. It seems that the changes requested by Infrabel were never formally sent. Minister, can you tell me what's going on with this case? Can you tell me what's keeping you from moving forward? When did the last contacts between Infrabel and the various actors in this file date? What was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Cornet, this is indeed an important issue for mobility in the city of Namur, since the railway access to the SNCB workshop in Salzinnes makes it difficult to access the new provincial campus along the Sambre River. This is why solutions have been sought for some time already, by the province of Namur and Infrabel, the infrastructure manager. The province of Namur is committed to funding works to be carried out by Infrabel to allow a secure crossing of the railway and to ensure a second access to the provincial campus. This case was complicated by a misunderstanding, I'm told. A draft convention was drafted by Infrabel and forwarded to the province in June 2019 with several questions and requests for clarification. This document, which was to be considered only as a project and not as a final document, was presented to the Provincial Council on December 13, 2019, which therefore deliberated on a document that was not final. In these circumstances, it was not possible for Infrabel to accede to the request of the province of Namur to then submit the non-final document to its decision-making bodies for validation. However, despite this misunderstanding and under the impetus of my office, the various actors continue to talk to each other and, I hope, the aim of Infrabel is to find solutions taking into account the operational and budgetary considerations that this work represents for both parties. I personally visited the site in question. I was able to see on the spot the challenges of mobility along the Samber. One of the advanced and preferred solutions is indeed the creation of a tunnel under lanes to make possible a second access to the site on the side of Woitrin street. It was therefore agreed between the two parties to draw up a new amendment to clarify and supplement the contractual provisions contained in the draft convention countersigned by the provincial authorities. This amendment has been the subject of various exchanges and contacts over the last few days. A meeting between the two sides is expected in the coming weeks. I will of course remain attentive to the evolution of these exchanges in order to finally be able to reach a conclusion in this matter, insisting on the fact that the province of Namur is making a real commitment that finances the work necessary to improve mobility in this area as it was originally committed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u13	Minister, I thank you for your clarifications and your response, but also and above all for your action, which has clearly brought to light this misunderstanding between the different parties. I hear that you have given impetus, that a new amendment can be voted on and that the parties are talking to each other. This is already an improvement from a few weeks ago, when I tabled this question. As you said, the province is committed to funding a series of mobility solutions. I thank you for the role you have played so that Namurians benefit not only from an accessible administrative house but also globally from a mobility that is improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u14	Minister, in March last year I asked you a question about Ninove's station environment. You then gave an update on what was going to happen there. We've been a year and nothing has changed in the meantime. I would therefore like to ask you that question again. SNCB had the plan to make both station parkings pay. This hasn't happened by now. Is that plan still on the table? How's that going? When would this be introduced? What are the plans for the station building? In the meantime, the counters are closed and the building is empty, largely unused. What will happen to the station building? How concrete are the plans for the reconstruction of the station square? This has been the case for many years. Is SNCB still involved in this project or is it entirely the responsibility of local government? Are there any calls out there? What can be expected of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u15	We often talk about the problem of payment parking, which is not new. We do not consider this logic to be so obvious. We fear that many people will not take the train because of the additional costs. VIAS even says that public transport was a loser during the corona crisis, which has to do not only with the virus, but also with the higher costs for public transport and the subsidising of commercial vehicles. The costs for commuters to park are of course also additional costs for train passengers. Minister, what about the plans and the station environment? Will the parkings stay for free or not? What's the situation with Ninove's local government? Has the city council contacted SNCB about the paid parking? Is one for or against? How do you see the future of the Ninove station building?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u16	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, Mrs Vindevoghel, in line with my ambition and with the ambition of the federal government, SNCB is also focusing on the sustainable modal shift for the forward and downstream journey to and from the station. SNCB also informs me that the talks with the municipality of Ninove about making the parkings are still ongoing. It is therefore not possible to give an exact timing or to indicate what the parking regime will be for both parkings. Following the start of the calls, the city, SNCB, De Lijn and Infrabel also started calls to study the station environment including the station building. Those conversations are still ongoing and not yet in a sufficiently advanced phase to be able to talk about a precise calendar. SNCB's ambitions in that station environment are the same as everywhere else in Belgium, namely to create a lively station neighborhood that is safe and comfortable for all users and create a station neighborhood that fully responds to the fact that there is a large public transport hub, both in terms of public space organisation and in terms of bringing together activities and housing, in order to promote sustainable movements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u17	Mr Minister, the talks are ongoing and there is no timing yet, not for the station parkings, not for the station building and not for the station square. In fact, we don't know anything yet, if I understand correctly. I'll ask my questions again in 2023. You know our position on parking. Getting people on the train is not done by making traffic to the station more difficult and expensive. It is also striking that the station building is now empty and that there is not even a beginning of a vision for it. We all know that abolishing the last points of contact and closing the point of contact were not your preferred policy choice. You talked about this with Mrs Dutordoir. However, the facts are what they are. The building is empty and threatens to remain empty. If it stays empty and is not refilled, there will be decay. This is not a structured approach of the government, which decides to make a saving and then in a certain number of months or years will see what will happen to the building. It would be a more sensible policy to tackle this in a more structured way and to talk with SNCB to find a new future for the site, so that it is maintained, at best if it gets a new content, does not have to perish and will not be worse than it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u18	First of all, Minister, you did not answer my question about the position of local government in Ninove. Secondly, our view is that parking should be free and easy to use. Allow me to quote the Green Party, which took action on Valentine's Day in Noorderkempen and stated: "Paid parking at stations keeps people away from the train." A Green Party member uses that as an argument to support that paying parking is not a good idea. Betaling parking makes it easier for people to take the train. In many places we see that the parking spaces are empty when they are paid. That's not a good evolution. Thirdly, I would like to address the points of contact. The closure of the counters will lead to the degeneration of the stations, which is quite clear. We will continue to insist that closed windows are a bad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u19	Mr President, Minister, this question already has a certain age. At the beginning of February there was a strike of the staff of Mobility Masters. Those are the people who do the maintenance of trains for SNCB. The reason for the action was to oppose the imposition of a lot of flexible working hours and the high workload. SNCB sometimes also obliges people to deal with technical unemployment. In particular, there was criticism of the fact that SNCB was too involved in staff planning. That was a comment from the staff. How did the negotiations between SNCB and the staff representatives of Mobility Masters take place? Is it true that SNCB is too involved in the organisation of its subcontractors? Is it true that SNCB is putting pressure on these companies to work as cheaply as possible? How many tasks have been outsourced to SNCB today? How many people work in subcontracting for SNCB today? Finally, SNCB wants to control subcontracting. Is it an option for SNCB to resource these tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u20	Mrs Vindevoghel, you know that favourable working conditions and workable work are essential for me, both for workers in the rail sector and outside. This also applies, of course, to the subcontracting of SNCB. It is a question of fundamental rights, on which we must be vigilant at all times and on which no one can admit a millimeter. SNCB, as a public authority, has a special role to play in the enforcement of labour law and also acts in this respect in contracts with subcontractors. SNCB generally operates on the basis of performance contracts with subcontractors, for example for the cleaning of buildings and rolling stock. This therefore applies only to a number of specific tasks. It is up to the performance provider to determine how many and which staff he is using to deliver the performance requested by SNCB. Exact figures are therefore not available. SNCB also informs me of this strike. This is a strike of staff at a company that provides services to SNCB. SNCB therefore considers that it is not up to it to express its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u21	Minister, I think it is a big problem that a large part of my questions are not answered, for example the question of the number of subcontracting. We never get an answer to questions like that. I have already put these questions in writing, but we will not get an answer to them either. I refer to what Mr Van den Bergh said recently: it is a public undertaking and we have something to say about it as a Member of Parliament. We have the right to receive information, but we often remain hungry. The previous speakers said the same thing. It is about subcontracting and we have the right to know which subcontractors there are, how many people are working there and under what conditions they are working. We have that right as a Member of Parliament. I do not understand why you give such a vague answer, Minister. That makes me a little angry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u22	Mr Minister, since SNCB's new transport plan entered into force on 12 December 2021, commuters can no longer travel directly between Aalst, Ninove and Geraardsbergen. There was a snipe in Denderleeuw which required commuters to change, but without guaranteed connection. A few minutes delay does not mean a smooth connection and an additional waiting time of 1 hour on a stretch of less than 15 kilometers long. Delays and unforeseen circumstances can always occur, but the commuters in the Denderstreek complain about poor train connections. Publicity for the car but not for public transport, I believe. Students rely entirely on public transport. It cannot be the intention to send people back to the car instead of public transport. Mr. Secretary, why did that cut come? Was that necessary? Can unsatisfied subscribers get their money back from SNCB because of reduced service provision? Finally, in the event of a delay in Denderleeuw, will SNCB guarantee the connection between Ninove and Aalst?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u23	Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB informs me that the S6 link Aalst-Geraardsbergen-Schaarbeek, which drove until the start of the new transport plan, crossed the entire Denderleeuw grid with negative consequences on rail traffic. Through a combination of platforms in Denderleeuw, the infrastructure in the station and the increase in supply on the Kortrijk-Zottegem-Brussels axis - a new IC-connection since December 2020 - and the shift from the S8 Brussels-South-Louvain-la Neuve to Zottegem in December 2021, it is no longer possible to drive the S6 between Denderleeuw and Aalst. The re-establishment of a direct connection between Aalst and Denderleeuw throughout the day is therefore no longer possible. Also an adaptation of the IC connection between Ghent and Landen or the S6 connection between Denderleeuw-Geraarsbergen-Schaarbeek is not possible due to the capacity in the North-South connection. To address this problem, SNCB is examining whether a waiting period can be given to the S6 in order to better guarantee the transition in Denderleeuw. In order to compensate for the abolished route between Denderleeuw and Aalst, two additional P-trains from Aalst to Ninove and Geraardsbergen were also installed during the evening pits, with departure around 16h and 16.30h. Also in the morning an additional P-train runs between Denderleeuw and Geraardsbergen with a stop in Ninove.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u24	Minister, I experienced it myself this week. I had to go to Hamont on the occasion of our visit. When I got to Lier, I had to wait an hour because I missed the connection. So I understand people who miss a train. I hope you will ensure that people do not have to wait an hour for the next train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u25	Question No 55024860C by Mr Patrick Prévot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u26	Mr President, Minister, recently bpost sold its Ubiway Retail branch to Golden Palace. Ubiway Retail has 170 newspaper stores, some of which are called Relay and Hubiz in and around SNCB stations. I'm very worried about that. Golden Palace bought these newspaper stores to sell her gambling products. The large number of passers-by makes train stations an ideal location for this. It would be a shame if that newspaper store became small gambling palaces. This would be completely at odds with the anti-gambling policy of this government that wants to discourage gambling instead of encouraging it. I also honestly do not see the link between gambling activities and public transport nodes. This is an activity that absolutely does not belong in a train station. I would have liked to have received a number of data from you in order to identify the problems that may come to us. How many shops does the Ubiway network count under the names Relay and Hubiz in the SNCB stations? Does the concession contract between SNCB and Ubiway provide for the possibility to place gambling terminals in those shops? Is a placement of gambling terminals allowed? Are there newspaper shops in the Ubiway network in the SNCB stations where there is already a gambling terminal? If so, how many aircraft are involved and in which stations? Has there come a question from Ubiway Retail of Golden Palace to install additional gambling terminals in its stores for which a concession contract is awarded with SNCB? How many stores are we talking about? What stations? What is the response of SNCB? What is your view, Minister, on the presence of gambling terminals in SNCB stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u27	Minister, Mr Vandenbroucke has already outlined the situation. Ubiway Retail owns 170 Golden Palace newspaper stores. A large proportion of them are located in the vicinity of SNCB stations. I think we are all right to be critical of the presence of private gambling companies and the risk of addiction risks. I note that there is sometimes striking laxity with public gambling when it comes to the National Lottery. When we look at the federal government's policy, we see that there is indeed a more aggressive promotion. I read in Mr Mahdi's policy paper that there must be festivities for 580 years of lottery, that charities should promote the support of the National Lottery more, that the National Lottery should give more publicity to drawing games and so on. Minister, what is your policy on the sale of gambling and lottery products in station environments? What is your policy regarding gambling advertising in the stations, both public and private gambling companies? What rules currently apply on the offer of concessionaires of newspaper shops in train stations? Do you think these rules should be amended? Or do you leave that to the autonomy of the concessionaires? Will this theme be included in the negotiations for the new management contract between the State and SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u28	Mr Roggeman, I think it is essential that people are protected from gambling advertising and the serious consequences that gambling addiction can have. That's what the coalition agreement says. For me, this is a crucial task and responsibility of the government. The Ubiway network has 25 relay shops and 18 Hubiz shops in a SNCB station. The special conditions of SNCB regarding concession contracts do not provide for the possibility to place gambling terminals. I would also remind you of the debate on 16 February in this committee, in which Mrs De Sutter made it clear that there will be no hidden gambling in our stations. Our public enterprises, including SNCB and Infrabel, have an exemplary role to play, as I see it. Finally, there is a further tightening of the rules on gambling. Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne is currently considering a royal decision that will impose strict rules on gambling on newspaper shops, and that is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u29	Mr Minister, I am surprised to hear you say that these concessions do not mean that gambling terminals are placed in newspapers and SNCB stations. I take the train almost daily at the station Ghent Saint Peters. There's a gambling terminal in a newspaper store. After checking with fellow party members who also take the train, it appeared that also in Zottegem station there is a gambling terminal in the newspaper shop there. In other words, SNCB has clearly misinformed you. If it is true that the concession agreement means that there will be no gambling terminal in the newspaper shop, then those terminals must be removed immediately. I therefore ask you to instruct SNCB to check all these newspapershops and remove every gambling terminal there. I am pleased that you support the objective of the coalition agreement to discourage gambling as much as possible and hope that in the future there will be no more gambling terminals in SNCB stations, but I fear that they will still be there now, knowing that Golden Palace has bought newspaper shops. I therefore ask that these gambling terminals be removed from the newspaper shops at the stations of Ghent Saint Peters and Zottegem, insofar as it is true that the concession agreement does not allow this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u30	Minister, I welcome your desire to discourage gambling and to oppose gambling advertising in the stations. But we must act properly as a government, comply with the rules that we impose on the sector and ensure that agreements are monitored and followed. No one seems to have fallen over the past few years about the presence of gambling in the stations. Now bpost that sells share to a private player, it suddenly becomes a problem. That's what I'm asking myself. In my opinion, gambling is potentially problematic everywhere, even if the proceeds go to the State, either directly through the National Lottery or indirectly via bpost. This problem has been around for longer than it is today. I would therefore like to call on you to abandon this hypocrisy. Gambling is always harmful. Any form of gambling advertising is potentially problematic, even if it is based on the National Lottery. Sports betting is always potentially addictive, whether they're from Golden Palace or the National Lottery. Let us level the bar and apply the same rigour everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u31	Mr Minister, weeding of railway tracks is crucial to the safety of rail transport and so far it has been carried out almost exclusively through the use of glyphosate. So far, the search for alternatives has been rather laborious. However, these alternatives remain crucial given the health and environmental hazards of the product currently in use. Last year, the Supreme Council of Health recommended the total abandonment of glyphosate by the end of 2022. It's 2022. At the same time, you asked Infrabel to redouble his efforts in his search for viable alternatives. Finally, the European Union has for the time being authorised glyphosate until December 2022. So less than a year is left in Infrabel to stop the use of this dangerous product for both our health and biodiversity. At our neighbours, on 1 January, SNCF confirmed its commitment: it will stop using glyphosate in 2022 to weed its ways. The operator opted for a pelargonic acid-based biocontrol product for tracks and tracks. The approaches will, on the other hand, be simply mechanically broke. Minister, what is the status of Infrabel's search for alternatives? In what time frame can we consider the establishment of a lasting solution? Would the alternative chosen in France be a viable option for Belgian railways or should other solutions be taken? In line with European imperatives and the recommendation of the Higher Council of Health, is the end of glyphosate by December feasible in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u32	I thank you, Mr President, for your question on a really important issue. Yes, chemical pesticides like glyphosate have a particularly negative impact on our health, on our environment, on our biodiversity. As I said in my general policy note, I want to act at my level and therefore replace the use of pesticides by railway undertakings as quickly as possible. This is one of my priorities for 2022 and subsequent years. This is also part of the objectives of the federal Government's National Energy-Climate Plan approved last October. I would say more than that it echoes the recognition by this Parliament last December of ecocide as an international crime in our Penal Code, a first of which Belgium can be proud. By gradually reducing the use of glyphosate by railway undertakings in Belgium, my aim is not only to protect the health of our fellow citizens, railway workers and railway workers, the residents of our railways, but also to stop the collapse of biodiversity. This must be a cross-cutting and ongoing priority at all levels of government in all departments. The reality of the field, however, is what it is. Weeding is now essential for safety issues at rail level. There's no need to talk about this. The safety of rail users is non-negotiable because, without safety, there is no freedom. We therefore need to find new, effective and practical solutions, which takes a little time, a period which I sincerely hope will be as short as possible. Since 2019, Infrabel has embarked on the progressive elimination of these herbicides. When I started my mandate as Minister of Mobility, I explicitly asked the company to speed up the movement. This is why Infrabel is continuing its pesticide reduction action plan with a focus on alternative management of natural areas and by-pass roads. Where possible, Infrabel already implements alternative techniques and appropriate management in consultation with the relevant regional public authorities. Infrabel continues this approach and actively seeks the support of academia and other infrastructure managers. In addition, like these "green" ties composed entirely of sulphur concrete, Infrabel develops other innovative projects, in consultation with knowledge centres, universities, entrepreneurs and industry, in which electrical techniques, bio-herbicides and alternative construction and plantations are evaluated through practical field tests. In the future, different techniques will be combined: mechanical management of the slopes, the use of hot water or bio-herbicides to maintain the tracks, the planting of hedges, the grazing of sheep. Each time, the overall environmental and financial impact will be assessed. In France, indeed, SNCF intends to treat with plargonic acid, a bio-herbicide whose environmental characteristics and impact on railway technical components are not yet clearly known. We must therefore take into account the following elements before considering the use of this product. In Belgium, this product is not authorised in the concentration necessary for an application in safety critical areas of the railway sector and additional authorisations would be required to use it. This product is characterized as a herbicide and is also subject to obligations for the sustainable use of pesticides under regional environmental legislation. The overall environmental impact must be considered in terms of the number of treatments needed and the concentration. The application of this product would also increase the quantities used of active substances. As you can see, this problem of endocrine disrupting pesticides that are harmful to our health and harmful chemicals for our biodiversity is a priority for me. With Infrabel, we are intensively looking for alternative techniques, in collaboration with different stakeholders. The priority in this reflection is to coexist safety of railway operations and respect for the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. I had no doubt, of course, as to the importance that you give to this matter and the priority that you give to it. I would also like to thank you for the clarification you have just given me about the French situation and the fact that it is not necessarily necessary to adopt this solution on Belgian soil without considering it further. It's obvious. What reassures me a little less is that I don't know if your priority is also a priority for Infrabel. I hear we've been working on it since 2019 but I don't hear any assurance that glyphosate can be completely abandoned in 2022, or any schedule that would be implemented today. In conclusion, I do not doubt your interest in the matter and that is what reassures me. I think we'll come up with a solution within a reasonable time. For your part, you will not be surprised that I am also very interested in the two questions that will be asked right after this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u34	Thank you, Mr Vajda, for assisting me in my work as President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, it is certainly important for our constituency, for our province of Luxembourg, the question of the reopening of line 163. At the 6 June session of the same committee, my colleagues and I asked you about the future of line 163. At the time, we were told that a study would be requested from Infrabel in order to be able to objective the possibility of reborn this line linking Libramont and Bastogne. In this case, we all need a clear vision in order to be able to respond to the demands, in particular of the friends of the rail industry, but also of the citizens who have known this line in the past and others who have seen this line evolve for other alternatives of soft mobility. Minister, has this study been carried out? What's the status? What were the criteria for developing this study? What were the conclusions? In short, can we have an overview of this line and, above all, a clear vision to share with our fellow citizens in the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u36	Mr Arens, Mrs Hanus, thank you for asking me again about the potential reopening of line 163 between Libramont and Bastogne. As you know, in the early 1990s, long before I took office, SNCB put an end to the operation of trains on railway line 163 between Libramont and Bastogne. A bus service has been set up to compensate for this end of operation: the 163B bus line is partly financed by SNCB. In 2009, still before I took office, the authorization to dismantle line 163 between Libramont and Bastogne Sud was granted by the minister responsible: the line was referred in 2011. In accordance with the current management contract between Infrabel and the Belgian State, Infrabel is required to keep the base of this line intact so that it can be rebuilt if the traffic so requires. The infrastructure manager assumes this responsibility and will continue to do so in the future. Of course, I'll pay attention to it. The terms are nevertheless important. It is a question of reconstruction, because after 30 years of deactivation and 10 years after the dismantling of the line, the plate of the track is covered with vegetation. Such an operation would therefore require the provision of substantial budgets. In addition, as you pointed out, following your questions and those of Mrs Thibaut, last June I asked SNCB for an update on the 'traveller' potential in the event of the reopening of the line. SNCB informed me that a study on the use of bus line 163B, which has been partly financed by SNCB since 1993, has been carried out by the railway company. Unfortunately, the Commission concludes that the use of SNCB transport tickets by passengers is very low.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I thought we were friends because in time, I once questioned Rik Daems about a sale of a state building. When he saw the answer prepared by his administration, he told me that he could not answer that to a friend. But I see that here, Mr Minister, unfortunately, we are not friends because you answer exactly the opposite of what we want in the province of Luxembourg! I know there's still the use of glyphosate that may help you clean this line – let's call it that. I had already asked you about the glyphosate by advising you to do like the Grand Duchy who already banned it from glyphosate because I looked forward to it. Here, I urge you to ask SNCB to review its study. I am convinced that it does not correspond to what people expect in the field. Thank you and I hope we will be friends again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u38	Mr Minister, before we go as far as Mr Arens, would it be possible to have a copy of the study that was carried out on this subject so that we can analyse it and draw the necessary conclusions? I think the three Luxembourg Members of this committee are very interested. More generally, beyond line 163, there is also the Valvert-Marbehant line that requires a vision to position itself. There are many railway lines that allowed commuters to travel or were useful for economical zoning. We need to have a federal vision. We need you, as Minister of Mobility, to help us develop this vision. It's important. If the line 163 Libramont-Bastogne is part of the past and I can only be disappointed by it, other projects in the province of Luxembourg require a clear vision on your part and on the federal side of mobility. Perhaps this would make possible the rebirth of other important projects, such as that of Etalle, which is of interest to me. We will continue to accompany you in this special watch role for the railway lines of the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u39	Thank you. Rendez-vous is considered for future commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55024883C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u41	Mr Minister, Infrabel has already communicated that she has seen an increase in her energy bill and, of course, the same is expected of SNCB, which is, of course, the largest electricity user on the rail network, since, fortunately, diesel trains have been in the minority for some time now, but unfortunately, they have not yet been completely eliminated. However, that is another discussion. Minister, what is the price increase that SNCB is expecting for its energy consumption this year? I would like to receive an amount on this and, if possible, also a division around material on the one hand and heritage on the other. How will SNCB pay for that? What budget should this be financed from? After all, it is a recent phenomenon. So I imagine this hasn't been budgeted yet. How is this financial shock absorbed? Infrabel now owns a contract with ENGIE with mainly a fixed rate. As of 2023, it has an agreement with EDF Luminus with regard to traction. Is this also a contract based on a fixed rate or what are its modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u42	Mr Roggeman, the issue of energy consumption and energy prices is a very interesting and important subject, all the more so in the context of the war in Ukraine and its impact on energy prices. Once again, this underlines the urgency to thoroughly analyse and consider our policies to reduce our dependence on fossil resources and, above all, to turn to renewable energy sources. This also applies to both our railway companies and their electricity consumption. I would also like to stress that the train is already one of the most sustainable means of transport and that SNCB and Infrabel are already making a great deal of effort in this energy change. Let me give you some examples. A significant proportion of the electricity consumed by SNCB and Infrabel is generated by green energy and SNCB also produces part of this green electricity itself. They invest in solar panels. More than 23,000 solar panels have already been installed on roofs of buildings and workshops and the installation on vermen is also part of Infrabel's plans. Renewable energy objectives are also included in the public service contract with SNCB and the performance contract with Infrabel, in accordance with the government agreement. Infrabel concludes an energy contract with an energy supplier. The energy volumes for SNCB are purchased through this contract and invoiced by Infrabel to SNCB. SNCB estimates that the additional cost of the higher electricity prices for the traction of its trains compared to 2020 is already more than EUR 51.5 million. For the non-traction, the extra cost is estimated at more than 10 million euros. In total, the additional costs compared to 2020 would therefore exceed EUR 61.5 million. These additional energy costs still have to be compensated. I am in agreement with SNCB and the government on this. The electricity supply contract for 2023 and 2024 is similar to that for 2021. This means that part of the price is composed of forward prices and part by the monthly average of the day-ahead price. For deliveries in 2021, the forward part was 70 % and the day-ahead part was 30 %. The same percentages shall apply to 2023. For delivery in 2024, the forward section will be 75 % and the day-ahead section will be 25 %. It is the variable part of the price formula. In the case of purchase, a classic price formula of A- + B-market price is used where A is a fixed price term. B is a multiplier multiplied by the market price. This is necessary to move from a fixed price for all hours of the year to a different price for normal and quiet hours. Due to the day-ahead section there is a different price per month. For forward prices, the quotations shall be taken on ICE Endex for the day-ahead market on EPEX SPOT.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I've heard 21 million euros in extra energy costs. Of course, that's a strong sip on the drink. I hope you manage to find those budgets, too. I understand that you are still talking to SNCB about this. That is force majeure, 61 million, because of the increase in energy prices and the impact of the corona crisis that has not yet been fully digested. Of course there are other factors. I read an interesting article in L'Echo this morning, as you may have seen, about a total deficit of EUR 200 million for SNCB. That is, of course, about more than just corona and energy prices. Let us be honest: in the midst of falling transport demand and more homework, you have increased the loss-making offer. Last week I also read a plea for a reduction in ticket prices. This is how it becomes difficult: if demand falls and you yourself cause an increase in supply, it is not surprising that the figures then dark red colors. You are now in the process of taking action on the ground, which goes beyond an increase in debt, which may be assumed. Indeed, an increase in the debt puts a mortgage on the rail supply of the future. More detailed measures are needed, otherwise the minister who comes after you will have to reverse your policy and reduce the supply of the railways. It might have been wiser to take structural measures from the outset to close the gap between supply and demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u44	Mr Minister, I come to you on this important issue of increasing the offer of rail mobility to and from Luxembourg city. As you have heard in my previous question, for me, developing a clear vision of rail mobility in the province of Luxembourg is my most dearest wish in this committee. It must be said that, at present, commuters taking the train to Luxembourg in the morning are entitled to an increased offer. The frequency is higher in peak hours in the morning but unfortunately it is not increased accordingly in the evening. This is a first incoherence or, in any case, a first difficulty faced by commuters, workers who cross the border every day to travel to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In the morning, it's four trains per hour and in the evening, two trains per hour. At the same time, there are additional trains in the morning starting from Arlon station to the Grand Duchy. A few months ago, as part of the P+R file, you made a commitment to increase rail supply in the south of the province before putting the Viville P+R file on the table. That was your commitment and your vision. My concern and that of the citizens of the province of Luxembourg and of the rail users on these lines would be to be able to make concrete progress towards the departure of this morning increased offer from Libramont rather than from Arlon, so that the commuters who take the train at the Libramont train station can, as in Marbehan, benefit from these extra trains during peak hours. At the same time, it would also be possible to adapt the morning offer to the evening offer in order to have a form of consistency of the rail offer on these important lines that many commuters use to go to work. I would also like to share with you a scoundrel story that has been reported to me by commuters from my region. A user of the village of Houdemont who lives about two kilometers from the station of Marbehan makes every day fifteen kilometers by car to take the train to the next station, in Arlon, because the hourly frequency is more important than in the station right next to him and yet is on the same railway line. In the face of this aberration, these shortcomings to be filled, I would like to know whether, in the context of the next transport plan, it would be possible to adapt this offer to the departure of Libramont?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u45	As I say regularly, in our committee, we learn the geography of our country. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u46	As minister, too, Mr. President. I knew the province of Luxembourg well before I was a minister. Thank you for making me dream of all these beautiful villages (Houdemont, Marbehan, etc.) Mrs Hanus, in order to make rail the backbone of mobility, it is imperative that we improve and increase train supply. That's what I've been working on since the beginning of the legislature. It is also valid for your beautiful province of Luxembourg as in the rest of the country. This can only be done gradually, but we are already moving in the right direction with the latest transport plans but also with important decisions which have been taken with regard to the links to Luxembourg, for example. In December 2020, the speed of trains on line 42 between Liège and Luxembourg was doubled in order to have a train every hour rather than every two hours. It's just an example. In addition to the modernisation of the rail infrastructure under way on axis 3 between Brussels and Luxembourg-Ville, for which we have obtained additional resources, I also wish, as already said, to improve the cross-border service to Luxembourg-Ville, which is the natural attraction of the province of Luxembourg and which, every morning, has traffic jams almost as important as those available to go to Brussels. That is why I have asked that the SNCB and the CFLs, the Luxembourg railways, be able to study together the best way to further improve this railway service between the province and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The discussions between the two companies made it possible to clarify the contours of such a study. In concrete terms, the SNCB and the CFL will jointly launch a study of cross-border passenger potential on the three rail routes linking the two countries with a focus on the development of the service to the city of Luxembourg. The study will have to assess the 'travellers' potential of the three cross-border lines by 2030, while looking for short-term improvements at the Luxembourg-Ville service which could be implemented in the next transport plan 2023-2026. These proposals will obviously have to take account not only of the 'traveller' potential but also of the availability of rolling stock, its compatibility with the two networks and the capacity of the railway infrastructure. I hope, in any case, that this study will help to make the right decisions in order to activate the potential of rail passengers in the province of Luxembourg, which would meet our objective of increasing the modal share for the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u47	Minister, thank you for the first elements of your response. However, I remain a little on my hunger. The results of this study will have to be seen, the content and conclusions of which will certainly be interesting. I maintain that adapting the morning rail offer to the evening rail offer and starting trains from Libramont seem to be preferred options. In any case, these are the ones I support and I hope that they will be integrated into the development of the vision around the important axis of Luxembourg-Ville.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u48	Mr President, the first two questions concern one and the same dossier. With regard to the third question, I am curious to know why it was joined to the other two. I assume that there will be a link in the answer and I am therefore looking forward to it. To sum up, my two questions relate to the connections at Marloie station, an important subject for all commuters and especially for students taking the train, especially towards Liège. Unfortunately, this route is quite long and in recent years it has seen some regression because of the connections that are no longer guaranteed there. For this journey from the south of the province of Luxembourg to Liège, two lines (162 and 43) must be able to find correspondence. Currently, the commuters of trains coming from Arlon and stopping at Marloie are missing the connection to Liège within four minutes. The idea is to adapt the schedule of one of these two lines so that the correspondence is ensured. According to our calculations, this would correspond to almost 45 minutes of time saved on this journey to reach the Liège region. The length of time is important over a journey time which should be reabsorbed all the more since before, this correspondence was ensured. So this is not a utopian or illusory request. The answer given by your predecessor regarding the adjustment of the schedule on line 162 was that it was necessary to wait until 2027 to adapt the schedule on line 162 Arlon-Namur. Minister, is it possible to adjust the timetable for this line or, conversely, is it possible to adjust the timetable for line 43 so that better correspondence can be ensured at Marloie station? Can this be considered now or in the next transport plan? Concerning the application file for Connecting Europe Facility (CEFACT), the issue had already been discussed on 20 October 2021. You then confirmed the desire to find additional means for the modernisation of the Brussels-Luxembourg axis 3, which for me is the backbone of rail mobility in the province of Luxembourg. In this respect, in order to mobilise European resources complementary to the Belgian means, the European Commission invited you to share in this call for projects Connecting Europe Facility, scheduled for the autumn of 2021, and you announced your intention to submit an application for this call for projects. Minister, has the file been filed? If so, have you had a return from the European Commission? What was the content of his answer and what were his conclusions? In the context of the dossier for the renovation of axis 3, if it has been retained in the context of this call for projects, how much could be allocated to this renovation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u49	Mrs Hanus, thank you for asking me again about the train in this still beautiful province of Luxembourg. I would also like to thank you for coming with concrete proposals, although it is the SNCB which determines the timetable and not the minister responsible. It is probably best that this be the case. Speaking of schedules, the slightest change of one or two minutes at a location in the network may seem to have little impact on the users involved – it may even have a positive effect – but it inevitably has a chain impact at other locations in the network. These slight adaptations can therefore have a greater effect than appears to be the case at first glance. The traffic of trains in the province of Luxembourg as well as the connections with the other provinces are dependent on many ongoing construction sites on the Namur-Luxembourg line, which has been undergoing modernisation for many years. In view of this modernization of axis 3, SNCB cannot ensure the adaptation of its short-term schedules to the area affected by the modernization work between Ciney and Neufchâteau, particularly at the Marloie station. With regard to possible future adaptations, these will of course be considered in the context of the feasibility analysis preparatory to the next transport plan. SNCB will present the results of these studies at its usual roadshows in presentation of its next transport plan. It will listen to stakeholders to consider requests for the benefit of the largest number of travellers. You have probably already had the opportunity to participate in this type of meeting. This is an opportunity to discuss live with the day-to-day managers of our network. I understand that this work causes inconvenience to the inhabitants of the province of Luxembourg, who do not hesitate to question me. But it is a necessary passage to offer them a solid alternative to the car. This is also why, in the framework of the transition plan, on my proposal, the Federal Government has just allocated EUR 42 million additional, through Belgian federal means, to continue the modernisation of axis 3 Brussels-Luxembourg. For reasons of timing, we did not file this file, in surplus, in the context of the EFC. We've filed other files. Works financed by the federal government and those which could have been financed by Europe could not be carried out jointly. It wasn't possible. The EFC continues to be a proposed funding channel. My firm is considering the possibility of filing a file in subsequent calls for proposals. CEF calls for projects are very regular. The work is therefore financed, but by Belgian federal means and not by European means. We have appealed to the CEF for other railway projects. Finally, within the framework of the Vision Rail 2040, based on the Swiss model, we are developing a system of connecting nodes in order to better coordinate the schedules of the different trains, as well as the different public transports. It is by developing an offer based on customers' needs that we will be able to make train and public transport in general more attractive. It takes a little time, which can be frustrating, including for the minister. But I think the stakes are worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u50	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers to the various questions I have asked you today from the province of Luxembourg. I remain convinced that the development of this line and, above all, the assurance of correspondence at Marloie station must remain one of the priorities. I have understood that a possible feasibility study could potentially influence the transport plan. I would like to tell you already that, on the basis of empirical evidence, this must be a priority. I hope that you will have the opportunity to support an hourly adjustment as far as possible to ensure this connection at Marloie station.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u51	Mr Minister, my question concerns the Dutch Reach, a small habit that can prevent cycling accidents in a fairly simple way. We may also need to think about a good term in Dutch. In any case, there are 330 accidents every year in which cyclists drive against an open car door. This is a form of accident which can actually be avoided very easily and with sufficient attention from the driver or passenger who wants to get out, namely by opening the door not with the hand attached, but with the remotest hand. This automatically makes a rotating movement and looks over the shoulder and in the mirror to see if a cyclist arrives. This technique has been taught in driving schools in the Netherlands for many years. Britain has now even taken over this in the so-called Highway Code. That's where drivers are forced to apply a Dutch reach. I do not know if we should go this far, but I think this simple and good habit should be taught and that people should be made aware. Driving training is, of course, a regional issue, but organisations such as Vias could give the necessary attention to this. Are you convinced of the usefulness of this little habit that can prevent cycling accidents? In what way do you want to ensure that this reflex is built into motorists? What initiatives are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u52	It's a very interesting question. By the Dutch reach we mean indeed that the door of the vehicle is opened by the hand that is furthest from the door. This automatically looks back and the approaching weak road users are well noticed. This is indeed an easy way to prevent or reduce road accidents involving weak road users such as cyclists. That is why my cabinet, in preparation for today's Inter-Ministerial Conference of Mobility Ministers, discussed the issue with the relevant regional cabinets of my colleagues responsible for Mobility. We all strive to make drivers aware of weaker road users. To achieve this goal, our Cabinets consider the Dutch Reach as an interesting tool to study in the context of driving training, which is a regional competence. The regions will explore how to raise awareness of weaker road users through driving training and will also exchange good practices, such as the Dutch reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u53	Minister, this is a positive response. I think it is right that this should be used, both in driving training and in sensitisation. By speaking about this on a TV channel, I have experienced that people then get a lot of reactions from people. It is a simple technique that can be applied very easily. That is why I think it comes down to putting it in people's minds and encouraging them to do it. I am glad that you are working on this with your regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u54	With the acquisition of Steamlink, Belgian Mobility Card, BMC, further prepares its main task of maintaining and developing the common transport ticket system of the company MoBIB and thus provides the possibility to create new digital solutions for multimodal travellers. In addition, BMC responds to the joint desire of the four transport companies to facilitate travel by public transport for intermodal customers. The addition of Steamlink to the BMC team will contribute to the introduction of these new common digital tools and services. In the long term, the newly developed solutions will also integrate the present or future private partners of the transport companies. The aim of BMC and the four public transport companies is to contribute to a large modal shift towards forms of sustainable mobility and in particular to public transport by improving and harmonising the experience of passengers. I am therefore satisfied with this evolution which will give an extra boost to intermodality. It also endorses the good cooperation between the four transport companies and their efforts to continue to innovate in the interests of public transport users. Real-time passenger information and the simplification of all steps of the journey through digitalisation are important factors that make public transport attractive. The four transport companies have been working together in this area for years. Some examples include the introduction of the interoperable MoBIB card, the introduction of common products, such as the Brupass and Brupass XL, which allow all networks to be used with the same ticket, up to a maximum of 10 kilometres from the Brussels Grand Place, i.e. the GEN zone, or the common route planner SMOP. The acquisition of Steamlink will speed up the introduction of new common and innovative digital tools to facilitate the journey of passengers. The acquisition follows a due diligence investigation carried out by the Board of Directors of BMC. The analysis and negotiations took several months and resulted in an agreement for the acquisition of 100% of Steamlink's shares with BMC's own resources. SNCB does not wish to communicate about the cost of the acquisition. The company owns 18.6% of BMC's shares. In 2022, SNCB will pay EUR 400,000 as an annual licence, such as the other public operators. BMC and the four transport companies look forward to the integration of the Steamlink team into the existing team. This strengthens strategic skills and the ability to develop new tools for travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u55	I do not hear any new, concrete things that will result from this integration. Perhaps it is too early for new initiatives. For example, I wonder if they will work together on a platform around Mobility as a Service (MaaS). I understand that the SNCB and De Lijn are thinking about this and perhaps even working on it. I think it would be better if all of this were done together. But the question then is whether or not a public undertaking should do so. It is certainly an interesting evolution, with many good intentions. It is now looking forward to leaps forward in jointly offering public transport via an integrated system, so that the traveller no longer has to buy separate tickets for bus, train and tram.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u56	Mr Vandenbroucke, road safety is a top priority for me and my regional colleagues. Together we have the ambitious goal All For Zero. That is why, on 23 November, we presented the first interfederal road safety plan at the State-General for Road Safety. For example, we are aiming for zero blind-angle accidents involving lorries. My administration does not have statistics on the number of infringements of the catch-up ban on heavy goods vehicles in the event of precipitation. My colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs Department are better placed to respond to this. The catch-up ban in case of precipitation was retained in the draft road code reform. Work on this draft has recently started again. However, nothing is chiseled in stone at the moment. I think it's best to keep this restraining order. The fact that there is no scientific evidence that the catch-up ban has an effect on road safety does not, in my view, mean that this ban should be lifted. Any driver who has already been overtaken by a truck in the event of heavy precipitation can confirm that this is not seen as very traffic safe. The introduction of this ban on 1 January 2004 was considered to promote road safety. This had nothing to do with the state of the Belgian road network, traffic congestion and so on. In the meantime, we are 18 years ahead and even though there are no investigations into this, a catch-up ban on heavy goods vehicles in the event of precipitation still seems to be a reasonable choice. The fact that Belgium is unique in this one does not change that. Any technology that can contribute to more efficient enforcement is positive, provided, of course, that sufficient legal certainty is provided. That is not clear for a catch-up ban in case of precipitation. The Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 on the designation of offences based on material evidence produced by unmanned automatic appliances has the force of proof until proven otherwise, lays down the list of infringements which can be detected by means of unmanned automatic devices. All the catch-up bans, including the catch-up ban in case of precipitation, are included. I can only welcome the use of this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I certainly do not mind that we are unique on this point. I believe that rule is useful. I listened carefully to what you said about the enforcement of ANPR cameras. It is worth investigating whether to tackle it in this way, precisely to ensure that this catch-up ban has a maximum positive impact on road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u58	My question No. 55024981C and Questions 55024988C and 55024998C by Mrs Buyst are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u59	Mr Minister, Lineas holds 70% of the market since the liberalisation of freight transport. That's almost a monopoly position. At the same time, we can see that Lineas isn't doing well. The liberalisation of the market imposed by Europe was approved by the previous governments. The European private freighters are all making a loss. Only the freighters in government hands or those with sufficient public support will survive. That's Lineas on DB Cargo's radar. Lineas is in big debt. It lost 57 million euros in the last financial year, the year before it lost 10 million euros. Meanwhile, they're torturing 270 million euros of debt. With this they do worse than the then SNCB Logistics. In order to mitigate his debts, Lineas has already sold the bulk of his track equipment to rent it again if necessary afterwards. It's also messing around at the top of the company. Bernard Gustin has been appointed president, a sign on the wall. Is there any chance Lineas will go bankrupt? Do you have a plan ready to keep rail freight traffic in Belgium operational in the event of Lineas bankruptcy? Lineas is preparing for a sale? Will DB take over Cargo Lineas? Will the FPIM, the government, which owns 10% of Lineas, agree to this? What scenario would you prefer: an acquisition by a foreign company or an acquisition of Lineas by SNCB? Do you still believe that your policy will double freight transport in Belgium by 2030? How far are we from achieving this objective today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u60	Mrs Vindevoghel, we have discussed this subject on several occasions in this committee, including on 7 December 2021 and on 18 January 2022. I refer you to the answers I gave you at the time. In any case, I am attentive to the situation, given the importance of freight transport. I've had a constructive meeting with Lineas recently. As regards the role of the FPIM in the Lineas dossier, I would refer you to the Minister who has the FPIM in his portfolio, the Minister of Finance. I have no comment on the financial situation of a private operator or its operational management. As far as the impact on the Belgian freight market is concerned, I can assure you that there is no shortage of locomotives and/or coaches and that my ambitions for freight transport are not affected. My objective of doubling the volume of rail freight by 2030 will be translated into a concrete action plan. This is being prepared by my cabinet, in dialogue with the actors in the sector. The latest data from the Railway Regulatory Body show that the tonnage transported increased by 3,65 % between 2012 and 2017 following a decrease due to the 2008 financial crisis. As regards the number of companies in the Belgian rail freight market, the Regulatory Body estimates the market share of companies competing with Lineas at 30%, with a growth of 33% over five years. This evolution does not prevent my objective of doubling rail freight transport by 2030. The economic players and the partners in the rail sector are an ally to me to make the modal shift to rail, with all the benefits that this will bring for the climate, road safety and our economy and jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u61	Minister, the fact that the company is now losing is quite problematic. It is one of the largest companies in freight transport. We're worried about you. Apparently, it's not such a big deal for you. I fear, Minister, that we will not get there. If we want to make that switch to reduce freight traffic by road and increase it by train, then we need to make more use of this. I also hear from trade unions that people are worried about the situation. As you know, we are in favour of putting freight transport back into public hands. I believe that this would be the best solution to make a real change and build up freight transport, as you yourself have indicated in your objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u62	Minister, on November 5, 2021, Marloie station was hit by a fire, about which I have already questioned you. On 7 February, the press reported that it would be necessary to wait until March to see the completion of the work and the reopening of the window. The relatively long delay is explained by the shortage of raw materials which unfortunately exists in all sectors of construction. The SNCB spokesperson stated that surveillance cameras were installed. She added: "They are directly linked to the Security Operations Center, SNCB's surveillance network". I am attentive to privacy and the protection of personal data and, in this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Minister, what kind of cameras are installed at Marloie Station? What are their goals and functions? Why were they placed? How are they oriented and what are they spinning? Do they record the images? How long are the records kept? By whom are the images viewed? Under what circumstances? What legislation do they fall under? Are similar cameras used in other stations or at other SNCB or Infrabel sites? If such cameras are common on SNCB sites, why didn't Marloie station have them before?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u63	Minister, I'm coming to you about Waremme station. Last week, it was vandalized inside and outside both on the highway side and on the dock side. This type of crime is facilitated by the disappearance of a human presence in medium-sized city stations. The social control that previously existed can no longer produce its effects: I therefore reiterate that an automaton will never replace a station manager. At each of these incivilities or crimes, it is not only a big cost to the community but also a feeling of insecurity that is growing among the population. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what solution could you consider so that stations in medium-sized cities can maintain the safety that users are entitled to expect despite the closure of the counters? Are you planning to increase the scope of Securail officers to this end? In addition to the staff, do you intend to equip, for example, the stations with surveillance devices such as the installation of cameras in order to be able to identify and prosecute the perpetrators of malicious acts and thus guarantee the safety of the people but also the preservation of the heritage of SNCB and Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u64	Mr Vajda, Mr Rigot, in this committee, we regularly discuss the safety of passengers and rail personnel and this is an absolute non-negotiable priority for me because without safety, no freedom. Without freedom, no mobility! Mr Rigot, as part of the decision taken following the discussion with the SNCB in February 2021 on the closure of windows – that of the Waremme station has been closed for much longer – I asked for and obtained a series of measures to keep the most welcoming and safe stations possible, such as the guarantee of covered and heated waiting rooms, regular maintenance, the extension of opening hours including in stations or counters had already been closed, the daily passage of SNCB employees and the search for partnerships to keep life at the station, with the possibility for municipalities or non-profit associations to benefit from preferential conditions to occupy these stations. In addition, a reorganization of Securail has been under way since July 2021. It was discussed between SNCB management and workers' representatives in December. Its implementation began in early 2022. The appointment of 25 additional Securail officers is foreseen in particular. This framework has not declined in recent years. It's growing steadily. With regard to surveillance devices, cameras are part of the overall safety approach and are part of a set of measures identified by SNCB risk analyses. It is not because there is no camera in a station that other means of protection are not implemented. Surveillance by camera is one of these security solutions that is one of the public service missions granted to SNCB. In this respect, they perform various functions: providing preventive surveillance at a distance, verifying the veracity of an alarm (called the lifting of doubt), providing remote guidance to security personnel and the police during interventions, or supporting the police and magistrates in their investigations. In this context, they obviously fall within the scope of the Camera Act but also of the legislation on the protection of personal data. Cameras installed by SNCB are fixed cameras whose purpose is to prevent, detect or detect offences against persons or property. They are placed and oriented according to the risk analyses carried out by SNCB's Corporate Security Service. Based on these analyses, cameras are placed, for example, on the docks, in the under-lane corridors or in the station halls. Depending on the results of the risk analyses carried out for each station, cameras can also be installed in other infrastructures of SNCB and Infrabel. For example, the aim is to protect buildings (workshops, signal booths), car parks or roads. However, for safety reasons, SNCB does not communicate the exact number or location of the cameras in the stations. In the case of images, they are usually kept for seven days. The images are viewed by the security personnel sworn in to SNCB's Control Rooms as part of its public service security mission. Police services also have access to the images in the manner – and nothing else – provided for by the Camera Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u65	Minister, thank you. You will understand in my question that I am relatively suspicious of the use of cameras on the public highway, in general, not necessarily at all at SNCB. I am satisfied with your response to the use of this document. You talked about your plan to keep stations alive and busy. You have also mentioned again, with good reason, the fact that abandoned stations require the engagement of Securail agents to keep stations that have been deserted by their ticket offices safe. However, this shows that before you arrived, the fact that you wanted to close windows still represented a certain inconsistency, which you are trying to fill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u66	Minister, thank you for your explanation of the security that is being put in place. I have no doubt that you are putting a lot of resources and that structural resources are there. Nevertheless, despite these means, there is this vandalism which is a fact in Waremme station. I repeat that I really hope that we can pay attention to keeping the stations alive. I know you're taking steps to that end. I also think I can say that in the daytime this station is well held because there is social control. It is welcoming and pleasant. But once the last trains have left, it is the night situation that poses a problem, both on the docks and in the tunnel or in the vicinity of the station. It is these elements that need to be addressed in collaboration with the city of Waremme and the local police, but there is a role that Securail must play. I understand that your means are not extensible at will, but I really wish we could find a solution to prevent this kind of phenomenon from happening again. I hope that this is an isolated phenomenon and that the perpetrators, through the cameras and your collaboration with the law enforcement agencies, can be identified, prosecuted and punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament 55025830C and 55025834C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u68	Mr Minister, electric steps are very often used. This raises a number of practical problems, including security. The number of accidents is also increasing. An update of the e-steps legislation is therefore necessary. An interfederal working group with all the ministers for mobility would have been set up. But recently, in our committee, we witnessed the absurd situation that the majority suddenly came to the brake on the vote on a good legislative proposal No. 2354 for the adaptation of the e-steps regulation, a proposal that we wanted to join with the opposition with great enthusiasm. Minister, what is the state of play in the interfederal working group with the Ministers for Mobility? Did the working group meet recently? If so, when and with what result? If not, when will that happen? By what time do we intend to complete the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u69	At the Inter-Ministerial Mobility Conference on 12 October, Flemish Minister Lydia Peeters raised the issue of the e-steps. I have decided, together with my regional colleagues, to set up an interfederal working group on the subject. I very much welcome this positive initiative, which again demonstrates the very good cooperation with my regional colleagues on an important issue, the road safety of those who drive an e-step. The working group met several times, the last time on 14 February. The Working Group shall examine, inter alia, issues relating to minimum age and drop zones. We have finalised the resulting proposals in a draft from the RB. This has now been officially submitted to the regions for their opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad to hear the work is almost done. I look forward to the legislative follow-up that will be discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55025132C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55025165C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u72	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u73	Minister, a great tragedy took place on Monday 7 February. A five-year-old boy was hit by a train in a railway tunnel under Antwerp-Central. The victim, the five-year-old Jesse from Hasselt, had escaped his mother's attention in McDonalds and ended up in the station. The camera footage shows that the boy walked into the station and reached the tunnel shaft towards Berchem via platform 23/24. A train driver noticed the body around 16.10 hours, right next to the tracks, but the boy was hit by a train already at 14.40 hours, according to the footage. This is a particularly tragic accident, with which we have to deal with all due respect, first and foremost for the family and friends, as I said in a previous sitting. We also need to look at the accident because it is important to ask critical questions about the safety of our rail traffic. Whether this accident could be prevented is an important question that we, as Members of Parliament, should ask. Mr. Secretary, were people found in that railway tunnel before? What precautionary measures were taken by Infrabel or SNCB to prevent such accidents? Is the railway tunnel and the road there equipped with cameras, for example heat cameras? If so, were they all in use at the time of the accident? Are those cameras being watched live by an Infrabel employee or the SNCB? Have any measures been taken by SNCB or Infrabel since that tragic event? Do you think our railways are sufficiently safe, even for children? Is there enough budget to ensure optimal safety of our railways, for example with trip mats?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u74	It is indeed tragic what happened on 7 February 2022 in the railway tunnel below the station of Antwerpen-Central. Once again, I would like to express my condolences to the young victim's family. This tragedy once again underlines the immense importance of safe rail traffic in any circumstance, which is an absolute priority for me as a competent minister. SNCB and Infrabel also express their condolences to the victims' families. The railway workers involved were and were very impressed by these unfortunate facts. The staff are therefore given the necessary psychological guidance. As usual, SNCB and Infrabel participate in the judicial investigation and do not wish to further communicate the circumstances in the interest of the investigation. For that, they refer to the parquet. Trespassing is a phenomenon that Infrabel actively combats by investing significant budgets. Infrabel has for a number of years had a plan to prevent the entry of railway sites with actions of sensitisation, repression and increased security. Together with Infrabel and SNCB, we are constantly working on rail safety. There are many working groups to improve safety. All aspects of the tragic accident in Antwerp will be analysed. Following this tragic accident at the Antwerp Central station, I asked SNCB and Infrabel to continue their efforts to make the Belgian railways ever safer. Without security, there is no freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u75	I am pleased that steps have already been taken for the staff, because I can imagine that it must be terrible to experience that. I understand that the legal procedure takes time, but I would also like to know what adjustments the SNCB and Infrabel will make to ensure that it is safer? I think it is a good thing that we make sure that people can take the train safely. I propose that we also be kept informed of the evolution of this dossier. Perhaps we can come back to this later in order to learn from what happened in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u76	Mr Toventors, in response to your questions, SNCB and Infrabel inform me of the following. Both Northern Diabolo and Infrabel are obliged to comply with the contractual terms of their agreement. The concession agreement provides for an amendment procedure which allows each of the parties to make a change only in very exceptional cases and under very strict conditions. Other amendments are possible only if both parties expressly and in writing agree. If Infrabel were to terminate the agreement with Northern Diabolo unilaterally and prematurely, Infrabel would be contractually obliged to pay substantial compensation to Northern Diabolo. As indicated in the answer to question 1, amendments can only be made subject to the agreement of both parties. The agreement included a special confidentiality clause which should be respected by the parties and which complies with the rules on public access to the administration. More than 20% of customers already opt for the train to go to the national airport, which I welcome in the context of the transition to sustainable travel. Moreover, up to the current health crisis, this percentage was increasing every year. In the coming years, Brussels Airport and SNCB will continue to take initiatives to convince more passengers to take the train to the airports, which I fully support and which I will give the necessary impetus to.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u77	It is logical, Minister, that the procedures for amending the directive are very limited and, in exceptional cases, subject to strict conditions. The unilateral termination of the contract is, of course, not at all the issue. Renegotiation may, however, always be possible if two parties are willing to talk. You're talking about 20% of the customers. That's pretty low. However, we do not get real figures on passenger transport. Nor can we see how much money has already been paid to Northern Diabolo nv. I regret that. It's about public resources. We're gonna have a hard time getting eyes on it. We are bound by a strangle contract which costs a great deal of money and which is very disappointing in terms of travel numbers. Do not simply continue, but consider how to renegotiate and seek solutions. I would like to hear you say that you want to take initiatives to increase the number of travellers, but talking to Northern Diabolo nv is one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u78	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in my city of Waremme, we are fortunate to have two important routes: the line 36 which connects Liège to Brussels but also the high-speed line following the route of the E40 motorway, which multiplies the railway bridges and the infrastructure to be maintained. As a local elected official, I make a difficult observation: Infrabel's properties do not enjoy the maintenance that can be expected of a manager as a good father. I'm talking about those bridges I was talking about. The tags cover the bridges, the earths see the wild grasses multiply, which is a call to the wild deposits of immondices - unfortunately for the Waremmians. For those who come to this commune, it is Waremme and it is the responsibility of the local elected representatives. Deputy Prime Minister, my fellow citizens have had enough! The municipalities, with the support of the Walloon Region, are constantly investing to strengthen cleanliness and fight against illegal deposits, to have awareness-raising actions but also remedial actions regarding clandestine and other deposit situations, but the glance raises questions. It's an extra city entrance for Waremme. This is the first thing visitors see of this city: its bridges that are tagged. How do you intend to contribute to this recurring problem? To what extent can you strengthen the cleaning teams to enhance the art works? I can imagine how difficult this situation is for you, but I hope you can give us some positive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u79	In general, Mr.Rigot, Infrabel maintains all the property, buildings and land of which she owns, in the most appropriate manner possible, in accordance with the tasks entrusted to her; this will still be included in her future performance contract. Like other public or private institutions, however, Infrabel is also confronted with incivilities and acts of vandalism that are never acceptable, of course. In the event of damage and illegal deposits, a complaint shall be lodged with the competent police authorities. Like your fellow citizens, Infrabel is primarily the victim of disrespectful behaviour, environmental violations and frequently has to bear significant costs arising from the cleaning of slopes or the vicinity of railway installations. In the specific case of Waremme, you should identify more precisely the sites to which you wish to refer; in the Waremme region, the railway line extends for no less than 20 kilometres and the surrounding land is mostly owned by SNCB and not by Infrabel. The bridges belong partly to Infrabel but also to the Walloon Region and the city of Waremme itself. I share the concern of the Waremmiennes and the Waremmiens to fight, globally, against all the incivilities observed in the vicinity of the railway field. It is only together, with all the public authorities and each individual person, that we will succeed in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u80	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm going to clarify which bridge it is, and that was in my question. The most worrying bridge is the one located at the motorway exit on the Roman Chaussée and overlooking this highway. If you come to Waremme by car - not by train, otherwise you will not see it - I can assure you that it is a horror of tagging. I don't know if it's an Infrabel or SNCB bridge, but it's neither communal nor regional. Since you are the minister responsible, may I ask you to tell me how you will act to remove these tags? I know you're a victim, but we're also victims because we're seeing damage in our communal territory, and I know how my communal services are working to clean up these tags. My question is, how will you act to remove the tags from this bridge and return it again in its pristine state? Rubbing it, very concretely, we need it to be rubbed. That's what I expect as an answer from you, minister. I don't know if you can answer my question now or next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u81	Mrs Buyst is on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u82	Mr Troasts, the Amsterdam-Brussels line is an important link between the two countries, both for international and internal Belgian rail transport, and fits in with my vision of a robust European rail network. The current cooperation between NS and SNCB on the Brussels-Amsterdam axis runs until December 2024. NS and SNCB are jointly exploring the possibilities of continuing this cooperation from 2025 onwards. The consultation takes place in a constructive atmosphere and various ideas are being examined to improve the customer experience. I can reassure you, on the basis of the available elements, all Belgian stations which currently have a direct connection with the Netherlands will retain them in the future. This also applies, in particular, to the station Noorderkempen; that was a question from Mrs Buyst. The direct connection between Brussels Airport-Zaventem and the Netherlands is also maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u83	Minister, that was a very clear answer. I deduce from your reply that the five stations that were called "Noorderkampen" you were talking about, but it is also about Antwerp-Berchem, Mechelen, Brussels Airport-Zaventem and Brussels Noord's train will continue to be visited by that IC train Amsterdam-Brussels. I welcome that. I wonder how the initial target from the Netherlands to shorten travel time will be achieved. For that I will of course wait for what will come out of the bus at the new agreement from 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u84	Mr President, Minister, for both questions I would like to refer to the text as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u85	We have discussed the subject of parking at SNCB stations on several occasions in the Mobility Committee, even today. SNCB always consults with the local authorities concerned about its parking policy. In Beveren it's no different. Since 2009, SNCB has gained experience in the management of parking areas and established that pricing works. This stimulates the modal shift towards sustainable and green mobility modes. For a more comprehensive answer, I would refer you to my answers that I have given on parking policy since I joined almost every Mobility Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right that a lot has already been said about parking at the stations. At each committee meeting, however, a new SNCB-parking area appears on which questions are asked. I only note that Beveren is also very unhappy with the way things are going. Taking the train is encouraged. People come in by car and want to leave their car at the station to take the train there, so they cooperate on the modal shift. With Flemish interest, we regret that these people have to pay for the parking. We don't think that's much of a stimulant. Mr Vindevoghel has just pointed out that colleagues of yours, at least members of the Green Party, held a protest at the Noorderkempen station against paid parking. I hope you share the view of your Green colleagues. I actually expect you to deal with the existing SNCB strategy on parking in the new management agreement, the public service contract that we will soon be facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u87	As you know, Mr Toventos, improving the accessibility of the Belgian stations is an absolute spearhead of my policy, for which I have been putting my full weight into battle since my arrival, and I will continue to do so in the years to come. This ambition is part of the coalition agreement and is also included in my policy paper and in the Federal Disability Action Plan. Currently there are 75 fully autonomous stations in our country and my goal is to target 150 stations by 2025 and 250 by 2030. I had already requested additional investment funds of EUR 25 million from the RRF-Boost Plan to speed up the modernisation of stations and stops, for example by increasing platforms and installing ramps or lifts. Two weeks ago, the Council of Ministers also approved my transition plan of EUR 250 million for rail. Once again, it is a new package of major investments in rail to give the train the place it deserves in our mobility. SNCB will receive a further EUR 28 million within that transition plan to improve the accessibility of its stations. About half of this amount is earmarked for digital accessibility projects. This includes a new application to facilitate support requests from people with reduced mobility, a QR code system intended to help people with visual impairment navigate the stations, the modernisation of the reservation interface for groups and the purchase of vending machines that better meet the needs of people with reduced mobility. The rest of the EUR 28 million will be spent by SNCB on increasing and resting the platforms. In some fifteen stations work is being done to make travellers more accessible. Finally, I would like to stress that this is not, of course, an end to me. It is my ambition to move forward, both in terms of the available budgets and the number of stations we want to deal with. The train can only become the backbone of our mobility if it is accessible to everyone and no one literally remains on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u89	Minister, a new air cargo channel has been established between Kashgar airport in China and Liège airport. 1. How many flights have there been between Kashgar and Liège Airport in the last 12 months? Are further flights scheduled in the coming days between Kashgar and Liège Airport? Or were these flights suspended? 2. Are there any other direct air connections between Xinjiang in China and Belgium? 3. Under what permit did these flights land at Liège airport? Why was the first flight not sanctioned, which was operated without demand for traffic rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u90	Mr Cogolati, regular air links between two countries are regulated by the traffic rights which were themselves defined in the negotiation of a bilateral agreement between these countries. The bilateral agreement between Belgium and China therefore specifies the number of routes China can make to Belgium and the number of routes to China allocated to Belgium. The Minister of one of the two countries in charge of the proper application of this Agreement may grant traffic rights only to airlines in his country by ensuring that they do not exceed the number of routes defined respectively. The traffic right granted to a Belgian company does not mean the airport of departure but the airport of arrival, whether in Belgium or China. It just gives a national company permission to rotate between our country and another country, in this case China. In the present case, therefore, it is a Chinese company whose authorizations to operate were given by the Chinese minister without any prior information being given to Belgium because the authorisations are in accordance with the prerogatives granted to each country. The only elements that fall under the responsibility of the air administration, DGTA, are the verification of the correct application of the European rules on the transport of dangerous goods – a company is supposed to declare this spontaneously – and the verification that the aircraft's load does not exceed the maximum take-off weight, as certified by the manufacturer. To this end, DGTA organizes ad hoc inspections. The verification of the goods carried shall be carried out by customs in accordance with the rules which they apply. Based on the information available to my administration, there were three direct flights between Kashgar and Liège on 17, 28 and 29 January 2022 and none in 2021, the route being very recent. According to information received by DGTA from the airline AirX Charter under the Maltese flag, these were ad hoc charter flights for one-time needs. There would be no flight suspension. Moreover, there are no planned flights. At least my services did not receive requests for traffic rights. DGTA also informs me that there are no other flights between Belgium and Xinjiang. The flights of 28 and 29 January were indeed operated on "non-scheduled" traffic rights which my services granted to AirX Charter in response to their request. The flight of 17 January did not have a traffic right and the airport of Liège was also not informed. DGTA contacted the company to remind them that for flights to or from a destination outside the European Union, a European airline also had to apply for traffic rights. The airline claimed that it was not aware of this requirement although it did apply for the other flights. The inspection services of the DGTA were informed of this, but in the case of a first infringement, there was no sanction. It goes without saying that we will remain very attentive to the practices of this company in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u91	Minister, I do not ask you many questions, but I thank you for the length, detail and extremely comprehensive aspect of this answer. I will also ask your colleague the Minister of Economy about the content. Indeed, I believe that our country also has a duty of vigilance and consistency with regard to the risk of importing products from forced labour, which is unfortunately known to be extremely widespread in Xinjang.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u92	Mrs Vindevoghel and Mrs Buyst are absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u93	Mr Minister, on 18 February, when storm Eunice crossed the country, hundreds of passengers were stuck in the stations at midnight, because they had not taken the train in the course of the day and were then told that rail traffic had been shut down. The day before, however, almost all weather stations and weathermen had stressed that storm Eunice might be the worst storm in 30 years. That is why code orange was proclaimed in the provinces of Antwerp and East and West Flanders. So that's a big part of Flanders. Code orange means that there is a high risk of significant damage and nuisance and serious nuisance to traffic. Our neighbours in northern France and the Netherlands had already decided and communicated on 17 February that train traffic would be shut down day after day in order not to take any risks. That did not happen with us and people could just take the train in the morning. Next, around 11 a.m., there was a message that rail traffic would be shut down anyway. To the extent of disaster, the SNCB website and app, the main source of information for many travellers, were therefore faced with technical failures. In other words, it was a communication failure. Frankly, I fell off my seat when the Infrabel spokesperson said that it had been hoped that the trains could still run and that there is a different culture in the Netherlands in that area. Like it's folklore in the Netherlands to stop trains. No, a safety culture has been demonstrated in the Netherlands and Northern France, where there was no risk of the worst storm moving over the land in 30 years, with trees falling down and those that sometimes fall on the tracks. That was also the case in our country, but Infrabel hoped it wouldn't go that fast. Mr Minister, why did we wait until Friday to take a decision that was already taken in France and the Netherlands on Thursday on the basis of exactly the same information available? When exactly was the decision to partially stop rail traffic taken? How did the first communication with the travellers follow and when exactly? What caused the technical malfunctions of the app and the website? How is such a communicative disaster avoided in the future? What lessons do you draw from that? What are your views on the Dutch safety culture, where preventive action appears to be taken more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u94	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u95	Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Troast, first of all I would like to express my deepest sympathy with all the rail passengers who, on 18 February, were disturbed by the storm Eunice by temporarily stopping traffic on some lines. I am very aware of the damaging impact that this has had on all those who have been stranded, detained or missed their connection that Friday. Infrabel has apologized to all affected travellers. As regards the questions concerning the management of that crisis, in particular the decision-making process concerning the decision to close the rail network, your questions can be grouped into four categories. A first category of questions concerns the decision-making process as such and coordination between Infrabel and operators, including SNCB. A second category concerns the cooperation of Infrabel and SNCB with the weather services to assess the risks. Next, the communication aspect of the decision to close the rail network is, of course, essential for all customers and rail users. Finally, there are questions for clarification about Infrabel's decision, particularly in relation to the decisions of the railway system operators in our neighbouring countries. The first element concerns the decision-making process as such and the coordination between Infrabel and the operators. Where extreme events are identified that may have an impact on the operating conditions of the rail network, in particular through the use of RMI data in the event of meteorological failures, Infrabel shall inform railway operators directly 48 hours in advance. On that basis, maximum coordination with the railway operators shall take place. This coordination will, of course, also address the possible consequences for the management of rail traffic. In line with that schedule, Infrabel took the initiative to inform all rail operators of the storm Eunice on Wednesday 16 February, as the information received from the RMI indicated a yellow code, meaning vigilance, with the announcement on Thursday that the situation was moving to orange, which means be prepared and follow the advices. On Friday morning a confirmation of the weather data was received. I'll come back to that later. This brings us to the second set of questions, in particular about the interaction of Infrabel and SNCB with the weather services to assess the risks. On this point, the answer is clear, as Infrabel and SNCB maintain an intensive cooperation with the RMI. On the basis of the information provided by the Institute, the Infrastructure Manager Infrabel and SNCB shall monitor and interpret the data in the light of their own activities and determine, in the light of the climate plans envisaged and under the transport contract linking them or leading to a situation which may affect the functioning of the rail network. I would point out once again that the sole purpose of all the analyses and operational decisions of both Infrabel and SNCB is to guarantee the safety of everyone, both passengers and staff in the railway sector. This has been the case in the past and, of course, this was also the case in the management of the storm Eunice. On the issue of the communication of information on the closure of the rail network from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m., after the decision was taken by Infrabel on Friday morning, i.e. after the morning rush, Infrabel and SNCB organised several coordination meetings to manage the consequences of this decision. Since rail traffic was interrupted only on part of the rail network, Infrabel, to make it easy for everyone, shared a network map showing which lines were affected. Infrabel and SNCB then decided to communicate together to inform passengers that they had to return home before noon and that train traffic was expected to start again from 18 hours. A Belga alarm was sent out and a campaign was conducted in the media and on social media. The information was also shared through the information application for SNCB passengers. All this was done to ensure that the information was disseminated as quickly and widely as possible, but also in a targeted way to rail passengers. As regards the specific questions relating to SNCB's communication channels, I can inform you that the SNCB website has been down for 50 minutes. By default, this website can process 100 requests per second, which is more than sufficient in normal circumstances. The website got into trouble when there were 4,000 requests per second over several minutes. Immediately measures have been taken in SNCB's data centres to increase capacity to 6,000 applications per second. However, it takes a certain amount of time before the website can be placed online again. The last series of questions concerns the management of the storm Eunice. You are asking for clarification on the decisions that Infrabel has taken, particularly in relation to the decisions of the railway system operators in our neighbouring countries. To answer this question, I think it is necessary to go into the facts in chronological order and place them in the context of the management culture of Infrabel and SNCB. For example, on Thursday 17 February France announced that rail traffic at the border points would be suspended from Friday afternoon. The Dutch Railways also announced on Thursday evening that they had decided to stop train traffic completely the next day from 2 p.m. In Belgium, the recommendations of the RMI on Thursday changed from code yellow to code orange, initially only off the coast and then also for the provinces of Antwerp and East Flanders. On the basis of these new recommendations, Infrabel has had more contact with the railway operators SNCB, Thalys, Eurostar and Lineas, to keep them informed of the evolution of the information and to warn them that the rail network might have been disrupted. On Thursday, it was thought that the recommendations of the RMI, which at that time concerned only part of the Belgian territory, would evolve in a positive direction, but on Friday, when the latest predictions of the RMI left no doubt about the trajectory and the strength of the storm, Infrabel took the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the rail. The infrastructure manager has therefore decided to stop train traffic throughout West Flanders, in 90% of East Flanders and in a large part of the province of Antwerp from 14 hours to at least 18 hours. In addition, speed restrictions were introduced on the rest of the rail network and on the high-speed lines. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to take a first look at this crisis and how we managed it as well as possible. First of all, rail safety was always guaranteed and never called into question. Furthermore, we can only praise the work of the operational teams of Infrabel and the SNCB who worked on Thursday night, the following night and at the weekend to control the situation after the incidents caused by the storm. Thanks to their work, Infrabel and SNCB were able to ensure that train traffic started again from Friday at 18 hours and was almost normal on Saturday, as opposed to rail networks and passenger operators in our neighbouring countries, who sometimes had to wait until Sunday until train traffic returned to normal. However, I must also point out that the absence of a decision, even if justified by the desire to continue ensuring rail traffic for rail customers as far as possible, has caused real problems. Of course, rail and passenger safety is paramount, as is always the case with all the decisions taken by myself and Infrabel and SNCB. However, this does not mean that there is no margin for improvement, particularly in terms of communication with travellers. Immediately after Infrabel's communication, I showed my dissatisfaction with the lateness of these actions. I immediately requested an evaluation of this decision and the decision-making process from Infrabel in order to avoid such situations in the future. Clear and, above all, timely communication should always be the guiding principle, even in emergencies, if circumstances permit. This is an essential part of a quality service, with customers and travellers at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your long and punctual answer. I'm satisfied with that. I agree with the praise you give to the personnel responsible for managing the crisis, especially the staff on the platforms, the stations and the trains. That staff was also the victim of crisis management that block in lateness and flaws. I find it incomprehensible that until Friday morning people hoped that the impact of the storm would be limited for our country, while on Thursday all possible news reports warned us about code orange, for the heaviest storm in 30 years. Measures have rightly been taken in France and the Netherlands. In Belgium this was done too late. I have a second observation, which I hope will emerge from the evaluation. I am glad that you responded yourself, Minister, because that is very important. You're saying that Infrabel decided at 9:00 a.m. on Friday morning to stop some of the train traffic. SNCB's first tweet dates from 11:23 a.m. That's 2.5 hours later. At that time tens of thousands of people had taken the train, whereas the decision had already been made that rail traffic would be shut down. I find this unacceptable in 2022. I don't understand how this happened. If we decide to stop rail traffic, we must immediately inform passengers instead of holding all kinds of coordination meetings. I believe that Infrabel and SNCB have abandoned the traveller. I do not think this should happen again. I hope you will take care of that, Minister. Hopefully there won't be another Eunice or another storm coming at us. However, I believe that we can learn a lot from Dutch security culture that the Infrabel spokesperson talked about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u97	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke has already raised many points. I had the same thought. You have outlined a very comprehensive timeline in your reply. Of course, that makes sense, it is not difficult to ask for all this and to put it together. However, I find it incomprehensible that we should meet at 9 a.m. and not communicate until after 11 a.m. So communication is waiting for more than two hours. I find that incomprehensible. The app and the website were also not equipped with a huge amount of users in terms of capacity. That can be remedied in the future, I suppose. It is also said that security is at the heart of the matter. I don't think that's much more than usual. I am surprised that people say they are taking decisions on the basis of the recommendations of the RMI. I hope that this does not suggest that the recommendations of the RMI were not clear and that some of the responsibility is being set aside. I think everyone knew xrl what was coming at us. Indeed, in the Netherlands and France, the decisions that forced themselves into being were taken much faster in the context of their safety culture. With us, the train passengers have gone to hell for what I call amateurism. I read that in the reactions too. Amateurism, unacceptable, your words, incompetence trump card, a misfit, that's all things we've been able to read. I hope that the necessary measures will be taken to ensure that this situation does not occur again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u98	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55025481C) by Mr Loones and Mr Lohn-Bendit, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Senesael's 55025515C were postponed. My question No. 55025577C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u99	Mr Minister, in Diepenbeek, the contractor BESIX is currently carrying out a great deal of work on behalf of Infrabel. A series of railway crossings will be abolished and replaced by a bridge or a tunnel. A year and a half after the beginning of the works, however, the problems accumulate. According to the newspaper, there are blocked driveways, water in cellars, cracks in facades and walls and other damage. In Bilzen also plans Infrabel to consider the abolition of a series. I have a number of specific questions about this. When will the works in Bilzen start effectively? Has there been any cutlery made up for these works yet? Which contractors will perform these works? If a contractor carries out construction works, is there any chance that damage will be found as a result of these works to neighbouring folds and buildings as is the case in Diepenbeek? In order to avoid discussion afterwards, there is the possibility to draw up a site description before the start of the works. It must then prove that any damage is the result or not of the works carried out. Was it stipulated in the specifications that such a place description will be drawn up before the beginning of the works in Bilzen and if not, do you not think it would be appropriate to provide for such a provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u100	Thank you, Mr Raskin, for your patience. I would like to thank you for this question, which gives me the opportunity to reassure the worried locals. I think we can all agree that the performance of work will always involve some inconvenience, but that this must be temporary and limited. Of course, there must be no permanent damage to homes or property after the end of the works. However, I am convinced that Infrabel and her contractor will do what they can to put the situation right. As for your specific question about the works in Bilzen, I can tell you that the start of the works in Bilzen is planned for the second and third quarters of 2023 according to the current schedule. The specifications for the works are currently being prepared. The tender procedure must be completed after completion of the contract documents. Consequently, the contractor is not yet known. I agree with you that a good description of the situation before the start of the works is important to avoid discussion after the work is done. Infrabel confirms to me that at the start of works a site description of the neighbouring infrastructure is drawn up. This is provided for in every specifications standard and this will therefore also be the case in the context of the abolition of the Bilzen proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the cutlery is in preparation and therefore you are not yet able to provide information about the contractors. The works aren't until tomorrow either, although it won't be that long. We agree that the nuisance should be limited and not permanent, but have I understood you correctly that, in order to prevent such things, a place description will be drawn up of the buildings in the area where all works will take place in Bilzen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u102	I'll repeat the sentence. Infrabel confirms to me that at the start of the works a site description of the neighbouring infrastructure and of the neighboring houses is always made. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u103	That's obvious, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u104	Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Amico's 55025625C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u105	Minister, at the end of November you signed an inter-federal road safety plan with your regional colleagues. The plan has the ambition to reduce the number of road deaths to zero by 2050. One of the federal measures in the plan is the modernisation of the road code. How's that going? When can we expect a design? How is the consultation with the regions going?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u106	Everything is going smoothly and constructively. Road safety is a top priority for my regional colleagues and for myself. That is why we have jointly developed the first inter-federal road safety plan. The plan was proposed on 23 November 2021 at the State General for Road Safety. Work on the reform of the road code was restarted at the beginning of this year. The working group, formed by the regional and federal administration concerned, meets on a very regular basis, and the consultation takes place in a constructive atmosphere, as we all agree with each other. The question of the division of powers between the regions and the federal level is central. That is a legacy of the most recent state reform. The Working Group is currently working out a method to find creative solutions. Modernising the road code is not just part of that major road code reform project. Thus, together with the regions, we are also working on other adjustments to the traffic regulations. An interfederal working group examines the problem of propulsion equipment such as e-steps and examines the changes required to the traffic regulations. In addition, in consultation with the regions, an amendment of the traffic regulations relating to the concept of the centre lane is also being prepared, parking in places equipped with a loading infrastructure for electronic vehicles, and the place on the public road of recumbents. So the modernisation of the road code is not limited to the major reform project, which I work constructively with my regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic719x.u107	I am pleased that the consultation is going well and constructively, but you have not answered my question when to expect a draft. After all, that is what interests me most. I will not claim that the reform of the road code is simple, because the opposite is true. Your liberal predecessor did not succeed in the project during the previous legislature either. It is once again prominent in the coalition agreement. You also often refer to it in your answers. At some point this reform must be carried out, all the more so because it seems that Mr Torbars has already referred to it, which makes the absence of the road code more difficult for the committee's legislative work. It is all too easy to say that one or the other text is not being worked on, because the reform is being prepared and consultation is taking place. We were ready to approve a good proposal from our colleague President on the e-steps, but your advice, Minister, that you are working on something while you are not landing it, has resulted in your acolytes putting the proposal in the drawer in committee. So come now with the revision of the road code or let Parliament do its job when nothing comes from the government.
