ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u1	Minister, the Secretary of State in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mathieu Michel, had indicated that the site of the prisons of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael would continue to be occupied beyond next autumn, the deadline for the relocation of the detainees to the new prison in Haren. You said that the prison in Saint-Gilles would continue to be used partially until the end of 2024, in order to obtain an overall capacity increase in the short term. We have consulted the multi-year plan running until 2026 for the real estate needs of the Régie des Bâtiments and we do not see any of the three prisons in question. Can you explain why they were not here? Can you clarify the situation of the occupation of these prisons beyond the deadline of 2024? When will these three prisons be fully released?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u2	As far as your first question is concerned, the reason why there is no longer any investment in the multi-year plan is simply that the decision to keep the site or sites temporarily open was taken after the development of this multi-year plan. In addition, this plan includes only "major" projects. The Régie des Bâtiments also has an annual list of investments and a maintenance list in which smaller works or interviews can be planned. For the details, I refer you to the competent colleague. Let me turn to your second question. As mentioned, the Forest prison will be closed as soon as the detainees who are there are transferred to Haren. The detainees in Berkendael prison will be transferred to Haren prison, and his fate is being studied. The prison in Saint-Gilles will remain partially open, at most until the end of 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u3	Thank you, Minister. Therefore, as far as my third question is concerned, if I understand correctly, the prison in Saint-Gilles will also be released in 2024. Thank you for your answers. As a reply, I am informing you of a motion that was voted on last night in the commune of Forest regarding the future of the site of the prison of Saint-Gilles et Forest. This motion was voted on at the Forest Communal Council on the initiative of the PTB and is addressed directly to the federal government on at least three points, which I would like to refer to you here today. The first is to ensure that the site of the three prisons remains 100 per cent public. Second, clarify the federal government's position on the current occupation and future allocation of the site. Finally, thirdly, to consult with the regional government to set up a project of temporary occupation of the site, in collaboration with the municipalities of Forest and Saint-Gilles, the inhabitants and the actors concerned. I think I will come back to you a posteriori with a question on these three points, and I would like to hear your answer on the more determined guarantees on your part to meet the expectations of the citizens as expressed at the Forest Communal Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u4	Minister, on 1 February 2022, we questioned your colleague, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Sammy Mahdi, about some of the leaders of the Groupe Islamique Combatant Marocain. This network was responsible for, among other things, the quadruple train attack that cost the lives of 191 people in 2004. We presented to the Secretary of State a list of the following terrorists: Abdelkader Hakimi, Khalid Bouloudo, El Houcine El Haski, Mourad Chabarou and Mostafa Lounani. On the basis of our previous questions to the Secretary of State, we understand that at least one person has Belgian nationality. What person are we talking about? When did this person acquire Belgian nationality? Was his membership of this GICM network charged when granting Belgian nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u5	You asked Mr Mahdi exactly the same question and he gave you a detailed answer. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u6	That's a shame. The answer you interpret as'very extensive' was absolutely not enough for us. That is why we have retabled this question. I'll try to find out in other ways. Apparently, neither you nor your colleague Mahdi would like to admit that the Belgian State is distributing Belgian nationality to people involved in very bloody terrorist attacks that have cost the lives of 191 innocent people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u7	Madam President, Minister, a small mistake has crept into the title. It is not about criminal environmental disputes but about environmental disputes in their entirety. Since this year, the Court of Appeal of Mons has a chamber dedicated specifically to civil and criminal environmental disputes. That is a huge step forward and it can be an example for the rest of the arrondissements and resorts. In other districts, too, there are often magistrates who specifically focus on criminal law environmental matters. The Institute for Judicial Training (IGO) also provides specific training courses. It is intended that the initiative in Mons will ensure a more efficient and quality management of environmental matters, because the specialised magistrates can really deal with this matter. In your 2022 policy paper, you write: "We seek the advice of the College of Courts and Courts and of the College of Attorneys General, to appoint in each parquet a reference magistraat for crimes specific to environmental law, as well as a court specialized in this matter that could deal with the environmental issues that are brought forward by the public prosecutor. In consultation with the lectures, we ensure the legal anchoring of the specialisation of magistrates and prosecutors in the field of environmental crime." The latter is also mentioned in the government agreement: "There will be a legal anchoring of the specialization of judges and prosecutors in the field of environmental crime." Minister, what is your response to the initiative in Mons? I think that is fine and I hope to be present at the formal installation meeting in a few weeks' time, on which your presence has also been announced. Secondly, have the opinions of the College of Courts and Courts and of the College of Attorneys-General already been received? If so, what is its content? Thirdly, when will the legal anchoring of the specialization of magistrates and judicial staff in the field of environmental law be achieved? What route is planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u8	Mr President, I have, of course, been informed of the initiative taken by the first President of Mons' appeal court to set up such a specific chamber. It is in fact a chamber with three advisers who will decide both civil disputes and cases relating to urban planning permits or noise pollution, as well as criminal disputes such as environmental offences. For criminal matters, an Advocate General is also provided for at each hearing. At present, one hearing per month is reserved for this type of dispute, but other hearings could be added if the number of tenders in the role so requires. I responded positively to the invitation of the first President of the Court of Appeal of Mons, Mr Philippe Morandini, to attend. The fact that I respond to this invitation is, of course, a sign of my recognition of this initiative. I believe in the need for specialization, but to make it possible, there is often a need for scaling up. We can't have all the specializations in every court. Think of human trafficking, human trafficking, phishing, environment and so on. So we have to think of a higher level, as is the case here. The answer to your second question is no. We are still waiting for the advice of the Public Prosecutor's College of Expertise on anchoring the law on the specialisation of magistrates on environmental crime. We should get that advice this month. Specific training courses are offered regularly by the IGO. In the field, hearings are being held on such matters, such as in the 61st correction chamber of the Court of First Instance in Brussels and now in the specialised chamber in Bergen. Remarkably, many actors already take this issue into account in the field. Let me turn to questions 2 and 3 from Mr Goffin. I can of course only welcome the dynamism of the Mons Court of Appeal, which, thanks to a modern approach, combines citizens' expectations with justice in line with its time. As you know, the government is committed to thinking about the introduction of an ecocide crime in the Criminal Code, which we are currently doing with various experts to give an opinion in this regard. In addition, the IGO also offers training for magistrates on environmental crime so that they can acquire better knowledge about this highly technical matter. We will take into account the advice of the Public Prosecutor's College of Expertise Network to determine how we can anchor the specialisation of magistrates in the law, as mentioned in the government agreement. You see that initiatives are being undertaken both by the judiciary and by the executive, in order to respond adequately to the modern challenge of respecting our environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u9	Of course, Minister, I am very pleased that you are very fond of this initiative. From your presence within a few weeks, I'd already deduced that. We look forward to the opinions, which you believe will be available within a month. They are important for the legal development of this anchoring. There will still be some legal questions, but it is all very interesting. I also understand that we cannot do this in every court and that we need to raise it to a higher level. I hope, however, that we do not go to the level of the resorts. The new districts, which actually include the provinces, are perhaps the ideal level. That is why it is not yet necessary in every court in each district, but this specialization should be provided for in at least every district. When looking at the case around 3M and others, it is clear that the importance of using specialised magistrates should not be underestimated. You will certainly find a partner in us to bring this important legislation to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u10	Minister, Secretary of State Michel announced in November 2021 that €80 million would be made available for the construction of a new prison just outside Mons city centre. This project was confirmed in the recently submitted multiannual plan for buildings. If everything goes smoothly, the new prison will be delivered in 2030. There is therefore still a long period to be covered in which the working conditions of the staff and the living conditions of the prisoners are obviously not ideal. Detention homes can play a useful role in this type of case. We know that you are very much in favour of this. On the one hand, a detention house can in principle be delivered faster than a completely new prison and thus reduce part of the pressure on current capacity. On the other hand, it is an ideal opportunity to accommodate part of the detention capacity in such a way that better care and guidance can be provided for specific target groups, such as women in detention, older detainees, first-offers, young detainees, etc. In this way detention homes could be given a structural place within our detention structure, which would be a very nice step forward. I have some very specific questions for you. Firstly, did this project take into account the possibility of receiving part of the initially planned detention capacity through detention homes? If so, what conclusions have been drawn from this? If not, why not? Secondly, are projects for detention homes already in progress near Mons? If so, could you give some more explanation? Thirdly, how do you work with Secretary of State Michel to coordinate the capacity of prisons and detention homes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u11	Mr President, in reply to your first question, I can say that this is not the case at the moment. For the time being, a clear distinction must be made between prison projects and those of detention homes. Of course there is coordination to determine the totality of the detention capacity, but it is for the time being about a different population or target group. In connection with the new Mons prison, preparations are ongoing. A need programme will be drawn up so that an appropriate location can be sought. Your questions will certainly be taken into account when setting up the need programme. In reply to your second question, I can say that the capacity of detention homes is determined at the level of each province. In the province of Hainaut the goal is 75 places. Two possible locations are being investigated for this province, both near Mons. In reply to your third question, we are in the process of creating 15 detention homes with a view to implementing the short sentences. Once that is done, we can see how we can create a shift from prisons to detention homes. As for Mons, I can tell you that this is, among other things, an arrest house, so that a prison will remain necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u12	Minister, I appreciate the efforts you are making to establish detention homes. We have talked about this a few times in recent weeks: it is not always easy, but it is incredibly important. Ideally, we should be able to plan in order to reduce detention capacity in traditional prisons and shift more and more capacity to detention homes. In fact, together with the Regie, we should make that exercise for future projects. If a prison of 360 or 400 places is to be built, we must be able to say that we are not building 400 places but 300, and that we are placing 100 people in detention homes. I know that this is not easy to do today, but ideally that should be included in the planning for the coming years. I hope that we will be able to take further steps in the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 55025597C by Mrs Rohonyi was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u14	Minister, on the night of 11 December 2004 in East Flanders, a series of horrible facts took place. Osman Calli, a Turkish Gentenaar, assaulted and killed four completely innocent women that night: his wife, his sister, his ex-girlfriend and the mother of his ex-girlfriend's new partner. As an explanation, the unsub stated that he felt affected in his honor after alleged adultery and that he wanted to set an example for the Turkish community. Minister, I have been following the file closely. The social impact at the time was huge. After a trial, Osman Calli was sentenced to life imprisonment. Afterwards, he was extradited to Turkey to serve his sentence. In recent days it became clear that Calli enjoys the sun, sea and beach in Turkey. That's what the person concerned has declared himself. Minister, I would like to have a clear answer to the following questions, which are nevertheless captivating: 1. When and by whom have you been informed of the fact that a quadruple murderer, sentenced to life imprisonment in our country, is free and happy in his home country? 2. What is your position of principle in this matter about serving his life sentence? 3. Have you been in contact with your Turkish counterpart? If so, can you tell us the latest state of play? 4. Recently, on another matter in our country, you have rightly called for the correct information of families and relatives when murderers are released. Is that what happened here in the context of proper victimology? 5. Has the procedure before a Belgian criminal court been properly conducted? 6. Do you believe that the European Convention for the transfer of sentenced persons has been correctly applied in this area? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u15	As far as your first and third questions are concerned, I can be quite clear. The Turkish authorities have not officially informed our country of the conditional release of the person in question. This information has reached us through the press. Already in 2017, the services of the FPS Justice have asked a question about this matter to the Turkish authorities. Recently, we have also repeated the question. The Foreign Affairs Office informally asked the Turkish Ambassador in Brussels for a state of affairs. The FPS Justice has also transmitted an official request for information to the Turkish judicial authorities through the Turkish embassy. We're still waiting for the answer. In the meantime, of course, we have seen that the Turkish authorities themselves have communicated on this matter. I understand the indignation, of course. This is about someone who was convicted in 2008 for terrible acts from 2004: the murder of four women and two attempted murders. For the victims and the next of kin, this must be a sledgehammer. I discussed this in a personal meeting with the Turkish ambassador. He understood the indignation and the demand to be well informed. In order to answer your second question, we need to analyse the principles of treaty law properly. The person in question was transferred to Turkey on 28 June 2013 to continue his Belgian sentence. The Belgian justice system gave the agreement in October 2010. The Turkish authorities also agreed to this. According to Belgian law, a transfer of a person can only take place on condition that there is an agreement between Belgium and the country in question. With Turkey, that is the Council of Europe Convention of 21 March 1983 on the transfer of sentenced persons, where, alongside 66 other countries, both Turkey and our country are parties to the treaty. I should also like to point out that such transfers are the result of a firm political will on the part of several successive governments to allow foreigners, who are a threat to our public security, to serve their sentence abroad as far as possible. Once a transfer has taken place, the penalty shall, if necessary, be transferred to the law of the executing State and the execution shall be carried over and governed by the law of the executing State. Following the transfer, Belgium will therefore no longer have any influence on the criminal proceedings in Turkey. Even before the final transfer procedure, it will be announced what the punishment will be like in Turkey. This means that it will be notified whether the sentence will be transposed and when the date of possible early release will be set. In this file, life imprisonment was taken over by the Turkish authorities. He turned out to be on parole since November 2019. He has been released permanently since November 2020. Now comes the answer to your fourth question. In this case, it was not possible to inform the victims' families as Belgium was not informed about the conditional release of the person concerned. As I said earlier, this largely explains the indignation. The answer to your fifth question is that there has been no procedure before the Belgian criminal court. The person concerned was transferred to Turkey in 2013 to serve his sentence. In accordance with the 1983 Convention, the execution of the sentence is carried over to the State governed by the executing State once the transfer has taken place. Finally, I would like to answer your last question. The 1983 Convention has apparently been correctly respected with the information we have at our disposal, except for one important point: Turkey has failed to fulfil its obligation to inform Belgium of the conditional release of the person in question. That was also the reason for my meeting with the Turkish Ambassador, as you understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u16	Thank you for your detailed answer. I understand you're still waiting for some information. I would appreciate it if you could send it further or communicate it. What remains, of course, and which is particularly pressing is, you have admitted yourself, how the victims are approached in the overall course of proceedings. The image of the four victims and the two life-threatening wounded................................................................................................... Those victims must be told by the press that the unsub is free, cheerful and darting. I have not yet mentioned the compensation of the civil parties. I think you still have a job there after the answers of... I wonder how a quadruple killer will compensate the bourgeois parties. We are still a country that aspires to a serene and correct rule of law, aren't we? Another foreign treaty partner must respect that. I think that we need to make that point again and see how this can be made up for the victims, not only from the bourgeois party, but also from the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u17	Minister, it is an important dossier that has already been discussed in the Chamber. It's a file that's been on my mind for a very long time. I also try to read all the books that appear about it, and there are a lot of them. Recently, however, a book has been published by someone who may know the file best and is therefore an absolute authority. All her life she wrote about this case as a journalist. She is 76 years old and the new book The plot of silence has been released. In it, she puts a strong link between the attacks of the Gang of Nivelles and the Francois case. She has discovered that very many people who appear in the so-called Francois case of the 1970s, also appear in the file on the Gang of Nivelles. There is talk of criminals protected by the state guard and detectives who deliberately fail in the investigation of the gang members. Many detectives and magistrates would have become blackmailable by a corrupt past, making them unreliable within the gang investigation. Several of those detectives also show up in that investigation. In the book several pawns are mentioned within the state guard and detectives and their link to the criminal world is described in detail. The book is a very detailed source of information and exposes some new suspected slopes about the reason for the failure of the gang investigation. That is why I have the following specific questions. Are there any elements in the book that are new to the investigation and the federal prosecutor, which took over the investigation a few years ago? Are these elements included in the gang investigation? My second question is this. Is the federal prosecutor also investigating the errors in the '80s investigation? Thirdly, does the information from the book shed new light on the matter and does it also reveal new research trails or are there any research trails already known by the federal prosecutors and which have already been investigated? I know that you cannot answer in detail questions about ongoing investigations, so I am trying to confine myself to a number of elements of this very delicate investigation, which I hope you can say something about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u18	My answer to your first and third questions is as follows. Mrs. Geens' book was published on 22 February 2022 and has 500 pages. The contents of the book are currently being studied. The researchers and the federal prosecutor have promised me that if there are any new elements in the book, this will be taken into account and that these elements will be considered when assessing the research strategy followed. I can give you the following answer to your second question. An investigation into the 1980s investigation until now is not the subject of the criminal investigation. You know that there have already been a number of parliamentary committees of inquiry. In the current investigation, the justice system is currently focusing on getting the truth out of it by exposing those responsible for these facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u19	Thank you, Minister. I suspect that the investigators know many elements of the file, but I think that a look from an external person who makes a number of connections can also be very useful to the detectives, who were confronted with a file of hundreds of thousands of pages. I hope that the book can help to deepen a number of research efforts and possibly to find the truth. There's time until 2025. The journalist, the author of the book, expressed her hope and also thinks that there might be another trial by 2025. I'm cherishing that hope myself. She hopes that she will be able to draw up a report on it herself, because she is 76 years old. Maybe it's the last straw. In the coming years, it will be crucial to be able to complete the file and bring it to justice. I think we're all eagerly looking forward to it. We will continue to follow up on the file. I'm curious to see if it's gonna turn up any new research trails.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u20	Madam President, Minister, we were able to take note of the circular COL 10/202 on the immediate friendly settlement, the content of which was at least partially announced in your policy statement. The scope of the letter has now been extended to include a number of other offences, such as a number of infringements of the drug and weapons law. Flemish Interest has always been in favour of a lick-on-piece policy. Nevertheless, we are asking ourselves about the practical effects of this letter. The crucial question is whether this system will actually put an end to impunity. The real difficulty in implementing it remains the feasibility. The problem of under-utilization of different parquets is not new. In addition to the staff shortage, the question arises as to whether sufficient funds will be made available for the implementation of this letter. In addition, I have the suspicion that it is not a judge's job to determine the penalty for a crime. The assessment of the transfer note should also take into account the type of crime to which the amicable settlements apply and the consequences of non-payment of the amicable settlement. Think of the large number of shoplifters, for example. According to the latest figures, around 28,000 shoplifters take place on an annual basis. In the event of non-payment of an amicable settlement, there should be no more dismissal and there should therefore be prosecution. In the opposite case, the letter would be de facto empty. I have another thought. The circular contains a schedule indicating the fines to be paid on the basis of the possession of which drug, for example. Among other things, it should be noted that for possession of 11 to 20 grams of cannabis a friendly settlement of 150 euros can be proposed. Possession of 6 to 10 grams of speed, amphetamine and cocaine involves a friendly settlement of 300 euros. In the Netherlands, the user quantity for soft drugs is 5 grams, for cocaine and speed 0.5 grams. How you arrived at these figures in this letter as far as possession is concerned remains a mystery to me. One last thorny point remains recidivism. The immediate friendly settlement does not allow control of this. For example, it is perfectly possible that someone can be caught repeatedly with 10 grams of cocaine in their pocket, which is very likely not to be used for personal use, but for the sale with a street value of about 500 euros. Every time he gets caught, the unsub will get rid of it with an immediate friendly settlement of 300 euros. Apart from the fear that this will facilitate dealing, recidivism with this letter is de facto unpunished. How will you guarantee that all unpaid friendly solutions will actually be prosecuted? Will you instruct the public prosecutors to systematically prosecute non-payment of the friendly settlement? What initiatives will you take to support the parquets and the magistrate? When can the letter on relapses be expected? The rigorous implementation of this circular to actually implement the lick-on-piece policy requires an additional commitment from the police, which should be given the opportunity to carry out more checks. Has this been discussed with the Minister of the Interior? Minors are very often involved in these types of files. Has there been any consultation with the Communities when the facts are committed by minors, so that they do not remain out of the question? On the basis of what criteria are the infringements that can be punished through the immediate amicable settlement? I am referring in particular to drugs. On the basis of what criteria was the uniform rate developed for determining the fines per quantity of drugs? Do you think it is normal that some quantities of drug possession, for example 10 grams of cocaine, still justify a friendly settlement? This is no less than twenty times the user quantity set in the Netherlands. Do you not think that such large quantities of drugs for which a friendly settlement can be made will facilitate the dealing of narcotics, as the chance of taking drugs is limited? Do you not think that the introduction of the friendly arrangement for carrying particularly dangerous weapons such as spring or trap knives, butterflies or crossbows will increase their presence in the street? How will this be followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u21	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, with regard to your first question, I would first of all like to refer to the answers I gave to you and to the President of this committee on 2 February. A COL letter contains guidelines from the College of Attorneys-General to the various prosecutors, who must comply with the letter. At the moment, this letter is being transposed on the premises. In any event, the public prosecutors will take appropriate action to ensure that a friendly settlement is not paid. The College of Attorneys-General will monitor compliance with the letter and provide for an evaluation after two years. The essence of this immediate friendly settlement is speed and efficiency for the prosecution and the police, while respecting the rights of defence. This speed and efficiency is guaranteed by a digital follow-up procedure, similar to that of the traffic infringements, where payments are closely monitored and where necessary a reminder of the friendly settlement is sent. This is done in an automated way, which does not create a workload for the parquet. This succession makes it possible to maximize the voluntary collection rate, so that the parquet and the magistrate only have to prosecute in a limited number of files. This should minimise the workload of the police and the judiciary, but the rights of defence will of course remain guaranteed. This approach also fits in with the lick-on-piece policy for which a strengthening of the parquets was foreseen. For this new approach, which includes both the immediate friendly settlement, auxiliary rooms and rapid justice, 21 parquet lawyers, 21 criminologists, 14 experts and 14 assistants for the parquet secretariats were provided for reinforcement. As regards your second question, I said in my reply on 2 February that this system has the advantage of providing a national overview of the so-called backgrounds per suspect. It makes it possible for every prosecutor to develop a tailor-made approach. We are currently working on this policy but also on computer science. This will result in a new directive. The College of Attorneys General is currently working on this and the letter should be ready this summer. The police were, of course, involved in the drafting of this letter, which deals with the handling of findings that have already been made by the police. The usual procedure is that the police draw up a detailed report of each finding, interview suspects and any witnesses and transfer the minutes to the public prosecutor's office. The new approach will lighten the work of the police by using pre-printed fixing forms, soon also digitally. There is no need to conduct interviews and a simplified report is drawn up, which is kept digitally. So the police will be able to work faster and more automated. The type of crime eligible for an immediate friendly settlement as well as the amount attached to it was autonomously determined by the College of Attorneys General and corresponds to the guidelines that were already common in some local public prosecutors in our country. I come to your sixth and seventh questions. With this procedure, we will provide a practical tool after a wide consultation within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police to enable a lick-on-piece policy to be effective, a lick-on-piece policy that you support. Moreover, we do so within the margins of our rule of law while respecting the rights of defence. The immediate friendly settlement of drug infringements will be applied to checks at festivals, events and targeted actions. People who are caught with a user quantity will be subject to the redirection letter on immediate friendly settlements. I don't see how this letter would facilitate dealing. If there are indications of dealing, the immediate friendly settlement procedure will not be applied. This procedure has been in place in Antwerp since September 2013 for drug use or possession in the public domain. It has been applied more than 13,000 times to the satisfaction of traders and citizens in the neighbourhoods, who saw the nuisance decrease. Responsive action in respect of any infringement found will increase the risk of punishment. The best prevention is the certainty of the punishment and the speed with which it follows the crime. In reply to your last question, this letter does not apply to minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u22	Madam President, Minister, as far as your last point is concerned, you are of course right. That's what I said. It is true that the letter does not apply to minors, but some of the types of infringements to which the letter refers are very often committed by minors. I am thinking, for example, of bicycle and shoplifting. My question was whether you had consulted with the Flemish Minister in order to insist that certain initiatives be taken in this area as well. You have rightly confirmed that our group supports you with your lick-on-piece policy. I will follow that very closely. I hope that we will come to a situation in which, on the basis of this letter, we will act forcefully when the perpetrator is caught. You stayed somewhat on the level, but I also hope that there will be consistent action if the fines are not paid. Otherwise, it will be quite quick to say that the fine does not have to be paid, because it is not being prosecuted. If there is no prosecution, we cannot act vigorously on the basis of this letter, which is, after all, the purpose you have set out and have often announced. In any case, I wish you every success in the actual execution of this letter. We'll keep following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u23	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the Flemish interest has always been in favour of a lick-on-piece policy, but raises questions, not only as regards some of the substantive aspects of COL 10/021, but also as regards its practical feasibility; - the introduction of the COL 10/202 should first ensure that all offences for which an immediate amicable settlement has been issued in the application of the abovementioned letter are effectively prosecuted if they are not paid; - that, in the absence of this, the COL 10/021 becomes de facto totally superfluous and will continue to govern impunity; - that serious questions should also be asked as to certain offences included in the COL 10/202, in particular the sanctions imposed on the possession of certain weapons, the possession of certain quantities of drugs and the sanctions imposed on, for example, the stealing of an electric bicycle; - that possession of, for example, 10 grams of cocaine or 10 grams of speed can be sanctioned with an immediate friendly settlement of EUR 300, whereas in the Netherlands, for example, the user quantity is fixed at 0.5 grams, which is no less than 20 times less than what is proposed in the COL 10/021; - that the possession of certain weapons eligible for immediate settlement is also a wrong signal to society and does not improve its security at all; - that the problem of recidivism is not answered by this letter; asks the government - ensure that there are sufficient resources and magistrates both at the level of the prosecutors and at the level of the courts to ensure that all unpaid immediate friendly settlements are effectively prosecuted and punished; - the removal from the COL of provisions relating to possession of drugs and weapons as they stand; - adapt the provisions of the penalties applicable to bicycle theft in such a way that the penalty exceeds at least twice the value of the stolen goods; - to make every return work on the return letter; - to consult the Communities so that a vigorous policy on minors can also be developed." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - whereas Vlaams Belang has always been in favour of an immediate sanction policy, but is concerned not only about certain aspects of the substance of Circular COL 9/2021, but also about its practical feasibility; Whereas the establishment of COL 9/2021 requires, first and foremost, ensuring that, in the event of non-payment, all offences affected by an immediate criminal transaction under the above-mentioned circular can be effectively dealt with; Whereas, in the absence of the above, COL 9/2021 will become de facto totally superfluous and impunity will remain; Whereas, moreover, serious questions need to be asked about certain offences included in COL 9/2021, in particular the penalties imposed for the possession of certain weapons, the possession of certain quantities of drugs and the penalties for the theft of an electric bicycle, for example; - Whereas possession, for example, of 10 grams of cocaine or 10 grams of speed may be sanctioned by an immediate criminal transaction of EUR 300, whereas, for example, in the Netherlands, their quantity for personal use is set at 0.5 grams, 20 times less than what is proposed in COL 9/2021; - Whereas the possession of certain weapons which are relevant for an immediate criminal transaction also sends a bad signal to society and does not contribute in any way to improving its security; - Whereas this circular does not provide any response to the problem of recidivism; asks the government - to ensure that prosecutors and courts have sufficient resources and magistrates to follow up on all outstanding immediate criminal transactions and to be able to punish them; - to remove from COL 9/2021 the provisions relating to possession of drugs and weapons; - adapt the provisions on penalties for bicycle theft so that the penalty is at least twice the value of the stolen property; - immediately address the recidivism circular; - to organise consultations with the Communities so that a vigorous policy on minors can also be developed." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u24	Madam President, as you know, I have not yet been able to communicate on the state of the criminal investigation. It is not a question of standard practice at all. On the contrary, these are extremely serious and serious facts. Of course, the dossier is getting all the attention it needs. Police and justice are trying to identify and prosecute the suspects. They will be brought before the court with a view to severe punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u25	Madam President, Minister, it was not a one-off event, it happened again the next day. There will still have to be a limit on the beating of police stations in Brussels with molotov cocktails. The buildings are badly damaged, but it could be much worse. The police know she has to look for rival drug gangs. I expect a thorough investigation from the courthouse, at least to support the police forces and ensure that the perpetrators end up under lock and key, so that the police can carry out their work properly. You are always in favour of zero tolerance, but when things come to an end, such things will continue to happen. In time, they're on page 27 in the paper and nobody's looking back at it anymore. That can't be the intention. These are very serious facts. So I hope you're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I asked you a written question on the number of crimes committed. You replied: "Simplified CVs are kept only on electronic media with the police and are generally not registered in the databases of the correctional parquets. Only if a simplified report is requested by the public prosecutor in the second instance, will it be included in the crime figures. When the police services conduct an ex-officio police investigation, the case is counted only once that investigation has been completed. The figures thus reflect the number of suspects registered by the correctional prosecutors, but cannot be regarded as an indicator of the crime actually committed." It seems to me that you yourself have already come to the conclusion that a number of factors make it impossible to understand the real crime. This implies that you also know what needs to be done in order to register the crime actually committed. This is essential if we are to have a well-informed judicial policy. Do you have certain instruments to ensure that all crime actually committed is registered? If this is not the case, what will you do to obtain an overall picture of the crime actually committed? Do you not think that such information is necessary in order to be able to pursue an adequate and effective judicial policy? What do you base your judicial security policy on if you had no knowledge of the crime actually committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, the figures and the answer to which you refer concern the market statistics. In addition, police crime statistics exist. The parquet statistics refer to the number of cases opened by the public prosecutors. A case may relate to one or more facts. Not all the facts registered by the police give rise to the opening of a case at the public prosecutor's office. In this sense, market statistics cannot be regarded as crime statistics. That does not mean, however, that we do not have a picture of the crime actually committed, quite the contrary. For this we base ourselves on the crime registered by the police. Police crime statistics are published quarterly. These figures are supplemented by research into the dark number (facts not reported to the police) and security searches such as the Security Monitor. This makes it possible for us to keep our finger on crime in our country and on the policy we must pursue. As part of the promotion of public administration and the figures-based evidence-based policy, federal police publish police crime statistics on a quarterly basis. This concerns the crimes recorded by the police forces in Belgium. With this frequency of publication and without prejudice to completeness, these figures act as a measure of crime recorded in our country. The evolution of registered crime can be monitored in this way. In practice, this means that both the different actors in security policy and citizens have figures for the different levels of government. In addition, strategic long-term analysis is possible, as several years are considered. This instrument will make it possible to keep an eye on the pulse, to detect new trends more quickly and thus, if necessary, to adjust policy. Facts that have not been reported to the police and are therefore not known are by definition not reported in these crime statistics. The Safety Monitor can give a good indication for this. This is an instrument that the police have developed to assess, among other things, the dark number of crime. In addition to victimisation, this large-scale population survey also asks whether or not a report has been made. For example, previous reductions have shown that the willingness to report is dependent on the kind of fact on which one was victimized. Also for facts that are less marked, such as intra-family violence, cybercrime and discrimination, the Security Monitor provides an insight into the actual number of victims in our country. For the ongoing Safety Monitor in which the population was questioned at the end of 2021, the results are expected in October this year. The simplified minutes shall be forwarded electronically to the General National Data Bank and to the judicial authorities at the time of closure. Each report containing an ex-officio police investigation shall be forwarded to the General National Data Bank and justice at its closure. In this case, however, there will be no waiting for the complete dossier to be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u28	Mr Minister, I first addressed my question about cyberharassment to your colleague Mathieu Michel. I'm glad to hear that she's been redirected to you. I would like to take stock with you of the growing phenomenon of cyber-harassment. We often discuss this in committee. Can you already provide us with the number of ongoing investigations that concern this phenomenon? Every day, news shows its growing character. Would it not be appropriate to set up a cell that would be exclusively competent to deal with this type of phenomenon? What percentage of the population by age group has already had to deal with this increasingly worrying and growing phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u29	Dear colleague, cyberharassment is a worrying phenomenon directly related to new technologies and social media. In the last Security Monitor survey in 2018, the 15-24 age group was the most affected (6.4%) compared to the 25-34 age group (3.8%). For further details, I invite you to consult the Security Monitor via the website stat.policefederale.be. In 2020, 7,779 infringements were registered: this figure has been stable for five years. The fight against cyber-harassment begins with an effective prevention policy. Initiatives are taken both at the federal level (Child Focus) and at other levels such as the Communities. On the other hand, police and judicial approaches require a degree of proximity to the facts in order to better understand them and adapt prosecution policy, if necessary, to the problems encountered at the local level. I am therefore not in favour of creating a specific cell. In addition, there is currently no uniform directive on cyber-harassment encoding at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is important to bear in mind that this concept, which does not have a precise definition, covers a variety of behaviours adopted online, which may receive various criminal qualifications: harassment in the strict sense accompanied, for example, by threats, hate speech in connection with one or more of the 19 criteria protected by our anti-discrimination legislation or even the non-consensual dissemination of intimate content. The College of Attorneys General is currently working on a draft circular to deal with this phenomenon in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u30	I thank the minister for his very comprehensive response. These facts are not on the rise in recent years, but their number remains quite worrying. I also thank you for having responded very clearly. Compared to the tools put in place to combat cyber-harassment more effectively, that of the dedicated cell is not desirable and I understand it. You provided me with the necessary arguments. For the rest, I will consult the statistics on the recommended site.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u31	Minister, incest remains present in society and throughout the country. Many cases of incest are reported. Despite the seriousness of the act, the Criminal Code does not introduce an incest offence as such. Minister, how many cases of incest are reported each year? In your opinion, is this number proportional to the number of incest cases committed? Is a legal basis for reprimanding incest a possible avenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u32	You are asking me for numerical answers that can be transmitted by means of a written question, which I invite you to do. With regard to the draft law amending the Criminal Code with regard to sexual criminal law, which will be dealt with in plenary next week, incorporates the concept of incest in the Criminal Code. With this project, incest is an aggravating circumstance for several acts of sexual character. Criminalization of incest protects minor victims. For them, incest is always punishable regardless of whether or not there is consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u33	Here I am informed. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u34	Mr Minister, Belgium is a hub for drug trafficking, and more and more networks have recently been dismantled. The Belgian authorities are actively working to stop these traffickings. It cooperates with other countries, such as Spain, which pursue the same objective. I would like here to focus on the issue of cannabis use. While Belgium has a repressive policy on drug use, we can see that other countries, whether neighbouring or not, tend to legalize the use of cannabis for recreational use. Indeed, in 2018, Canada was the first G7 member to legalize it. In December 2021, Malta became the first European country to legalise this type of consumption, followed more recently by Luxembourg and Germany for which reform opportunities could be launched. Other countries, which do not legalize consumption, adopt a softer cannabis policy, such as the Netherlands, where cannabis is theoretically illegal. Indeed, the country is pursuing a policy of tolerance. Minister, can you tell me how many cannabis users have been identified by the authorities in our territory? In a changing world, many of our neighbours legalize the festive use of cannabis. Will this discussion soon be on the agenda in Belgium? I will listen to your answer with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u35	Dear colleague, with regard to your first question, I invite you to put it in writing. With regard to your second question, you rightly point out that the world is changing and, in the face of that, we have a law dating back to 1921. So she's over 101 years old. In any case, the Senate is currently conducting expert hearings with a view to preparing an information report on the general evaluation of the Drugs Act. If you wish to open this debate in committee, it may be interesting. On the basis of the current law, the situation is as follows: the use of cannabis is prohibited by law but, as a matter of principle, it is the subject of a low priority within the framework of prosecution policy, except where the use or possession of drugs causes nuisances in public space. To this end, we have, as you know, created a policy of immediate reaction with immediate transactions for drug-related problems. It is a means of combating nuisances, but it is also a means of directing problematic users to services for the care and treatment of drug addiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u36	Madam President, I take note of the suggestions and additional information provided to me by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u37	Minister, the problem of the overpopulation of the prison in the Begijnenstraat in Antwerp is not new. It's been addressed by the guards for years. I have also questioned you on many occasions in this House. The mayor of Antwerp has now imposed a maximum capacity by mayor's order. At the moment there are about 750 prisoners in the prison of Antwerp. As of 1 May 2022, according to that mayor's order, only 680 prisoners may reside there. From July 2022, it may only be 660. The mayor has taken this decision understandably for security reasons. Apart from that, we must also bear in mind that capacity is actually limited to 439 places available. Even with the mayor's order, therefore, normal capacity remains largely exceeded. The Antwerp mayor's initiative is not unique. Other mayors have also made certain announcements in the past. I am thinking, for example, of the Mayor of Bergen in November 2021. He stated that the prison population in his city should fall from 394 to 301 by 15 November. Charles Piqué also issued an order at the same time to limit the prison population in Saint Gillis from 910 to 850. Minister, I have a number of questions on this matter. What is your position on this mayor's order? Did you consult with the mayor of Antwerp prior to this order? In anticipation of new, additional places, which will not be available on 1 May and 1 July, we already know, is the crucial question to which other prisons the superintendents will be transferred? There is, of course, a risk that other prisons will become overcrowded. Where will these prisoners be transferred? As I have already said, the Antwerp mayor's initiative is not new. Other announcements have already been made. What initiatives did you take to keep the whole system under control? In June, the deadline for you to announce that any sentence that has been pronounced must also be implemented effectively. How will you bring that into line with the maximum capacity currently imposed on mayor's orders? How will you keep your promise that every sentence imposed will also be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u38	Madam President, I agree with Mrs Dillen's question, but it might be interesting to add some history to that. You are aware of this, Minister, of course, because it is not a new problem, certainly not the overpopulation. However, the mayor of Antwerp wrote to you on 26 November 2021, when he expressed his deep concern about the situation in the Antwerp prison. He did so again in his letter of 9 December 2021. On 7 December 2021, you replied to that first letter and recognised the problem. You also said that various measures, such as the distribution of prisoners across different prisons, would ensure that the number of prisoners would fall to 680 in the short term. As you know, Mrs Dillen just said that capacity is actually 439 places. The Supervisory Board has also been involved in the discussion. On 29 November 2021, the Commission sent a letter to both the Mayor and the Provincial Governor. Consultations were then held with the relevant actors. On 26 January 2022 another letter was sent confirming that a number of prisoners had indeed been transferred, which was already good, but that there was a large influx, which meant that there were again 724 prisoners in the Begijnenstraat. On 8 February 2022, the mayor of Antwerp informed the FPS Justice of his intention to take any administrative measures. On 14 February 2022 and 16 February 2022, an answer was received that 284 additional beds would be placed in other Flemish prisons as a temporary humanitarian measure and that certain penalties would not be implemented until 1 May 2022 in order to delay the influx. Unfortunately, all this is not enough. The situation in Antwerp did not stabilise, resulting in the mayor's decision and the administrative measure of 1 March 2022. The mayor says that as of 1 May 2022, only 680 more prisoners may be imprisoned. From 1 July 2022 this number would be 660 prisoners, which is still 50% too much. However, this is a step-by-step way of normalising the situation. Moreover, the Supervisory Board also raised the number of 660 in its letter. Minister, I have a few questions about this. What's the status today? How many prisoners are currently in the Antwerp prisons? Are there any ground sleepers in there? In the meantime, have you drawn up a roadmap to move towards 660 prisoners in the next four months? If so, how will you realize that? Is further consultation with the relevant actors planned to normalise the situation as soon as possible? You will also know that yesterday they stopped again in the prison of Antwerp. Finally, how do you see the overpopulation evolve if the suspension of the sentence as a result of the pandemic is no longer in force from 1 May 2022? Do you still insist on your intention to implement the short sentences as from 1 June 2020? That will certainly have an impact. What is your plan to get that all right and in the meantime also to take care of that rigorous punishment you've always talked about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u39	Colleagues, let me give you some figures first. There are currently 670 men and 49 women in the Antwerp prison. Today, on 9 March, there are 80 ground sleepers in the prison of Antwerp. The mayor has made his intention of taking a decision known in writing to the administration. The administration replied in writing stating all the initiatives already taken to mitigate the occupation of the Antwerp prison. With regard to the specific situation of Antwerp, a follow-up meeting with the provincial governor on the problem of overpopulation is scheduled for next week. To discuss the problem of overpopulation at national level, we will hold a round table with the various partners. Indeed, the overpopulation affects not only the prison of Antwerp but also the other prisons in Flanders. Initiatives were taken to increase the spread of overcrowding by placing 281 beds across all prisons. The overpopulation is therefore not concentrated in one establishment, but prisoners are spread across many establishments, so that the burden is spread. This process will continue for as long as necessary. There was also investment in strengthening psychosocial services, so that parole could be used in the early stages. In this way, we want to prevent more and more prisoners from being released only at the end of their sentence. In order to respond to the problem of overpopulation, several slopes are currently being examined to find a solution in the short term. There is investment in more and above all better capacity through the implementation of the master plans. At the same time, the debate on prison time is being conducted as an ultimatum remedium and the initiatives that can be taken to influence entry and exit. In other countries, for example in the Netherlands, there are experiences on which we can inspire ourselves to investigate what is possible in relation to the inflow and outflow. Resolving the overpopulation in the short term remains a difficult issue within the limits of the rule of law. Both creating additional places and looking for legal solutions takes time. Several slopes have already been investigated to control the overpopulation. These are currently being worked out. As I mentioned earlier, internal processes are also being improved to speed up the flow and to improve cooperation with the main partners. Pending this, some internal optimisations are being carried out. The search for suitable locations for detention homes also continues. As far as the latter is concerned, I would nevertheless like to stress that this is additional capacity in the context of the entry into force of the powers of the criminal court in respect of sentenced persons with imprisonment of up to three years. Through the detention homes, we will avoid adding this population to the pre-existing population in the prisons. I remain convinced that part of the solution for the overpopulation lies in the implementation of the short sentences. By implementing the short sentences, the judge will also know what this will mean in practice when he pronounces the sentence. In addition, a criminal court shall be competent for the award of the penalties. The criminal execution judge will be able to make a better risk assessment by following up the file and to detect possible problems early. Short play on the ball will have a positive impact on the relapse rates and thus inevitably also have an effect on the inflow. In addition, I am still in favour of implementing these short sentences in a different way than the current classic way. I have explained my view on the importance of small-scale detention to you several times. My administration is working very hard to build the detention homes. However, as you know, this is not an easy task. Of course, I am neither blind nor deaf to the current problems on the ground. Here, too, a number of measures have been developed to reduce inflow, facilitate flow and strengthen outflow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u40	Minister, I have said it several times in the past, this is a problem that has been going on for a long time, for 20 to 30 years. I would like to hear you say that this takes time and that it is a difficult problem within the limits of justice. However, this is a cumulative problem. For the record, that's not your responsibility, I'm honest with you. In fact, however, we continue to rattle on the spot. If we were to analyse all the different parliamentary interventions over the last decades, we would find that this is always coming back. The problem is not really being solved in a positive way. Minister, you just spoke of 670 men and 49 women in Antwerp and 80 ground sleepers. That is unworthy of a rule of law. I think we agree on that. I assume that you have already been there, those cells are small, and if you have to lie there with eight instead of four or four instead of two, then that is truly unworthy of humanity. In addition, the beautiful weather is approaching and many ventilation facilities are not in those cells. We already know that once summer is over, this will give rise to very difficult conditions, first and foremost for the guards and, of course, for the prisoners. So I would really like to urge that initiatives be taken to deal with the problem of ground sleep so that this can be resolved. You are again pleading for the execution of the short sentences. You referred to your view on small-scale detention. Mr President, I think I have to say that you continue to be very keen on the spot. I do not know whether a lot of initiatives are getting concrete. We note that when announcements are made, they are almost immediately fired at the site. Each municipality has its own reasons for doing so. Last week it was about a hotel in Meise, whose name now escapes me. However, you know what I am talking about. Also there the municipality resisted again. You must be aware that your vision of small-scale detention will not be the solution for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, let me note that it is much of the same and that it remains very vague. I do not want to avoid the fact that this is a difficult problem. First of all, I agree with you that a rigorous sentence will lead to less recidivism. I agree with you on this point, and we have been throwing it up for years. You say about this rigorous execution that you will consider how to work in and out of the inflow and how they can be affected. I'm already worried. If that means that a punishment will not be carried out, then you are standing there with your so-called firm sentences. We have known and still know this problem today. I am therefore concerned about this. You also said that the charges would be spread. In fact, prisoners have already been transferred to other prisons. Mr. Secretary, I don't have the figures on hand, but I can get them to you. After all, I've requested them from you. However, the overpopulation, which exists in all prisons, is largely absorbed by Antwerp. So there's still a lot of space to spread out. There is probably still too little spread. You are in favour of alternative execution of sanctions. In some cases this will certainly be useful, but you also know that part of the problem will then be shifted to the regions, which are responsible for the execution of the sentence and have also taken responsibility. Flanders has already bought and installed a lot of extra ankle bracelets to take care of this. Of course, it cannot continue to happen that way. Each region must take its part in this. This can't just be passed on. Working together is one thing, passing off is another. You want to deal with the short sentences from June 1st through detention homes. The Genens cabinet had already calculated how many places they needed. That's a couple hundred of them. That won't be solved with that one detention house or perhaps with the second one you might have opened this summer. It won't work that way, let's be honest about that. You'll have to work very quickly. Of course, it's not easy for you either. After all, all the spaces and locations available today could be needed for other reception in the coming months. I wish you every success in this. The current overpopulation is no longer acceptable, and we are still running in a circle. It is time for more decisive solutions than these. You say everything takes a long time, for example renting a prison abroad. You'll need a year to do that. However, we say that for more than a year, the solution might have been there already.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u42	Madam President, Minister, distressing stories in the Flemish childcare sector are unfortunately published almost daily in the press these days. Last week, however, a disturbing story appeared in the Flemish childcare sector. An Antwerp childcare woman who was sentenced by the court of appeal last year for serious abuse of small children and neglect was apparently able to continue to run her nursery without any problems. It is particularly worrying that the parents who entrusted their child to child care were not aware of this. It was only two weeks ago, on 20 February, and only after new facts had been reported, that Child and Family informed the parents concerned that the nursery would be closed for two months as a precaution in order to prevent the safety and health of the children from being compromised. In that letter, apparently, several reasons were cited. The main reason is without doubt the conviction of the owner of child abuse and neglect, as early as January 2021. The facts themselves date from 2017 and 2018. These are really worrying facts. For the sake of clarity, childcare is not your competence, but the exclusive competence of the Communities. This dossier raises several questions. It concerns serious facts from 2017 and 2018, for which the child care in question was convicted at first instance, and subsequently, in 2021, also in degree of appeal. It was only a year later, following new complaints, that childcare was closed down. Mr Minister, do there exist directives in which the court concerned should automatically inform the child and the family about the complaints and the criminal record in progress when reporting such serious facts? Is Child and Family automatically informed by the public prosecutor after a conviction of a child care initiative at first instance is pronounced? Is there a standard procedure for this? If it does not exist, are you prepared to take initiatives in this sense? According to information, it appears that the responsible child-care provider was personally convicted, but that the company under which she performed her activities remained out of the question. Of course, that is not an excuse for the parents involved, who, strictly legally speaking, entrust their child to a company that has not committed any criminal offences in itself. This structure also does not inform parents of the offences. As a result, the parents cannot hold a bourgeois party. Minister, what is the standard procedure in that? Is the public prosecutor automatically investigating whether a legal person responsible for the organisation of childcare is behind the child care provider concerned? If not, are you prepared to take initiatives to prevent the parents concerned from being informed of criminal offences and ongoing criminal proceedings for years? It is very important to stress that these are particularly vulnerable people, the smallest of our societies. They deserve the highest level of protection, including for the sake of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u43	Mrs Dillen, there are directives, in particular COL. 8/2014, on the communication of criminal prosecution or conviction of officials, of persons with a public interest mission or who exercise a function involving an authority relationship with minors or vulnerable persons. This COL determines when to inform certain entities, such as Child and Family, that a person is under criminal investigation or that the person concerned has been convicted in criminal matters. The circular was revised in January 2020, extending its scope to include the new category 3.8. It concerns those persons whose file demonstrates that they perform functions in the health, welfare, cultural, youth, media and sport sectors, in so far as those functions usually imply an authority relationship with minors or vulnerable persons and will be exercised within the framework of a structure with legal personality. The category is very broad, because volunteers of youth movements and so on are also covered, without any disciplinary action for them. Moreover, it was added to the review in January 2020 that, when it appears from a reception parent's file that he or she usually lives together with a adult who is the subject of a criminal investigation, prosecution or conviction, he or she is treated as the person falling under category 3.8. There is no automatic notification in an ongoing investigation or after a conviction at first instance against which an appeal was brought. That is understandable with the following reasoning. The decision to communicate information must be made at that stage with caution and thought. The proper conduct of the investigation, the respect of privacy and the presumption of innocence must be guaranteed at all times. It cannot be the intention to provide a stigma for life for persons in an ongoing investigation or after criminal proceedings, followed by acquittal. At the same time, in the case of effective convictions and ongoing investigations where the need arises, we must ensure that the authorities are informed of ongoing investigations or convictions. This is a difficult balance and the letter guarantees the fragile balance to be found between protecting victims and ensuring the presumption of innocence in a potential offender. Therefore, following a review in January 2020, the circular has provided sufficient safeguards, which can be reported by the competent public prosecutors. A distinction is made between convictions and ongoing investigations. Judgments which fall under category 3.8, such as in the present case a conviction for abuse of a minor or a vulnerable victim and which are final, shall be notified to the authority under whose jurisdiction the convicted person falls. The decision whether or not to notify the conviction shall be taken after a well-thought-out consultation with the relevant parquet-general's reference office. It takes cumulative account of the danger to public security and the existing link between the offence and the function exercised. The decision to inform at the preliminary investigation stage, without any conviction, that an investigation or prosecution is ongoing, shall also be taken after consultation with the parquet general's reference office. It also takes account of the adoption of the communication. In reply to your second question, there are no specific directives on whether or not to prosecute a legal person in child care initiatives. This is governed by the general rules laid down in Article 5 of the Criminal Code. Specific guidelines are difficult to give here. The error must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Persons lodging a complaint may register as an injured person in accordance with Article 5a of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, in addition to the right to be assisted or represented by a lawyer and any document he considers useful to add to the file, the injured person shall be informed of the dismissal and the reason therefor, the initiation of a judicial investigation and the determination of a legal day before the investigating or judgment court. The injured person shall also have the right to request access to the file and to obtain a copy thereof. As a result of recent amendments to Article 792 of the Civil Code, the victim who has lodged a civil party shall, within five days of the decision being delivered, receive notification of that decision by means of an unsigned copy of the decision. It shall be addressed to each party and, where appropriate, to the lawyer. Moreover, this amendment has been applicable since 1 March 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that it is a difficult balance between the rights of the defence, privacy and not wrongly nailing it down, but these are very vulnerable children, together with the elderly, the most vulnerable in our society. The facts in this particular case date from 2017 and 2018 and only in January 2021 there was a judgment in degree of appeal which then came into force as res judicata. Then it took another year for Child and Family to perform. I wonder if in that year, between January 2021 and February 2022, Child and Family were informed by the public prosecutor of the conviction. That is not your responsibility, but it is nevertheless appalling that child care could continue to function for more than a year after that very severe conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u45	Minister, following the 101-year-old drug law, Mrs Beels, the Antwerp ships of Vooruit, responsible for education and youth, made a very remarkable plea last week, which also received a lot of media attention, to overturn and adapt the drug law to what she calls the current circumstances. She made a plea for the legalization of the use of drugs, including hard drugs such as cocaine. According to the Vooruitships, "it would be very wise to remove the possession and use of drugs from criminal law. Users should not be punished, even with a fine." She goes even further: "Finally, as a politician, you must also regulate and control the production and distribution of drugs." According to her, the government will even have to sell drugs in the long term, "especially if we really want to give a blow to the drug gangs and the illegal trade." Minister, that is a very remarkable position of a coalition partner of the mayor of Antwerp, in the context of what he calls the war on drugs in his city. It is a plea of a ship from an important city in Flanders, of which the party is also part of the federal government. I can't imagine an important Antwerp politician sending that gratuitously into the world and that that didn't happen in consultation with her party. We had a detailed discussion earlier on about your lick-on-piece policy, which we support. Now, the argument of the Antwerp Vooruitships goes directly against your announced lick-on-piece policy, which also pays great attention to the possession of drugs. That is why I felt it was necessary to ask you a number of questions. What is your position on that remarkable plea of a ship from an important city in Flanders, the party of which is part of the federal government? Do you think that's consistent with your announced lick-on-piece policy? Has there been any consultation on this issue? Will initiatives be taken to examine the plea put forward by the Vooruitpolitica?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u46	I have read the argument of the Antwerp ships well. Opinions are free in our country. As long as I cannot receive a shared position from the Antwerp coalition instead of a divided position, it is difficult for me to comment on this. The law is what she is. The federal policy in this area is well known. My policy in this area is also well known. We have just debated the OMS system that has been applicable throughout the country since 1 January and has been applicable in Antwerp since 2013. Of course, that will continue to be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u47	Thank you for your clear answer. It's right, opinions are free. However, we cannot ignore the fact that it is not a gratuitous idea when important politicians express a certain opinion. There's more to it than that. You should not infer from that that important politicians should not have a personal opinion. I am pleased to learn from your answer that you will continue to implement your firm lick-on-piece policy, including as regards the use of drugs and hard drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u48	Madam President, Minister, this is a somewhat specific question and at the heart of the news I will address to you. The beginning of the Russian offensive in Ukraine will undoubtedly mark our time. This aggression already marks many of our fellow citizens. Indeed, how can we remain neutral when a people defends itself not in a foreign territory but at the threshold of their own home and struggles not for resources, not for geopolitical gains but for its survival as an independent and sovereign nation-state? "A country that defends itself must respect all. This country does not perish," said one of our greatest kings. For example, social media and the press have signalled the will of the Belgians, some of them in any case, to go and rescue the attacked Ukraine, including the weapons in hand. They would be about seventeen and some of them would already be present on Ukrainian soil. In doing so, they are merely responding to a call from President Zelensky, who had urged or desired Europeans to join the ranks of Ukrainian defence. Moreover, an international legion of volunteers would have been created to welcome all foreign volunteers determined to defend Ukraine's independence. Although their motive is noble and their gesture honours the patriotism and the freedom of peoples to self-determination, these people remain Belgian and Belgium owes them as much protection as they themselves must, in their actions, avoid harming the interests of our State. So, Mr Minister, do we know precisely the number and identity of Belgians or Belgian residents who have gone as volunteers in Ukraine? Do these volunteers fall under the Belgian law on mercenaries, which punishes this activity of the prison? Volunteers do not return a priori to cases of extremism and terrorism. What services are responsible for monitoring and treating such persons in case? Is there any contact between the Belgian authorities and the Ukrainian authorities through ministries, intelligence services and embassies to ascertain the precise situation on the ground, although, admittedly, this is a challenge in time of war? Then, although Ukraine has conquered the hearts and minds of the Belgians, the figure of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin still enjoys some popularity and could inspire some of the fighters wrong orientations. Affidae of a much more authoritarian political spectrum could thus join Ukraine to fight under a uniform or possibly under the aggressor's contract. In view of the measures taken by Belgium within the framework of the European Union and NATO, Belgian citizens serving Russia and its puppet states fall under Article 118bis of the Criminal Code, which punishes those who knowingly serve the policy and purposes of the enemy or who engage in propaganda against resistance to the enemy. Thank you for your answers and I listen very carefully to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u49	Dear colleague, our intelligence and security services closely monitor the impact in Belgium of developments in Ukraine. One of its aspects is the potential flow of departures from Belgium to join one of the warring parties. Although joining a regular foreign army is not punishable as such, the State Security, in collaboration with its national partners, is proactively following this development in order to manage returns appropriately through follow-up by LTF's local task forces. Existing platforms and partners within the TER strategy (Terrorism, Extremism and Radicalism) are being used optimally for this purpose. President Zelensky announced that all foreigners wishing to join the resistance to Russian occupiers and to protect global security are invited by the Ukrainian authorities to join the defence forces. The Public Prosecutor's Office has examined this issue and has concluded that, in the current state of affairs and in the light of the regulations in force, the departure of these volunteers to join the Ukrainian army does not in itself constitute an offence, not even under the Belgian law on mercenaries. It is true that these volunteers cannot a priori be assimilated to cases of extremism or terrorism. However, monitoring of potential departures will be carried out within the framework of the TER strategy. Existing consultation platforms will be used to ensure that, in the event of indications of extremism or terrorism, the Belgian partners will take the necessary measures within the planned structure. It seems premature at this stage to discuss the possible applicability of article 118 bis of the Criminal Code. Nevertheless, the Belgian and Ukrainian authorities and services maintain contacts at different levels. In the context of the situation in Ukraine, the State Security Service is in contact with various international partners, including the Ukrainian Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u50	I thank the minister for his very precise answers that I will analyze with those who are concerned (since this question is a direct relay from the ground) about the legal framework in which they operate if they join the fighting forces and when they return.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u51	Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u52	Madam President, it is true that the business restaurant of the Justice Palace in Brussels has been closed since mid-September 2021 due to problems with the purchase of foodstuffs. In 2019 it was decided that purchases for corporate restaurants would be included in SAP from 2020. Previously, there was a separate accounting system, controlled by the Court of Auditors, and purchases by the administrator were placed directly with the suppliers. In 2020, it was noted by the Treasury Inspectorate that these purchases should be made through a European public contract. In view of the complexity of that task, however, authorisation was granted to operate through a simplified procedure. That authorisation expired on 31 August 2021. By that time, the requested public contract was not yet in order and no purchases could be made. The restaurant had to stop its services for the time being. I note that the Finance Inspectorate has warned about this well in advance. I note that the FOD's purchasing service did not appear to have been or have been able to comply with this in good time. In order to allow the restaurant to be reopened, the Treasury Inspectorate has agreed that the Purchase Coordination Service should re-establish low value contracts pending the completion of the European procurement procedure. Those tenders are currently under way. The reopening of the restaurant depends on the outcome of that tender. I come to your second question. Purchases are made by the restaurant manager through the coordination of purchases service. At the request of the Treasury Inspectorate, the Purchase Coordination Service has placed a public contract for the supply of food for the restaurant of the Justice Palace. It was decided to use a framework agreement, divided into ten lots, through the open procedure. The publication of that agreement and the tender bulletin in the Official Journal of the European Union took place in June 2021. The examination of the tenders identified several deficiencies in the tenders received. As a result, most of the lots of the framework agreement could not be awarded. There are currently no alternatives to your third question. There is no obligation to provide a business restaurant, so compensation is not at issue. However, this closure is a pity for many, not only for those who visited the restaurant, but also for those who committed themselves to it. In answer to your fourth question, the most important thing for me is that the restaurant can quickly reopen. With regard to the FOD, I expect the chairman of the purchasing service, who is directly dependent on him, to do all that is necessary for this. I am aware that it is not obvious to issue a public contract for such purchases, but at the same time that is not insurmountable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a pity that things have worked out as you have outlined. I note that the restaurant is not permanently closed, but that the necessary steps are being taken to start up. For the people who work in the Justice Palace, it is easy to have an on-site restaurant in the house.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u54	Minister, the war in Ukraine is creating a great wave of solidarity in our country, and that is a good thing. There's a need for that, too. Unfortunately, the war is also a unique opportunity for people with bad intentions. We need to anticipate that very quickly. The director of Payoke in Het Nieuwsblad said that mothers who have to care for their child are a very vulnerable group in extremely vulnerable circumstances. It will not be long before many of them find themselves in a very precarious financial situation, where they all need help. Then those are dreamed victims for criminals like mob gangs, loverboys or pimps. No one doubts that people are ready to abuse these refugees in the most disgusting way. Mr Minister, there are many other abuses that are conceivable, and I have the following questions. Firstly, there are many actions currently under way, but because of the urgency coordination can be improved. Because of the circumstances, there is a lot of improvisation. Will you take the initiative to establish, with the necessary resources, a cooperation between the aid organisations in the very short term, which will then try to find the right channels to obtain useful information on labour rights and various forms of exploitation from the right people? I am thinking in particular of Fairwork Belgium, specialized centers, Pax Christi, Child Focus and other key players and websites, social media and WhatsApp. I think that cooperation under the leadership of the centres would be a very good idea. That information must, of course, also reach the Ukrainian community. The best thing of all would be for this information to be shared through the Klein Kasteelje for whom an asylum application is submitted and for the others via Jules Bordet or the future other centre, or in cities and municipalities at the time of registration. Secondly, the many bona fide volunteers are also a very good channel for getting the right information on sensitisation for exploitation and trafficking in human beings to the right people, so that they are aware, for example, of the existence of the specialised centres for trafficking in human beings. Those who take care of Ukrainians at home, for example, should also be systematically informed. Will you take care of that? Thirdly, the same applies to reception structures in cities and municipalities. Will you also inform them systematically? Fourthly, we read that some local police departments do a screening of who takes care of the shelter. That's fine, but that should be done in a systematic way. Will you, for example, instruct the public prosecutor to carry out that screening? Do you see any other possibilities? Fifth, there is also the matching that will happen in Jules Bordet. I understand that matching has yet to start. In the future, this may also be possible elsewhere. What role will the Justice Department play in this matching? Will there be a screening? Who's gonna do it? If not, will you take care of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u55	What Payoke's director in The Newspaper cites is correct. The large influx of refugees in our country is an opportunity for traffickers to abuse these victims in different ways. Since the beginning of military aggression against Ukraine, more than 1.8 million people have crossed the external borders of the European Union to seek refuge and security. Most of them are women and children. This extraordinary situation is an unprecedented challenge for the neighbouring countries, but also for our country. I share your concern that organised criminal groups or people with malicious will take advantage of this and exploit the vulnerabilities of those fleeing the war. These are potential victims of sexual, but also economic exploitation. It is wise not only to focus on ex post repression, if the facts have taken place, but also to focus on a preventive approach, to raise awareness of the fleeing Ukrainians who can all be a potential victim of criminal organisations. A task force is currently being set up with the key players to set up a communication in the very short term to reach as many refugees as possible. The most important way of communicating will be through social media, but also the created web page info-ukraine.be on which we will place all the information. This task force will include experts from the administration, who, together with the three Payoke, PAG-ASA and Sürya centres and our expert on the federal prosecutor Mrs Ann Lukowiak, will determine the path to be followed in the very short term. The responsible migration services will also be asked to share their expertise. Given the urgent situation on the ground, we have asked the centres to play a tractor role in supporting my administration. At the moment, the centres are asking the families and refugees already present to see how best to reach the people in order to sensitise them. It will be short and clear information. We try in various ways to reach as many people as possible. For example, the Voogdij Service has called on the guardians to be vigilant for the abuse of unaccompanied minors. There too, there are risks. With regard to your fourth question, it would be helpful if we could give national directives to the local police areas to act uniformly and correctly. This is followed not only nationally, but also with the Benelux working group and at European level. Today, an emergency meeting was convened by the EU Anti-Trafficking Coordinator of the European Commission to examine, together with Europol, Frontex and the European Union Agency for Asylum, the situation of the flow of refugees in relation to human trafficking. Our federal court is following this very closely in the Eurojust working group. They will also sensitize the reference magistrates with possible clues. Some questions concern the competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. It is clear that we are organising a security screening. We shouldn't invent hot water in that area. It is the police and intelligence services that play an important role here, in particular the federal police, the security of the state and the DVD. Given the number of refugees we expect and the fact that a new registration centre has been put into operation, this is a genuine logistical operation, but we are determined and we are committed to achieving that screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for this perfect answer. I am very grateful for that. If I could have written it myself, it would have sounded like this. I would like to make another suggestion, which I had not thought of at the time of submitting the question. It is good that you are committed in the very short term, but it will still take a few days before this is about to happen and before the task force comes up with something. I know that there are also brochures for victims of human trafficking, which have been drawn up in more than 20 languages, I do not know if it is Ukrainian, but it would be good to check whether these brochures are systematically given in the Klein Kasteelje, Jules Bordet and perhaps also in the registration in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-09-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic717x.u57	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55025590C, 55025578C, 55025683C and 55025876C by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Boukili's 55025501C and 55025716C are also converted into written questions and also Question No 55025716C. Mr Loones converted 55025482C into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55025623, by Mrs Taquin, Question No 5, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), to the Council (Doc. Question No 550682 by Mrs Matz Mrs Depraetere's 550752C has lapsed, as we have not heard from the questioners.
