ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u1	Madam Minister, for my first question, we are going back in time to the very detailed and nuanced report of the Committee on Pension Reform 2020-2040, which, according to Deputy Prime Minister Vandenbroucke, one of the authors of the report, compared with the Netherlands and France, was somewhat amateurish. That report contained a whole series of proposals, but you have not taken on board them in your announced plans. Will you still accept proposals from that committee, Madam Secretary? If so, which one and can you explain why or why not? In the plenary session of 2 June, a PS colleague asked you a question about the state of play. In the committee, you always answer with a bit of a flirt, but surprisingly enough you took a hint of the veil. You spoke of four concrete measures that will bring greater social justice, support work and eliminate inequalities between men and women. In concrete terms, these included the pension bonus, the part-time pension and the minimum pension and measures to increase the value of work aimed at reducing the pension gap between men and women. That all sounds very nice. In any case, you have been so helpful in transferring the hot issue of the affordability and financial sustainability of pensions to a later date and to the social partners. As part of the four measures announced for the Vivaldi Government, is it sufficient to have worked effectively for 10 years, to have access to the minimum pension and to retain the existing treated periods? Therefore, measures for the financial sustainability of our pension system will be forwarded to you. Can you tell us in advance what the budgetary estimate is of the four measures mentioned, which aim to bring about greater social justice, to support employment and to eliminate inequalities between men and women? I would like to refer to the statement by your chairman, Mr Magnette, that your plans have been fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u2	My question dates back a while ago. We read in the press that you would bring out concrete plans for the summer recess. The agenda, timetable and working methods would have been agreed. Four measures would be crucial: the pension bonus, the part-time pension, the effective employment rate and the elimination of gender inequalities. I would like to hear from you what gender inequalities are involved. In parallel, a second part of the plan would be launched, for which the opinion of the social partners is requested. So I guess that shouldn't be expected before the summer either. Is it true that you will propose the global pension reform to the government? What's the timetable? What are the main measures in both parts of the reform? Are we also considering more concrete measures to ensure the financial sustainability of our pension system? You say it doesn't involve extra costs, but the money has to come from somewhere. How can you achieve greater convergence between different pension systems for civil servants, employees and the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u3	Madam Secretary, it seems to be a tradition for us to ask you questions about pension reform as soon as you come to committee. In De Standaard of 21 June 2022 we read that the government is giving itself two weeks to achieve results on the pension bonus, part-time pension, access to the minimum pension and some measures related to gender equality. One of the key elements of your pension reform is the career condition for early retirement. I was eagerly looking forward to it, and you have reported on this in the press in detail for the last year and a half. You wanted to change that condition to 42 years. According to De Standaard, you are now leaving that slope, which had to offer a solution for workers with a long career and even for the heavy professions. At the beginning of the legislature, you stated in De Standaard of 10 November 2020 that the regulation for the heavy professions would come to the negotiating table sooner or later, although that is not in the government agreement. My definition of early is quite different from what is happening in practice. Is the slope to allow early retirement after a career of 42 years, completely abandoned? When will the regulation on the heavy professions come back to the negotiating table? What about career conditions for access to the minimum pension? Will it be ten, fifteen or twenty years of employment? How many people will therefore no longer have access to the minimum pension? What happens to the part-time pension when the slope of a 42-year career goes into the fridge, as can be seen in the newspaper article? Part-time pension would also be possible as soon as one could retire early. In your plan, this is at the earliest at the age of 60 years after a career of 42 years. Does this also apply to part-time pensions? In addition to the requirement of a 42-year career, will other conditions be linked to the part-time pension? Will part-time workers also have access to part-time pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u4	Madam President, Minister, we are waiting for pension reform. Recently, the press echoed the drafting of a new methodological note on the subject. This note consists of two parts. One concerns the following points, on which the Government has agreed to reach a consensus, namely the return of the pension bonus, the actual working time to qualify for the pension, the part-time pension and the revalorisation of women's pensions. The second part brings together a series of questions sent to the social partners. They concern the financial and social sustainability of the pension system, the generalisation and strengthening of supplementary pensions, and the modernisation of the family dimension. Minister, the reintroduction of the pension bonus will not be free for the state. Can you give us an estimate of its net budgetary cost over the years? More generally, how will the financial sustainability of the first part of your score be assessed? The social partners must submit an interim report by 6 July, five weeks after the government has requested it. Does this time limit seem tenable to you? Finally, can the agreement on pension reform be reached by 21 July 2022 as envisaged? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u5	Madam Secretary, we have been waiting for the proposals for pension reform for some time. Through the media, we recently learned that in this context, you have put forward four measures that would be treated as a priority, namely the pension bonus, the part-time pension, the conditions for access to the minimum pension and measures for gender equality within pensions. The talks about this are ongoing in the government. As you know, we made a concrete proposal ourselves with the pension plan that we presented in January. I read that you and Minister Clarinval have asked the social partners to draw up a report on three pension-related issues: the important financial and social sustainability of our pension system, the generalisation and strengthening of supplementary pensions, which we also support, and finally the modernisation of the family dimension. You would request a first interim report from the social partners before 6 July. Can you give me an update on the first four concrete measures? What specific proposals are on the table? How is this further rolled out? Secondly, what timetable do you envisage for the development of these four measures? What exactly do you expect on July 6th? After all, it is very short a day after you asked the social partners the question. What are they supposed to have done? Is it a method or should it be something more substantive? I assume that the substantive approach will not be completed until the end of this year. What do you expect after the dates of July 6th and the end of this year? What role do you see for the Pension Commission? In your previous note with the timetable that you released in December, there was a role for the National Pension Commission. Is that also the case here?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u6	Madam Minister, what are your intentions with regard to the benchmarks set out in the government agreement and recently recalled between the majority partners? Can you remind us of the specific points that are the subject of the discussions? Can you also redefine the agenda you are hoping to hold at this stage of the discussions? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u7	Madam Minister, many of us have followed the press conference given by your colleagues last Friday, which was devoted to the employment deal. Finally, measures could be announced within this framework. We are still a little disappointed because no pension measures came out of this press conference, while there is a very clear link to be made between measures to support employment and pension measures. As my colleagues have said, it is finally an umpteenth state of affairs that has emerged since several inter-cabinets meetings have been devoted to reducing inequalities between men and women with regard to pensions, part-time pensions, pension bonuses and 'effective working conditions' in order to benefit from the minimum pension. In doing so, without trying to minimize these fundamental issues, we remain far from more ambitious projects that could be expected after your government agreement on access to pensions. Minister, can we hope for an approach to pension issues outside of an employment policy that would essentially aim to keep seniors at work as long as possible? When are you finally going to go beyond the stage of the state of the places, the observations and the promises? What is the status of your famous reform project, so many times announced and postponed? What about sustainable pension financing? When is a comprehensive approach to our three traditional pillars (legal pension, collective pension, individual pension)? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u8	Madam President, this pension reform project, which has been on the government table for some time, would be worth more than just a topical debate. It would deserve arbitration within the government and a great debate in Parliament. Minister, I am sure you have the will to come as soon as possible with an agreement within the government. I note your commitment to improving the lives of pensioners and reducing inequalities. Your proposal for a single career condition of 42 years old from the age of 60 would be an important step towards recognizing the tenability of trades for workers who started working at a very young age. I also note your willingness to reduce inequalities between men and women. It is known that, for a number of reasons, pensions are on average 33% lower for women. Of course, we agree with all these objectives. Minister, what is the status of the discussions on this subject? What points of attention would still merit some arbitration? What is the timetable for the implementation of this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, in consultation with the Prime Minister, we have decided to submit the pension reform to the Council of Ministers. Discussions have taken place in the IKW, the DAB and the nuclear cabinet. We have not yet reached a consensus on the final measures adopted under Part A. The Prime Minister's goal, and mine too, is to reach a consensus before the summer. In this strand, four measures are discussed: pension bonus, part-time pension, minimum pension and women's component. There is still no agreement on the content of these measures. The government will guarantee the balance of this agreement, Mr Bombled referred to it. Trust your Deputy Prime Minister. The content of these measures is being discussed among partners, in collaboration with the Federal Pension Service Knowledge Centre. I won't be able to tell you what's on the table, because it would make the negotiations that are taking place for the time being run out. So I'll be discreet and, if you find any information in the press, it's not from me. Part B is discussed with the social partners in an ad hoc committee at the level of the National Labour Council (NCT) and the Central Economic Council (CCE), initially. It is too early to say what will emerge from this work of the social partners. I can only tell you that a meeting is taking place today, following the request made by Mr.Clarinval, the Prime Minister and myself. Their contribution is requested in three specific dossiers: modernisation of the family dimension, generalisation of the supplementary pension and financial and social sustainability. These issues are extremely important for the development of the future pension system. Mr Bombled, it is true that a first report is requested by 6 July. It is very ambitious, but it also shows the importance of the discussion. The social partners will not provide a plan in a month, but this should allow them to take a first look at these issues which they already know very well as managers of social security. The current government is really asking the social partners to take a decision on these issues by the end of the year. Their opinion is fundamental to us. Mr Colebunders, I remain convinced that workers who started working early must be treated equally. That is also the belief of most other government partners. A unique career condition remains a question of social justice for me. It is also my conviction that heavy work should be avoided as much as possible. That's about more than the end-of-life discussion. It is about workable work throughout the entire career. The government is already working on this today. I referred in previous replies to decisions taken by the Minister for Work, Mr Dermagne. Mrs Rohonyi, for the employment deal, I would obviously refer you to Mr Dermagne. I will of course continue to keep you informed of the progress of the government's work, but without hindering the current negotiations. So I will remain in discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, we have not learned much from it. I sometimes wonder whether this Vivaldi government is aware of the urgency of an early pension reform in order to guarantee the sustainability of pensions in the future. I think you are aware of the challenge we face, because if we do not change the policy, the annual pension burden will be EUR 14 billion more by 2050 than it is today. That's a huge amount of money. You have already said that it is not so bad and that it will be all right. An efficacy level of 80 % is the solution to solve this problem. However, I do not see much or nothing of this on the ground. According to us and the experts, the current mini-work deal will offer little or no relief. According to you and your party chairman, Mr Magnette, this pension reform is budget-neutral and should not be panicked. I do not follow the view of this government in this respect, because I believe that this attitude is rather irresponsible, both for today's pensioners and for future pensioners. It's about people who have had bad luck in life and that much more. In this connection, you said in February that you attach great importance to the balance between the principle of insurance and solidarity. I have told you a number of times, Madam Minister, that your policy is focused solely on expenditure. You're not looking for income. This is becoming increasingly dramatic for the future. I therefore urge you and the Vivaldi Government once again to look for money to pay for it if you want to spend.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u11	Madam Secretary, you say you remain discreet, but I would like to share a concern with you. In social security, built up by the generations before us, there is the principle of building rights by making payments. The same applies to pensions. People have the right to a pension, but they must have contributed to it first. That general principle of social security must not be allowed to go on. In order to benefit from a branch of social security, although much has been said because it is also about sickness and invalidity benefits, one must first have contributed or the person to whom one is dependent. For me, that is a principle that must remain as a matter of principle. However, one can be inventive. I am thinking, for example, of buying in years of study. A different arrangement has been made for the military service. This is because only the year applies, but not the income. That is all right with me, because I think that as many people as possible should get a good pension to live the end of their lives in dignity. Nowadays, people can also enjoy their pension for a long time. In the past, people barely made it to retirement age. My grandfather, for example, has become 65 years old. So he didn't retire a few minutes ago. So that's the big difference from now. We have won for decades in a few generations, and that is a good thing. However, it has become more difficult to maintain a house only with the pension, for example. So I would really like to ask you not to touch on that general principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u12	Madam Secretary, allow me to be a little concerned. I'll take you to the beginning of September last year. Then the liberals went to the media for you with your pension reform plan. You responded immediately and it was already clear that something was not right. We asked you several times in committee the same questions as we did today. I'm sure you'll get it a few more times. In September last year, you also said it was before the end of the year. Then you talked about January, then it was March. Meanwhile, it's almost July and we still have nothing. You still haven't found a consensus. Madam Secretary, you say that it is your belief that it should be held for 42 years. That may be so, but you are not alone and it becomes increasingly clear to me that the liberals are doing their part in this government and are not making it easy for you. Everyone knows that the liberals do not want to get rid of the Michael administration's legacy in the area of pensions. This means that everyone has to work longer and no consensus is found. The fact that you hold on to those 42 years does not mean that the dilemma of the heavy professions has been overcome. Those 42 years apply to everyone, without distinction according to the nature of the job. Moreover, half of women do not even have such a long career. For them, therefore, there is nothing more to do than to work longer. You promised a social reform, but I don't know if you'll get it before the end of this legislature. After all, there is still no consensus and let us be honest, time is getting too short. You don't have two years. However, it is absolutely necessary to reverse the legacy of the Michael administration and the logic of working longer until any price. The reality is that for many working people working longer is simply untenable. As far as the periods are concerned, I have not heard anything at all on a large number of points. As you said, there was nothing concrete yet, for example, about treated periods, part-time periods and the pension bonus. I already know what my associates have to do. The questions that have been asked a few months ago should simply be retabled for the next time you come to visit us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Little clarification: I am a liberal and I do not feel that I am making life difficult for you, contrary to what my colleague from the PTB says. As you have said, pension reform will be the result of a broad consensus on its content, but also on the financial sustainability of this reform. I understand that it would be risky to say much more today, especially if there is not yet a global agreement. However, you have told us that the National Labour Council and the Central Economic Council are meeting today to discuss the second part. We hope that you will be able to present pension reform as soon as possible, because, as the adage says, everything comes to the point of waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, but we didn't hear much more from you than we heard from the newspapers and our cabinets. We certainly support those four first measures in Part A, but they are absolutely not enough. Part B, which comes at the end of the year and which deals with affordability, the second pillar and the family dimension, is in itself good, but will not be there until next year. Will there still be enough time to effectively implement the announced in-depth pension reform? That's what I'm worried about. A thorough pension reform is something we need to start now, because it takes time. I also find a lot of things not found in part A. Why can't Part A be expanded? I don't read about the pension reform for civil servants. I do not read anything about a better pension for everyone, so that everyone gets better and not just those to whom the minimum pension applies. There's no mention of a retirement scheme either. Let us hope that we can encourage as many people as possible to work longer, but there are, for example, people with a heavy occupation for whom working longer is not possible and for whomever appropriate regulation is needed. It is not about gender equality, which you are very keen on and which you have planned measures for. I myself put forward a proposal for the pension split, but I do not read any more about it today. Isn't that something we can possibly achieve in the short term? The Ombudsman has also received many complaints about transparency and information on mypension.be. I'll ask you another question about that later. These are all measures that we can work with in the short term. I therefore hope that we can go beyond these four measures and that Part B will also be very concrete and not be postponed for five years. We must now work to secure pensions from later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u15	Minister, thank you for your transparency when you told us that you were very careful about discretion and for the transparency of the method used. For following the complexity of this issue from the beginning, it is indeed better to avoid warming minds. This reform is so sensitive and crucial that, from the moment information comes out or is shared, we feel that perhaps it is at the expense of a reform that would be the subject of a compromise, a consensus. This leads to detrication or tensions that are probably useless. You recalled the essential elements. I am well aware of the desire to explain the context and the very principle of a pension: we contribute, we contribute and then we can reap the benefits of this contribution and of this contribution. A priori, this seems extremely logical. On the other hand, in fact, it is not necessarily a problem of willingness to contribute and contribute, but it is more broadly the real societal and economic context of the labour market and of the realities of employment between men and women which means that at the moment when a pension is to be granted serenely, because of accidents in life or occupational accidents, this is not always done decently. I therefore hope that this government will do what a government can do in a social state such as the one we advocate, that is to say, to repair accidents that are independent of each other. We encourage you to do this and we support you in this work that you are doing discreetly but, I am sure, with a lot of energy for many months now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u16	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although, unlike my colleagues in the majority, I must regret that you finally kicked in. First of all, you are referring me to the Minister of Employment, whereas, as my colleague Leroy has just pointed out, there is a very clear link between employment reforms and access to pensions, especially for workers of a certain age or very heavy careers. It is for this reason that successive pension reforms have, of course, reduced the number of pre-pensioners, but at the same time the number of long-term unemployed over 55 years has exploded as well as the number of long-term patients. It turns out that what we earn on one side, we lose on the other side of our social security. If career development is to continue, it must be done at least as part of a comprehensive strategy, including career development. For the rest, you also kicked in and said that you wanted to be discreet so as not to overturn the negotiations. I understand that perfectly, but you've been out in the press for a year now. This prompts your colleagues in the majority to present their own vision of things. Today, we know your vision of things, we know the vision of things of your majority partners and of party presidents in particular. Aside from this, we still do not know the government's vision of things as such. As you said, there is still no consensus today. I agree that your approach is difficult, but as a result, people who have worked their entire lives remain in the most complete blur while they have the right to apprehend their retirement with serenity. They still do not know if they will have 1,500 euros net or gross for a full career.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u17	I'm just allowing myself to react to that. As I have said many times before in Parliament, there is a guaranteed increase in pensions to EUR 1,500 net. The government decided in October 2020, not at the time of the government agreement, but at the time of the budget – you voted here in Parliament in December 2020. The increase could even be greater thanks to the 1.2 billion new money that the government has put in pensions, thanks to the indexations – four had been planned and now six – and thanks to the well-being envelopes that are guaranteed. The first has already been distributed and the second is guaranteed by the government. Whatever is apparent from the agreement of the social partners, money is guaranteed. Don't say that because I wouldn't want you to plant any more mistrust among pensioners, which would really be misinformation!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u18	Minister, it is not information that I relay myself, but it is citizens' concerns. You can also read it because apparently the information did not reach them. In any case, money is still not in their pocket while it is ultimately the subject that worries them. However, the lack of clarity remains with regard to other aspects of the reform: the number of years of work to gain access to it, the definition of arduous occupations or the number of people involved. Therefore, the most complete flaw remains on a crucial point, namely the way in which these pensions can be financed in a sustainable manner. To conclude positively, Minister, I can only encourage you in your efforts today. Indeed, you have made a promise to all our fellow citizens who must be able to live up to it. There is a question here of providing a dignified pension to all workers who have contributed their entire lives. So I can only encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. Consensus, that is the key word in your answer. You're looking for consensus. This word is also the key word in Belgian political life. It's finally a little bit of our DNA. Our French neighbours are beginning to discover this concept; they have no experience or competence in this field. On the other hand, I hold back your willingness not to overturn the negotiations. That is why, in this topical debate, statements differ depending on whether one is in the opposition where one is more radical or in the majority. But I see that within the Vivaldi, the words are quite measured, and sometimes a little hollow. Indeed, as the chairman of our committee has said, the subject is sensitive, complex and has its history. In conclusion, let me say that we will wait for the reflections and input of the social partners and the follow-up of the IKW, DAB, Kern to take over the Belgo-Belgian jargon that we regularly use. We hope, in any case, to see you soon enough in this committee with a file linked and approved by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. Of course, you remained discreet. Frankly, I think that is the best guarantee for the pension reform to succeed. It is important that the pension reform succeeds, precisely in order to provide security. I have said it here many times, more than half of the young people no longer believe they will have a pension. We need to restore confidence. I hear from the PVDA that we haven't done anything yet. I hear from Défi that nothing is guaranteed yet. I would like to say that the budget for the first phase is fixed. We will also carry out that phase. We are going to receive a minimum pension of 1,500 euros. We wanted to make it in 2024, but we will make it next year, in the summer of 2023. We invest more than 2 billion in better pensions. That budget is guaranteed, that route is fixed. It's approved here and it's just being executed. Anyway, my mom has an incomplete career. She's already noticed the difference. Also one of our board members, also a woman with an incomplete career, asked me two weeks when we were sitting on a terrace to tell the minister that she already feels the difference. She said it was the first time in all those years that she's retired, because she hadn't noticed much of it before. As far as reform is concerned, it is important for us that work is rewarded. Work must be rewarded. That is why we want a pension bonus if there is longer work. However, part-time work and care tasks should also be appreciated. I always hear here saying that old age is a burden, a cost. We are talking about affordability. I think it's a punishment for N-VA talking about affordability. The tax shift, that was an uncovered check for our social security. Here we have a choice. Either we pay it collectively, in solidarity and, of course, with the insurance principle, or we tell people to pull out your plan and solve it yourself when you are old. Madam Minister, I wish you every success in achieving a solution of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u21	Madam Minister, from what we have seen in the press over the past few months and weeks, we can conclude that your pension reform is becoming a pain, with two phases, three phases, apparently now part A and B, by 6 July 2022, by 21 July 2022, by the end of 2022 or only before the next parliamentary term. Those aren't very reassuring messages. You have repeatedly indicated that your reform would be budget-neutral. "It will be neutral," says Lalieux, blokletterderde L'Echo op 23 April 2022. Everyone knew better then, except you, who didn't want to admit it. Even now, under pressure from the coalition partners, you need to take back gas. The great reform had already turned into a few minor interventions, such as the pension bonus. This bonus, however, does not appear to be budget neutral according to the Planbureau's calculations, usually well informed when it comes to calculations. The reform can only succeed if you leave with a white sheet, align the three statutes and do the same with the method of calculating pensions. With regard to the equivalence of the three great statutes, however, you have already stated that it can be achieved at the earliest in the next legislature. That is, of course, the easiest thing to do, namely to extend the hot potato for itself. Unfortunately, this is what the current government is doing in all major cases, whether it is energy supply, military budget, labour market reform or, apparently, pensions. In this respect, the government is already on the same page.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u22	Madam Secretary, I would like to respond to Vooruit's intervention. We have not claimed that nothing has happened, we have certainly not done so. We have not yet discussed minimum pensions. That's another question that's about to be addressed. All I have done is repeat the words of the Minister himself, namely that there was no consensus and that it will continue. Those are her words, not mine. I just repeated them. There's nothing extra, I've just taken note of what's been declared.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u23	Madam Minister, I was given a rather Kafkaian example of how cooperation between the Flemish services on the one hand and the federal services on the other will make life easier for the government rather than for people with disabilities on the other. The application for a parking card was subject to an automatic authorisation between the Growing up Agency and the Social Security Office. Apparently, that arrangement was undone. Now parents must first receive a certificate from the Agency Growing up and then they must deliver it to the FPS Social Security Office themselves. Since it may take a long time before they receive that certificate - that is also a fact - they will be advised to apply for the parking card at the FPS Social Security Office. Here they have to recharge all medical information. Moreover, it is not yet certain that the Social Security Office will have the same judgment as the Growing up Agency, which must also make its say about it. Are you aware of this problem? If so, what will you do to help those concerned? Will you contact your Flemish colleague to resolve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u24	Mrs. Vanpeborgh, my cabinet was informed last month about that Kafkaian situation. We asked, of course, to investigate this immediately. The problems you mention are due to the fact that DG HAN does not have access to the new system that the Flemish Agency has been using since 1 February. That is why DG HAN is currently using the Agency's paper certificates. The aim is to switch to the control of the rights via HandiService. This application will be developed by my administration, reduce the administrative burden on citizens and reduce the treatment periods. It is true that the current procedure may be lengthy and cumbersome, both for the beneficiaries and for the services concerned, but I can assure you that there will be no further evaluation when the Growing up Agency has issued a certificate. The DG HAN always follows the opinion of that agency. Only when a certificate from the Agency reaches us will the DG HAN itself have to carry out a check, but again, the intention is to quickly switch over to the control of rights via HandiService. Every day, I am committed to administrative simplification and the fight against the non-take-up of rights. I will therefore continue to follow up this dossier closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are clearly picking up the same signals, and it certainly reassures me that you will take action. I am also pleased that DG HAN is following the opinion of the Growing Agency. I am less reassured when I find that the Growing up agency is taking a measure, without everything being aligned. I regret that, and I hope that the coordination you promise will be achieved very quickly. I will come back to that to see how far that is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u26	Minister, in 2022, citizens continue to die on the streets. Last year, the Collectif des morts de la rue recorded 76 deaths of homeless people in the Brussels-Capital Region, a record since 2005. We can interpret these figures in terms of strengthening the resources of the Collective, but it must be admitted that this growth is mainly due to the increase in the number of homeless people in Brussels. This is in any case confirmed by Bruss的help, the Brussels agency responsible for the development of assistance to homeless people. Minister, since you took office, you have focused on the reference address and the Housing First program. Can you take stock of other initiatives taken since you took office to reduce the number of street victims in practice? The government agreement and your various policy notes aim to update the 2014 cooperation agreement on homelessness and homelessness through a specific inter-ministerial conference (CIM). Last October, you said that the first meeting of this ICD had still not been held, because the list of issues that it had to deal with had not yet been determined. What about seven months later? Do you have a timetable, even provisional, for the work of this ICD? Finally, a recent study of UCLouvain revealed that 26 per cent of the homeless were children. What targeted measures are you planning to take to get these children out of the street, first and foremost, as a matter of urgency? Let me turn to my second question. Last month, the Youth Forum, the official body representing young people aged 16 to 30 in French-speaking Belgium, published an extensive opinion containing a number of recommendations to end homelessness, particularly among young people. This opinion sets out several avenues which could very well be coordinated between the federal and the federated entities. This is quite good, since it was decided several months ago that a Youth ICD, whose first meeting was to be held in the middle of this month, would be organised. However, I hear that no federal minister is, for the time being, involved in this work. It's quite challenging. Have you taken note of the recommendations made by the Youth Forum in the opinion that I explained earlier? What do you finally take from this opinion? What follow-up do you intend to do in general, what action have you taken and what are the proposals currently on the federal government's table to end youth homelessness and to combat youth insecurity? In your General Policy Note 2022, you refer to the work of the Housing First Lab, which organizes the support, promotion and development of the Housing First model in our country. It is, of course, an essential initiative supported by the Youth Forum. A call for projects was launched in August 2021 to finance the implementation of nearly 100 new paths of Housing First, with particular attention to homeless young people. Can you give us an update on this initiative? Have the trajectories been launched today? How many young people would benefit from it? What is the target age range? Can additional trajectories be funded in the near future? Finally, do you confirm that no federal minister is currently involved in the work of this Interministerial Youth Conference? Do you not consider it appropriate for your FPS to be associated with it given the centrality, the problem of poverty and homelessness among young people? If the first meeting has already taken place, what has emerged about the competencies that are yours?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u27	Madam Member, although the powers assigned to the federal government are really residual in this area, I am trying to bring about lasting solutions. I wanted to give the federal government a role as an incubator for innovative practices in order to spread them across the country. So I multiplied the calls for projects around the Housing First, you said. For example, EUR 10 million was allocated for investment in housing for homeless people and EUR 2.5 million was used to increase support for Housing First projects via the National Lottery. With my administration, we are already thinking about the theme of the next call for projects. So there will be a new one. With regard to the Youth Forum, I received them last January at my office to discuss the work in progress. They have forwarded this report to me and I have read the recommendations. Aware of the problem, I wanted the last two calls for housing First projects to include street youth. In the case of the "Increase of the Housing First Trajectories" call in six months, 30 new workers were trained in methodology with the support of the Housing First Lab. As a result, 25 new housing First accompaniment trajectories have already been started and are being prepared. At the same time, I submitted to my colleague Annelies Verlinden a new circular clarifying the use of the reference address, which we should be able to publish before the end of the year. With regard to the updating of the cooperation agreement, we have begun to draw up with the federated entities a list of points on which we will have to work. I will entrust my administration with organizing preparatory meetings from the start of the school year to convene the ICD as soon as possible. Concerning the Youth ICD, I called - from 2020 - for its creation and expressed my wish to participate. The designations are still under way. I hope that it will help to strengthen policies at all levels of power, for the benefit of young people in general and those who are particularly vulnerable. To put it simply, I ask to be part of it. However, the federated entities have still not answered me. Lastly, the situation of homeless and poorly housed children was unacceptable. This is a direct consequence of the poverty of parents, which reminds us of the urgency of extracting them from them. This is why structural support measures such as increasing social minimums or federal support for CPAS – the last safety net – are essential. This is also why we are developing projects to support single-parent families. You also know that I wanted to launch ten pilot projects to combat child poverty in CPAS, for a budget of EUR 1.2 million, and that I am committed to the European Guarantee for Children. Despite the theme, it is the federal government that coordinates this issue. This guarantee focuses on housing – the competence of the federated entities – and is part of a collaborative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Your task is arduous, since your skills are residual. Despite this institutional lasagna which does not work for you, I thank you for taking initiatives to update this cooperation agreement on homelessness. In any case, this will became apparent from your first general policy note. For the reference address, I understand that work is under way with the Minister of the Interior. As for the Housing First model, I understood that you wanted it to be sustainable. This is essential, since this model is now bearing fruit. I also thank you for meeting with the Youth Forum. It is essential to consult the first concerned who were too put on the sidelines during the health crisis. We must not repeat this mistake, given their growing precariousness, even if I would have wanted to know more about your work schedule. As far as the Interministerial Conference on Youth (ICM) is concerned, I am in complete misunderstanding. You say that you have requested it, but that it has not so far been accepted. I do not understand the reasons, because this is also one of the great lessons of the health crisis: we must ensure that all levels of power come together to draw up a plan for reviving young people. There was a political will, but now that we are considering this lever, we are not making sure to activate it and have all the necessary resources around the table. It's really a failure! I hope that your request will be finally heard. Finally, with regard to the problem of youth poverty, it is true that there is important upstream work to be done in support of parents, and single-parent families in particular. The Défi party supported a plan to support single-parent families in the Brussels Region. So I can only support you. There are, however, elements to be developed individually at the level of young people, including access to scholarships, housing, etc. Here too, the ICD is justified, in particular with you, but also with the federal ministers responsible for employment and finance, in implementing a real tax reform that could make life easier for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u29	Madam Minister, at the last plenary session we had already had an exchange of views on the Gas and Electricity Fund, the fund by which the OCMWs can provide support to families who are struggling to pay their energy bills. According to Article 2 of the Law of 4 September 2002 on that fund, anyone can claim the Gas and Electricity Fund, whether those people are already clients of the OCMW or not. We keep our finger on the wrist with our council members in the OCMW's and the special committee. This shows that some OCMW members reserve the fund for people who are already clients of the OCMW. Some OCMWs also seem to oblige people to go into budget guidance or budget management before they can claim that fund. That is not in accordance with the law. Do you agree with me that every OCMW is obliged to open the fund to everyone, including those who are not yet clients of the OCMW? Have you received any signals that there are OCMWFs who don't? In what way will you intervene with OCMWFs that do not apply this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u30	Mrs Reynaert, the tasks of the Gas and Electricity Fund are clearly defined in the law of 4 September 2002, as you said. I won't read the article. It is clear that budget support is not a condition for getting help, although it can be considered as support in itself. Only a social study can determine what help is needed, adapted to the specific situation of each person. Sometimes it is about payment of the account, in other cases it is about budget management or the replacement of a defective device and sometimes it is about a combination of the various measures. In short, there are no conditions other than those laid down in the law, namely that the person concerned is in so much debt that, despite all his efforts, he is no longer able to pay the gas and electricity bill. The aid does depend on social research and is therefore not unconditional. For the rest, I don't know any OCMWs who would basically refuse assistance to non-clients, apart from a social investigation. However, if that is the case, any decision of the OMCW may be challenged before the labour court. You can always tell me when this is a problem in different OCMWs. However, I do not think that is the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for the very clear answer. It is quite clear that there is no condition other than that it can be granted after a social investigation. However, there is no other condition. We would have liked that answer. We will of course pass it on to our council members who are working on the dossier at the local level. We will also report that they may, if necessary, bring a case before the labour court.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u32	Madam Minister, I read a lot about pensions, because I am interested and fit in with my mandate. For example, I stumbled upon the fact that the risk of voluntary work appears to increase when one of the two partners retires and the other one continues to work. The concept of working involuntarily means that one would rather retire to enjoy it together in a romantic way. In this respect, there are a number of labour experts who recommend that partners should be able to donate pension rights to each other. This is not about passing on rights. The oldest partner would then continue to work a little longer and would then be able to pass on his retirement points or whatever it is called "to his younger partner" so that they could retire at the same time. That would be a win-win situation for both. I think this measure is even budget-neutral. He does increase the welfare of the couple. How do you view this principle of marketable pension rights within a couple?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u33	Mr Van der Donkt, donating pension rights between partners could be a solution to involuntary work. However, it would not provide a solution for single people, to whom no one can donate pension rights. In addition, we want to increase the activation rate in the older labour force. The principle of giving pension rights between partners is not included in the government agreement and is therefore not reflected in my pension reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u34	Madam Secretary, your comparison with the single people is a bit limp, but I will not go into more detail. However, it is not because it is not in the coalition agreement that it cannot be a good idea. Perhaps you can use it as a token for other elements that are in the coalition agreement but are difficult to achieve. It's a nice idea. Maybe you can take it with you, because it's budget-neutral and takes care of the well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u35	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u36	Mr Van der Donkt, the contract is awarded through the competition procedure with negotiation. It runs in two phases. In the first phase, the Pension Service announced the public contract and informed potential candidates of the selection criteria. This phase has now been completed. Three candidates were selected. In the second phase, the Pension Service invites candidates to submit their tender, after which negotiations can be started. This is done on the basis of a handbook approved by the local management committee on 29 April. This should allow the Management Committee to decide on the award of the contract by September. In the meantime, the Pension Service also organized a webinar for local authorities on 2 June. This showed a wide interest in the initiative. This procedure is followed closely and is on track.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your specific reply. To be continued, but apparently they are on schedule. I'll follow up on this, as I'm interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u38	Madam Minister, following the publication of the annual report of the Pension Office, the Ombudsman has charged that 78% of pensioners do not know that there are messages waiting for them online for mypension.be. According to the Ombudsman, new messages are only reported by e-mail, but only 22% of the 2.5 million pensioners have an address. This means that 78% of pensioners, a lot of people, only see the messages when they consult mypension.be. Moreover, they are not informed that the Federal Pension Service communicates a lot of payment information only digitally. Last year I asked you a similar question about the tax sheet of the simplified declaration proposal, which is made available only through mypension.be. Pensioners may ask for another paper version, but this option will only be published via the website. This year, too, I have many pensioners who like to check this out. It seems necessary to check this simplified tax return, because there are some things missing that have a huge impact on the taxes to be paid or because there are errors in it. The Pensions Ombudsdienst recommends that those who cannot continue to invest digitally in the accessibility via telephone and via reception points. In addition, pensioners who explicitly ask for this should continue to receive all the pension information on paper. How do you deal specifically with the recommendations of the Pension Office? What will you do with that in concrete terms? You would bet on professional access to mypension.be. We've already discussed this in committee. Can you give an update, since this is also an important point to bridge the digital divide?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u39	I would point out that, in view of the plenary session, the minister proposed to answer the attached questions, even if the people could not be present because of the many comings and goings that this generates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u40	Mrs Vanrobaeys, in their annual report, the ombudsmen write that almost eight out of ten pensioners do not know that there is mail waiting for them in their online pension file. It is more correct to say that three quarters of pensioners do not yet use mypension.be. They will, of course, receive their important correspondence on paper. Pensioners receive all important documents, either by post or via mypension.be. The Pension Service is aware that for the time being the online pension file is mainly a success for future pensioners. Of course, I recognize that there is a digital divide. That is why I think strong and accessible public services are so important. Digitisation is often a problem, especially for the socially vulnerable, but also for the elderly. However, I do not leave them to their fate and work on clear instruments, with particular attention to the accessibility of information. This is also in my policy statement. This issue is specifically included in the new administrative agreement with the Federal Pension Service. In addition, we want to create professional access to mypension.be. For example, social workers could help people in their digital contacts with social security. The Federal Pension Service makes a methodological analysis for this and will make a proposal for implementation this year. This analysis will identify the different needs of citizens and professionals and will show what is the best solution in the different cases. It remains essential to invest in telephone services, mail correspondence and reception points. The synergy between these different channels needs to be further developed. I will ensure that people who do not have the necessary digital tools or skills are reached through other channels. The Pension Service is currently examining this report. Thereafter, the Pension Service, together with the ombudsmen, will review the report in collective consultation, and then present the conclusions and possible action points to the Pension Service Management Committee. Then your questions will also be answered. So just give me a minute, okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u41	Madam Secretary, I agree with you when you say that there must be strong public services. Socially vulnerable people or pensioners who are not digitally connected already feel very abandoned. I also regularly take action against the disappearance of ATMs and bank offices. I'm getting a lot of reactions to that, too. This is actually the same thing. Because they want physical contact. You say that you will continue with the reception points, the correspondence and the telephone contact. I think this is super important to these people if you don't want them to feel abandoned by the government. I look forward to what will be rolled out in the footsteps of the report. However, I also see a role for the social workers there, through professional access. It is they who are in close contact with these people. They can provide their information so that they can, among other things, fill in their taxes properly. I think that is very important, but it is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u42	Minister, for the past two years, the King Baudouin Foundation has published a series of studies on homelessness and homelessness in Belgium. Recently, the Foundation counted 3,847 people forced to live in this situation. Even more worrying, one quarter of the people counted are children: 200 in Charleroi, 272 in Namur, 479 in southern West Flanders and 51 in Vilvoorde. The majority of them are fortunately not living on the street, but no child should have to suffer the instability of transit housing. Minister, we know that you attach great importance to the issue of homelessness and homelessness. You are also carrying out many initiatives to get citizens out of this unbearable situation and poverty in general. One of them is the digital accessibility of certain CPAS procedures and services, via the CPAS Online project. In your policy note, you mentioned that you were in the process of defining the contours of a form that would allow an aid applicant to make an electronic first contact with a CPAS in order to introduce a file. Can you tell us where you are in this project? Will it be accessible to a public facing a situation of homelessness or absence from home? Could you assure me that the services offered on this platform will continue to be provided by the various CPAS antennas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u43	Dear colleague, I am working with my administration on a number of projects necessary to combat poverty, including the issue of the automation of rights and the administrative simplification referred to here. This simplification is important for social workers in order to reduce their workload and enable them to devote themselves to social support. It also helps to avoid errors and ensure uniformity of rights in the territory. This still removes some of the barriers that citizens face when applying. With this in mind, I set up a working group on administrative simplification, bringing together my firm, the PPS Integration, the country's five major CPAS, the CPAS federations. One aspect of the ongoing work is the simplification of application procedures, the aim of which is to prevent citizens from having to provide information already available to the public authorities. To this end, the CPAS Online project is being developed to enable citizens to apply to a CPAS via an online form instead of on-site. The project is progressing well. The principle and value of the form were validated by the working groups. By the end of the year, we should present the projects to IT firms for development and introduction into CPAS software. In 2023, we will work on enhancing the functionality of the form. This form is also developed in collaboration with experts from the experience to ensure its readability, understanding and effectiveness. The goal is to make it simple and fast. While this project can benefit social workers, on the one hand, and citizens who would prefer a first virtual contact, on the other hand, it does not replace the other possibilities of applying for assistance. It should be noted that these terminals will be made available. This is important for people without absorptive care who have no access to the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am obviously very satisfied. The process is under way. It will soon be put in place and it is true that for homeless people it is not always easy to obtain the correct information. Even the step towards the CPAS is sometimes as complicated. Then, combined with the digital divide, the approaches are likely to be very difficult for them. As you have just said, the aim is that it is simple, fast and that it benefits the partners as well as the people concerned. Congratulations! I'll be sure to re-examine you by 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, almost every pensioner can consult his pension file online today via Mypension. That is, of course, a good thing, but there are still many problems in practice. This is also mentioned in the annual report of the Pension Office. For example, he says that, in the case of several exceptional situations, incorrect calculations are made when calculating the pension and/or the early retirement date. Consideration should be given to how a systematic check on the accuracy of the data entered can be carried out. The Pension Service itself also indicates that this control, for example in the case of diploma data, is often lacking. This may lead to incorrect data being transmitted in some cases. In addition, there is poor communication between the different services responsible for calculating the pension. It is then important to look further at the digital aspect. Indeed, around 10% of Belgian households do not have an Internet connection. There's a digital divide. Older people are also often less familiar with new technologies and have more difficulty finding their way on the Internet. This is not the case with everyone, but with some of the people, sometimes also with young people. This creates an inequality between citizens who have better digital knowledge and those who do not have this knowledge. There is a need to invest in sufficient human contact so that people looking for information about their pension or their pension calculation through human, telephone contact can find that information. It cannot be the intention of pensioners themselves to have full responsibility for the control of their data. Sometimes a person doesn't either. Moreover, there is a major need for knowledge of pension legislation and an understanding of the logic and algorithms of the calculation barema's. What do you think is the best way to globalize this systematic control over all data? What are your conclusions on the communication between the various services such as career management and the SIGEDIS association communicating with the Career Management Service? What do you think could be better? In your view, what would be the best way to bridge this digital shift within the pension domain and ensure that no retired person is adversely affected by a lack of knowledge or skills?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u46	Mrs Lanjri, citizens are not supposed to have to check their own career records. That is why I am committed to proactive and automatic monitoring of career data. The administration shall verify that the data are correct and consistent. Only then can they be used to estimate the pension date and amount on MyPension. I am well aware that the retirement date is very important for citizens and their pension planning. If there is any doubt as to the quality or completeness of the career data, there is no estimate of the pension date and/or the pension amount given on mypension.be. After its good technical development, the Pension Service also works proactively. My ambition is that every citizen knows when to retire before his earliest retirement date. In line with the recommendation of the ombudsmen, the Pension Service is already examining today the careers of citizens who have not yet retired 19 months before their legal retirement date. With regard to your second question, my services are already being encouraged today to make every effort in their daily contacts with citizens to respond quickly and adequately. For the digital shift, I refer to my reply to Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs De Block just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u47	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I didn't understand why my question wasn't merged with the other one either. Anyway, that's okay. We will certainly look into this further. Thank you for your answer. Thank you also for your efforts to take some recommendations of the Pension Office to heart. I think it is very important. You've already done a number of things, such as proactive contacting people. But it's really not an unnecessary luxury to make your services sit together with the Ombuds service Pensions to address the other pain points that come up. The Pensions Ombudsdienst is confronted with concrete files, with miscalculations, which are still happening today. I believe that you also intend to solve the problems. I think it would be useful to continue sitting at the table with the Pensions Office. I hope you will take that suggestion to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u48	Mr Piedboeuf is probably held in plenary. I am told that the debate is lively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u49	Madam Chair, he turned his questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u50	In the BTB podcast, you say that the affordability of pensions is a matter of social and political choices. You conclude that we should not talk about pensions in the light of unaffordability, but in the light of priorities. What priorities do you propose to finance your pension plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u51	In the coming years, the number of pensioners will increase sharply. An increase in expenditure on pensions is inevitable, however, if we, as a society, choose to give older people an income that enables them to live in good conditions. At least that's my ambition. In order to address the budgetary impact of ageing populations, a policy based on three pillars should be pursued: structuralally sound public finances, a healthy and dynamic economy by increasing employment rates and productivity and controlling the projected increase in pension expenditure. These three aspects cannot be seen separately. For example, a healthy and dynamic economy is of course important for achieving structurally sound public finances, but increasing economic support is also crucial for financing pension expenditure and, in the event of enlargement, for adequate and effective social protection. To this end, we need to increase labour force participation and productivity. The government has already taken many measures to achieve this objective. Of course, the pension reform will also focus on measures that encourage people to work longer, including through a pension bonus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u52	Madam Minister, you are right to talk about the three pillars, but you are putting a rather strong emphasis on the level of effectiveness. The financing of social security is already needed for equally exciting debates. They were already here in committee together with experts and civil society. Why don't we get back to that? Consideration could be given to shifting budgets in general resources to health care, introducing a capital tax, implementing green reforms, restoring employers' contributions, stepping up the fight against tax fraud and cutting net wage cuts. So I'm a little disappointed by your answer. I'm waiting for the full package.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u53	Madam Minister, at the beginning of the legislature you announced that you would raise the minimum pension to EUR 1,500. At that time, you explained how that would be implemented. First, the pension amount would be increased gradually by 11 % in 2024. A specific budget has been made available for this, and we cannot deny that. Secondly, you are counting on the allocation of the wealth envelope. Finally, these increases would be added to the indexation. For example, the minimum pension should be EUR 1,500 in 2024. Thanks to rising inflation, you are on course to get that amount by 2023. However, I wonder to what extent that is really the merit of your policy. Is indexing for pensioners, just as for employees, no longer an adjustment to the increased lifespan rather than a real increase in pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u54	Mr Colebunders, the minimum pension will gradually be increased towards EUR 1,500 net for the full career. That's what the coalition agreement says. When an agreement was reached in the framework of the government negotiations, it was assumed that minimum pensions would increase on the basis of several factors. First, it concerns the increase of 2,65 % each on 1 January 2021 until 1 January 2024. These increases were approved in December 2020 and result in a total increase of more than 11%. There are two welfare adjustments, which were expected to be 1 % per year, i.e. accumulated more than 4 % in 2024. The third factor is the index adjustments, which would increase pensions by 2% each, i.e. more than 6% in total. As a result of the first two factors, namely the annual increase on 1 January and the welfare adjustments, the purchasing power of persons with a minimum pension is increased by more than 15%. The index adjustments, for their part, maintain the purchasing power of income in the context of rising prices. It is clear that prices are rising much faster than initially expected. In the meantime, four index adjustments have already been made. The Federal Planning Office expects further adjustments in autumn 2022 and at the beginning of 2023. In this case, there would be no three but six index adjustments during the current legislature. These additional index adjustments result in the minimum pension for a full career of 45 years at the end of the legislative period exceeding EUR 1,500 net. In any case, the purchasing power of persons with a minimum pension will have increased by more than 15%. Let me make it clear once again that the unseen revaluation of the minimum pension is not swallowed up by inflation. In addition to this increase, we have guaranteed automatic indexation and the envelopes for prosperity. With the PS on board, the purchasing power of the employees, active or inactive, is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u55	Madam Minister, that amount of EUR 1,500 did not come from the sky. In 2019 that was the election slogan for many left-wing parties. Even other parties have taken over that slogan. That amount of 1,500 euros was determined from the point of view of what people need to live decently in 2019. We agree that by 2024 the amount of EUR 1,500 will not be worth the same. If we calculate the current inflation rate for 2024, we should reach EUR 1 750. That is a very different number than the EUR 1,500. As far as your achievements are concerned, 43 per cent of the increase is due to the increase in minimum pensions, as laid down in the Royal Decree of December 2020, 41 per cent is linked to indexation and 16 per cent is the result of the granting of the welfare envelope. So more than half is the result of things that you have no influence on at all. If you're gonna put that feather on your hat, I'm gonna find that pure announcement policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u56	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u57	Colleagues, for several years the reports have followed each other and are all more alarming than the others. Last year, the employment rate of employees with disabilities was just over 1%. We were previously at 1.06% - even lower than the already unglorious 1.22% of 2020. The reasons for this reduction are, of course, multiple: retirements, unreplaced departures of employees with disabilities and the general decrease in recruitment in the Public Service - in ten years, the number of federal employees has actually decreased by 25%. These results make me angry. I refuse that in 2022 the government will simply take note of such failures and turn to something else. We need to move to a higher speed in order to make things move for good. So, together with the Minister of Civil Service, I will certainly see to it that the recommendations of the BCAPH are implemented, but I do not think that will be enough. That is why I intend to propose to the Council of Ministers a strategy to promote employment for people with disabilities in the federal government. This strategy would first of all aim to empower all administrations, their presidents and ministers responsible. It is essential to be aware of the stakes and the objective pursued, but also to confront each entity with its shortcomings and shortcomings. Each lead will need to present clear commitments, as well as solutions and initiatives to deliver on them. If they are completed, I propose to consider an incentive system, resulting in partial immunization of the savings efforts imposed on the Public Service. If, on the other hand, the objectives were not achieved, I would propose to develop a sanctions mechanism. In view of the stakes that this project represents, I mean that we should be accompanied by experts. As you can see, I want the entire government to commit to this. In this context, contacts have already been made with the Prime Minister's cabinet and Minister De Sutter's office. Then we go to the NHRPH. That is, the Supreme Council. In conclusion, when we talk about public services and public jobs, we must be exemplary. Indeed, the good practices we apply as a public authority affect society as a whole, which must be inclusive. Mrs Samyn, a mid-term review of the Federal Disability Action Plan will be carried out in the second half of this year. With regard to the promotion of employment for people with disabilities, I refer to the legislative amendment on the price of work. That is certainly my most important achievement in this area since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but let us be honest, the situation is downright sad. Soon I will ask you what you were going to tell us about our disability policy in New York. I hope you didn't wave the employment figures quoted. What I warned about in committee at the end of 2019 has unfortunately become true: many plans again, many strategies and evaluations and more promises. In fact, however, legislative work still needs to be started. The legislature's already halfway through. You can impose quotas, but that is in fact a weakness. In the absence of a policy, quotas are set. That's how responsibility is put on someone else. It is not the first time I have questioned you; it will not be the last time. People with disabilities deserve more than our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your desire to move to a higher speed. It is true that this subject is not simple. Indeed, employment is not decreed. But a specific action plan, with objectives and possibly constraints, is a necessary step. I also agree that public services must lead by example. But this is not the case so far. So I can only invite you to move forward and in the direction you have indicated. It would be interesting if, once this dossier has been approved by the Council of Ministers, our committee could be aware of it and discuss it more fully. In any case, I can only encourage you to continue your efforts. In any case, you have the support of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u60	I guess this is an invitation, Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u61	I have never heard a group say that it is necessary to reduce the integration of persons with disabilities or do nothing to promote their integration. I therefore rely on a long-standing political consensus on this issue. Without wishing to move me forward for everyone, I do not think that I could be denied on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u62	The invitation was, in any case, well understood, including with regard to the presentation of the leads.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u63	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I have reviewed the Federal Disability Action Plan (2021-2024). On page 22, it clearly states that the federal government believes it has a responsibility, an exemplary role to play in the employment of persons with disabilities within the federal authority. While recruitment difficulties exist, concrete action is essential. I hear you're going to make the administration aware, or even put some pressure on it. This may, for example, also result in targeted recruitment campaigns, job descriptions with a specific profile, or even changes in current recruitment procedures. In any event, federal public services must lead by example. Otherwise, it will be increasingly difficult to impose on private employers the involvement of persons with disabilities. I am obviously joining my PS colleague. You also have the full support of my group to carry out your policy for persons with disabilities and their recruitment into the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u64	Madam President, I would like to say that we are currently recruiting close to 100 employees from the Disability Branch. I have indeed obtained the necessary finances in the budgetary conclaves. In this context, together with the Chair of the Social Security FPS Steering Committee, we conducted a targeted campaign on persons with disabilities and asked the Selor to conduct targeted reviews. Indeed, a person with arms mobility difficulties must have more time to respond to a computer questionnaire than someone with full mobility. For the visually impaired, while nothing was planned at Selor, there will now be reasonable accommodation. It was time, but no one had done it before. We are working in this direction, and recruitment is taking place. If you know any candidates, do not hesitate, because a large number of positions are open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u65	Madam Minister, you have undoubtedly also been given access to the country report 2022 for Belgium from the European Commission. I would like to draw your particular attention to the chapter on "Sustainability of Public Finances." It states that the effective retirement age in Belgium in 2018 was 61.9 years. In the Commission's view, this is too low. And it is particularly the case in the public sector. In this sector, half the working population is already retired by the age of 60, and 22% even retires before that age. I was surprised by that. What do you think when you see those numbers? Does that scare you, too? Or can better figures be presented today, as the mentioned 2018 figures date? Do you have any forecasts of the evolution of those figures? Are you planning measures, mainly in the public sector, to motivate people to stay longer at work? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u66	Mr van der Donkt, increasing the employment rate is one of the main objectives of this government. In this way, we strengthen the Belgian economy and increase economic support for adequate and effective social protection. Pension reforms in the past focused on raising the effective retirement age. Their impact is reflected in the figures. In 2000, only 25% of people between 55 and 66 were employed: 35% of men and 15% of women. I'll get you the numbers. Currently, in 2022, that is 52% and the number of workers in this age group is projected to rise further to 63 % in 2030 and 68 % in 2040. The number of people in the civil service system taking up their pension before the age of 60 is also falling. In 2018, they accounted for 22% of the new pensioners in this pension system. In 2020 the figure was 15%. We want to accelerate this trend towards an increase in the employment rate for 55+ people. The pension reform will therefore have an important focus on measures that encourage people to stay longer on the job. A pension bonus will therefore be introduced, allowing people who continue to work after the date on which they would be able to take up their early retirement to build up additional pensions. This scheme would apply both to employees and to self-employed and civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u67	Madam Secretary, it is to your credit that you are concerned about the figures and that you want to do something about them. I hope you do not hope to find too much benefit in the pension bonus, because it has not really done its job in the past, unless you want to work out a glorified form of it. So I'm looking forward to what this is gonna do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u68	I am indeed aware of the problem outlined. Reconciliation of privacy and user-friendliness is, as always, a challenge. The FPD doesn't answer by e-mail. The European GDPR directives make this impossible. All messages from the Pension Service are also available on the eBox and the citizen can also opt for classic mail. In several countries, Europeans can already use eIDAS to register from other European countries. The system is in full development today. Today it can already be used by citizens from thirteen European countries, including Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Spain and Italy. Since non-Europeans and Europeans from certain countries do not or do not yet have access to eIDAS, a project has been launched by the federal government to digitise local registration offices. That is where the citizen can get help in the logging-in process. A digital key is created together with the information officer. Since 2019, the Pension Service has already issued more than 400 digital keys. Other slopes are also walked to sensitise the citizen in order to maintain the digital connection with Belgium, even after a move. I will certainly take up the issue with Mr Michel on the basis of his cross-cutting power to digitize to make our digital services such as Mpypension.be as accessible as possible. The Pension Service closely follows up all developments in that domain and is always looking for the opportunity for its pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u69	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I note that you are going to deal with the problems that I have encountered through the Pensions Office. That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u70	Madam Minister, who has worked for at least 30 years will have access to the guaranteed minimum pension if he or she does not have sufficient pension. Therefore, anyone who has contributed to social security for at least 30 years should not have to worry about his or her pension. That is a good thing. Moreover, the minimum pension has already been increased several times and it will be increased to EUR 1,500 net for a full career, which we naturally welcome. Unfortunately, however, there is still some error, even for those who have worked for more than 30 years. Employees with mixed careers who have worked for a number of years in the public sector and for a number of years in the private sector or as self-employed persons and who even reach 42 years are not entitled to a minimum pension. Let me give you an example from practice. A woman has worked for 6 years as an employee, 22 years as a self-employed person and 15 years as a civil servant. She has worked for 43 years, but she does not receive a minimum pension, because only the first 28 years are counted and not her years in government. She's the one who complained to the Ombudsmen. She replied that the problem has been raised since 2009, but that it is up to the political world to change the law. Madam Minister, I am sure we all find it unacceptable that anyone who has worked for 43 years should not be eligible for the minimum pension. Should the distinction in pension calculation be maintained for people with mixed careers versus others? Will you ensure that employees with mixed careers are also entitled to a minimum pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u71	I am familiar with the problem of mixed careers in terms of access to the minimum pension. The distinction between people with mixed careers and others is indeed not justified in my opinion. In the context of the government pension reform, discussions are ongoing on the modalities of the minimum pension. The problems mentioned can certainly be addressed in this context. However, you will no doubt understand that it is difficult for me to anticipate the discussions that are going on between the government partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u72	Thank you, Minister, it is good to hear that you will put that problem on the table when discussing the criteria for entitlement to the minimum pension. I realize that this discussion is in full swing. I have already asked questions about this in the past, as I am concerned that if too many years of work are demanded, many women will fall out of the boat. You gave me figures at the time, and it was indeed a worrying point. Nor is it right that people who have worked for more than 30 years, 40 years and even 43 years, some of whom have been in the government, should not be eligible for the minimum pension. I hope that this discrimination will be eliminated as soon as possible. That should have happened before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u73	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u74	Mrs Samyn, as has already been pointed out, I asked my administration to draw up a new draft law following the advice of the Inspector of Finance and the Council of State. The draft law goes one step further than the judgment of the Constitutional Court, by not restricting the preferential tantième to level 2 and 2+ customs officers, who were included in a single motorised brigade on 1 January 1939. The majority parties discussed the text. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State for the Budget has not yet agreed. That is why, in Committee A of 2 June 2022, I re-submitted the first draft approved by the Council of Ministers in order to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. All the parties present on the A Committee have signed a protocol agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u75	Madam Secretary, there is therefore a slight movement in the matter. After all, the original draft law is more than a year old. Our interplay would have responded positively to you two months ago. However, there was still no movement in the matter. The customs officers concerned must certainly not remain hungry. I also believe that it is really not the time for social unrest, which is taking shape here and there. Look at the airport and public transport. It would be a shame if our ports were to be shut down as well. I would also like to return to the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Individuals do not have the means to enforce such a judgment for themselves. I therefore sincerely hope that in the interests of those affected they will be given a certain number of months to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u76	Mrs Samyn, we regret the previous government's decisions on the treated periods. These are currently being discussed by the Council of State. An action for annulment was brought. More than a year ago, a pleading was filed, but no hearing was planned until today. The government agreement does not provide for a limitation of the periods that count for the pension. That concludes the discussion for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you for this brief answer. This example is only one of the many inconsistencies that have crept into the pension system over the years, including the conditions for obtaining the minimum pension, the pitfalls for those who have worked in two or more statutes, let alone those who work for more than 45 years. They are punished in principle and in the facts. I hope that there is still room in the pension reform to make that pension distribution fairer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u78	Madam Chair, Mr. Delizée, by definition, the doors of the CPAS are open to anyone in need. As a result of the social survey, it is up to the CPAS to determine the appropriate assistance to be provided. This can be achieved, for example, by helping to purchase such sweets. If there is no specific aid for users of gas cylinders, CPAS have a variety of devices to help them. The Gas and Electricity Fund that I refinanced to the tune of EUR 16 million in 2022 could help these people if they are at risk of debt or if they can no longer face the payment of their gas and electricity bills. As far as the Mazout Fund is concerned, the products eligible for allocations are: heating oil, lamp oil and bulk propane. Butane is not included in eligible products because it is not used for heating, as it freezes. A person who lives in an unconnected caravan and who, in order to heat up and cook, needs propane gas cylinders, for example, can therefore be assisted by the CPAS, in accordance with the first point of my answer, but not through the Mazout Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u79	Madam Minister, thank you. I recognize that this situation is often quite specific to rural areas. I am thinking in particular of people who live in small chalets or caravans and who were passing by the aids provided for other types of heating sources. I will therefore relay your answer to the CPAS of the rural municipality concerned. On the one hand, there is theory and, on the other hand, the autonomy of councils, etc. However, you are right to say that the goal is to help everyone. This audience is certainly among the most disadvantaged. It is the one who would most need energy aid, even if it is already a bit of DIY to use this type of means to heat up both well and badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u80	Madam Minister, three years after the adoption of the Law of 24 February 2019 amending the Programme Act providing for the allocation of the social tariff for gas and electricity, an amendment which provides that the social tariff for persons with disabilities is automatically granted retrospectively, with the same starting date as that of the right to a disability benefit, that provision is still dead letter. According to the FPS Economy, for technical reasons, automatic allocation is still not possible. When I asked you this question last year, you indicated that you and the Minister for Energy were working on a solution. You said there would be some kind of retroactive premium, which would compensate the people for those lost months of social tariff. Persons with disabilities are entitled to that social rate from the first day of the trimester in which they are recognised by DG HAN and entitled to a benefit. The Federal Ombudsman continues to raise the issue, so it has still not been resolved. Where is the impact of the retroactive premium? When will people get it effectively? I read about it here and there, but the premium is not yet effective. Will you continue to work with the Minister for Energy on this automatic allocation? Have you found a solution to that? Because that premium is only an intermediate solution, people with disabilities are entitled to an automatic award in application of the law adopted during the previous parliamentary term. I have also tabled another bill to provide a solution to those who, by regionalising these powers, lose a number of benefits to which they were entitled, including the retroactive social rate. What are your views on such an arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u81	Mrs Lanjri, the retroactive application of the social tariff is one of the measures in the Federal Action Plan. For me, this is an essential measure. It is up to my colleague, the Minister for Energy, to develop this alternative. I'm following this file with great attention. It is indeed envisaged to grant a premium instead of the retroactive application of the social tariff. This premium would compensate for the unallocated social rate between the date on which the decision granting the allowance was taken and the date on which the decision was notified. I thank Minister Van der Straeten for the good cooperation between our cabinets, as well as the FPS Economy and the CREG. Preparations for the introduction of this premium are under way, with a great deal of attention being paid to reducing the administrative burden. In view of the current context and the increase in energy prices, this is certainly an important issue for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u82	Madam Minister, the legislative proposal on the automatic allocation that I submitted was approved in Parliament. We must give what they are entitled to. If this is not technically possible for the time being, and we want to resolve it by means of a premium for the time being, then I can support it. However, I note that this has still not been done today. I hope that this will come soon and that this will be an interim solution. I also hope that people do not lose any rights. The premium that people receive is not intended to be lower than the amount to which they are normally entitled. I want the law to be respected and people to be given what they deserve. If that premium were to be fully compensated for, then I can agree with it. At present, the legislation is not being implemented while it is there. You are involved in defending the interests of people with disabilities. I hope you will urge Minister Van der Straeten to find a solution soon, because we have been waiting for it for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u83	Mrs. Reuter's not here, she just apologized. If you don't mind, you can answer his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u84	Minister, as part of a meeting with the selected CPAS, on May 31, you presented the fourth edition of the MIRIAM project. Born in 2015, MIRIAM aims to support single mothers in their fight against social insecurity and isolation. For example, 435 000 euros had been spent on each of the first three editions for the benefit of 6 CPAS and for a total of 270 assisted mothers. The project presented recently is therefore much more ambitious, and we congratulate you on this commitment. From 435 000 euros, we have increased to 4.5 million euros promised annually until 2024. This will support nearly 40 CPAS. In the first year alone, 1,100 women should be accompanied. The interest of this amplification, compared to the 2015 version, also lies in being able to touch some smaller CPAS. As such, I am pleased that Dison's CPAS has been retained. Another positive step forward is that, in addition to RIS beneficiaries, women receiving additional support or in debt mediation will also be able to access the benefits of the MIRIAM project. Finally, the age criterion for children – which was less than 6 years old – is no longer relevant. Minister, what are your expectations regarding this edition, particularly from CPAS? When will the MIRIAM platform be operational? What is the profile of the managers already in place? Are there moments of exchange of good practice with these for newly-invested CPAS?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u85	Mrs Bonaventure, I have indeed defended and obtained the increase in the resources available for the MIRIAM projects from 430,000 euros in budget to 4.5 million euros each year until 2024, with a series of novelties, as you recall, Mrs Bonaventure. This tenfold budget opened the project for the first time to all CPAS, both large and small, via a call. I welcome the enthusiasm of participating CPAS. I count on their commitment and hope for concrete results for this particularly vulnerable audience. With regard to Mrs Reuter's first question, the problem of single parenthood was a genré phenomenon. The figures show that more than 80% of the heads of these families are women in Belgium. In 2020, of the 50,840 single parents affected by RIS, 44,678 were women, or almost 90%. In addition, women tend to stay longer in isolation. The MIRIAM project was set up by the government, already in 2016, in response to this challenging finding and in order to combat gender inequalities. Men at the head of single-parent families can, of course, benefit from a classical accompaniment in CPAS. Regarding Ms Reuter's question on Walloon Brabant, the SPP Social Integration received a file from Wavre's CPAS which unfortunately did not achieve a sufficient score, following a selection made by a selection board on the basis of objective criteria and a clear rating system. However, Wavre will be able to reintroduce a file next year and can contact the Social Integration PPS to find out what needs to be improved. Finally, the case managers are social workers trained to accompany, for a period of one year, a maximum of 15 beneficiaries. Most of them are social workers. The accompaniment is collective, individual and regular. It concerns many aspects of the lives of beneficiaries, including socio-occupational integration. A budget of 57,500 euros is provided for each box manager. Do not hesitate to visit the site to see the project description. The platform will be launched as soon as possible. The PPS is standing by. It will allow the organization of trainings, exchanges of experience, moments of encounter. Currently, CPAS designate their box for eating and select moms. The project will start in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. When we communicated to Dison via various channels concerning the call for projects that we launched and fortunately obtained, many were the very positive reactions of the citizens who welcome this initiative in our community with happiness and relief. I hope that the results will live up to your expectations. In any case, many single-parent families in Dison and all over Wallonia will be able to find support, appeasement, and emancipation in their often difficult daily lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u87	Question No 55028604C by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u88	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u89	Never before has the federal government done so much for people with disabilities. I also fully support the objective you have mentioned. She's also included in the federal action plan. With regard to integration (IT) and the loss of derived rights, I have argued in the context of the price of work that people with a replacement income should not be forgotten. In that respect, however, I hardly received your party's support. Indeed, the Federal Action Plan states that I would like to have it examined whether it is possible to divide IT into a fixed and variable part. That measure requires a thorough analysis of the implementing provisions, which my administration will be planning in the coming autumn. I will keep you informed of any further developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u90	You say you didn't get any support from my party. However, it is a proposal that I made to you last year. I was glad you wanted to look into it then. You subsequently included the measure in your action plan. Maybe you're mistaken and it wasn't about the cited file. In any case, you can count on the support of CD&V for the IT proposal with a variable and fixed part. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u91	I asked you earlier, along with some other colleagues, about the delay in DG HAN. Apparently, it's not getting rid of it, quite the contrary. There are so many poignant situations being created. People do not receive an allowance for the growth package, nor a social tariff allowance for gas, electricity and water, because the identification of the handicap has to be done by DG HAN. We reached the poignant story of a six-year-old child who, due to a DNA disorder, is the age of a three-month period. Her life expectancy is ten years. So the clock is ticking unforgivingly for the parents. However, the revision of her file has been postponed for the umpteenth time, until May 2023. That is a very sad and poignant situation. Sadly, by the way, it's not the only file. Madam Secretary, what is the delay in DG HAN? Is there not a possibility to speed up the handling of such distressing dossiers, which relate to people with such short life expectancy? Do you have any data on the number of similar files?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u92	May I first remind you that the figures are on the DG HAN website? They are regularly updated for transparency purposes. In April, the average time limit for evaluation applications was slightly longer than seven months; for applications without evaluation, it was just under two months. The main reason for the long waiting periods is the shortage of evaluating doctors. That is why my administration is currently recruiting new staff with the budgets allocated to it at the latest conclave. Quietly, the multidisciplinary teams take shape. They will support the evaluating doctors and modernise the evaluation. I have always worked for a more humane and personalised policy, adapted to the needs of the citizens. Therefore, applications from people with short life expectancy are being dealt with more quickly today on the basis of specific questions raised in the authorisation of their files. Your story is indeed very sad, but I would like to point out that the Agency has managed the medical evaluation files of children since the sixth state reform. The transitional period expired on 13 June 2022. Therefore, my service cannot provide you with any information on those files.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u93	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I read the numbers, too. The backlog is 56,000 files. I have no doubt that's why you're worried. But you've been saying for months now that there's a shortage of medical personnel, of controlling doctors. That problem has been dragging on for months, or perhaps years, and it is a pity that there is no movement, especially for such dossiers. Even though these children are supposedly given priority, there is still a waiting period of one and a half years. That is absolutely incredibly poignant in such cases. Again, it's not a new problem. Unfortunately, it just doesn't work out. Moreover, remember that a large proportion of those with disabilities are people who are immoral. They often carry their suffering in silence. As a society, we must ensure that they receive all the support and attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u94	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55028847C) by Mr Vanbesien and Mr Vanbesien, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Van der Donkt's 55028891C will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u95	Mrs. Thémont, student insecurity is growing and you are right to stress it. The crisis of the covid has strongly affected, not to say stigmatized, young people in a crucial period of their lives: dropping out of school, isolation, loss of student employment, mental health, etc. Life has resumed, but there are lasting effects, especially for the most vulnerable young people, who cannot count on family support, including financial support. In the context of the crisis, I have indeed taken a series of specific temporary measures. You know them. But I have also perpetuated certain measures. I perpetuated the measure taken during the covid crisis in order to eliminate the difference in the amounts provided for in the socio-professional exemption, which penalized scholarship students compared to non-students. I have also increased the structural resources for food aid and developed material aid, particularly for menstrual protections, hygiene kits, etc. which unfortunately benefit, I want to add, also to young people. While we welcome the fact that less favoured audiences are increasingly entering higher education, we cannot ignore the inequalities and difficulties they face, the impact that this has on their chances of success. The number of students using CPAS is increasing. This is evidence of this phenomenon. To make ends meet, a scholarship or student job is not always enough to cover the costs. The increase in the cost of living is not going to solve this situation. I therefore invite all young people in difficulty to push the CPAS door. It is up to us to communicate positively on this subject, so that the approach is not mistakenly perceived as stigmatizing. To allow a young person to be helped by the CPAS is to give him the means to cope with a situation, which must be as short as possible, of precariousness. It is therefore also contributing to its emancipation. I will attend tomorrow's ULB event organized by the Street Law Clinic on this subject of student insecurity, and in particular the issue of non-use of rights. Indeed, many young people ignore their rights. In this regard, the Street Law Clinic has developed a great tool, a student's guide to social assistance. We need to encourage such initiatives to make access to social assistance simple, understandable, and even automatic whenever possible. In addition, on my initiative, a study is currently being conducted by the SPP Social Integration on young people in precarious situations who are separated from the CPAS. I hope to have the results at the end of next year in order to be able to better target youth policies. I am finalizing with my government colleagues a federal plan to combat poverty and inequality. In this context too, of course, we are ensuring that the specific dimension of youth poverty is taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u96	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. As you said, a student who has to look for solutions to be able to eat, it is also a student who cannot fully devote himself to his studies and exams, a student who will probably be exposed to prolongation of studies or to dropping out of school. It is therefore very important to help them right now to save them from future insecurity. I would really like to highlight all the measures that you have already put in place. I know it's a subject, among many others, that you're paying attention to. In my view, special attention should also be paid to the case of young people in situations of family conflict because it is often difficult for them to recover documents attesting to the income of the parents in order to be entitled to certain allowances, in particular through CPAS. As you say, knocking on the CPAS door is not an embarrassment. It is to be able, at some point, to get a listening and help when you need it most. I congratulate you again on everything you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u97	The budget for the FEAD 2022 campaign is 24 million, 6 million more than for the FEAD 2021 campaign. This increase allowed us to vary the products: we went from 20 products to 27 products offered. The list of products is determined in collaboration with several partners, including the Federation of Food Banks, the Red Cross, the Saint Vincent de Paul Society and the Federation of Social Services, and according to several criteria. Different aspects are taken into account: nutritional aspects, diversity, feedback from beneficiaries, sustainability and impact on health. The ultimate goal is to offer beneficiaries a balanced and diversified FEAD food package. In doing so, we avoid food waste due to too large a volume or the distribution of unattractive food products. The food is controlled by my services before it is made available to the beneficiaries. Controls are carried out on 100% of the batches produced. Once this check has been carried out, the lots are released for distribution. The products are therefore transported to the large warehouses with which the FEAD collaborates. From there, they are distributed to the country's nine food banks and to the 750 FEAD-approved organizations and CPAS, so that they can be distributed to the public. Finally, products are distributed continuously throughout the year at a rate of two to three products per month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u98	I would like to point out that 24 million is not nothing for such an important thing. Support for food banks is essential to enable everyone to meet their most basic needs. The fight against food insecurity is also essential in order to break out of social exclusion. It is difficult to find a job or training when you have an empty stomach, as is the case with more and more people. And as you yourself pointed out, it is not because these are food packages that they must not be balanced and contain good products. I wanted to highlight this and I would like to congratulate you, because finding an additional 7 million is not nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u99	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u100	Mrs Samyn, last week I was in New York to propose our implementation under the UN Convention on the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities. Our country signed and ratified this convention in 2009. Belgium has taken important steps in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of abolishing the price of love, reducing the price of labour, raising the IVT to the poverty threshold and incorporating Article 22b into the Constitution. I am certainly also thinking of the federal action plan, the symbol of this government's commitment to handistreaming. As has already been said, we will evaluate this plan in October. I will then be able to present to you here in committee the actions that are already being carried out or on which we must continue to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u101	I look forward to the presentation of the action plan. You also rightly refer to a number of very important achievements that eliminate discrimination, such as the price of love and labour. However, there are still a number of points that need to be realised. That's why we keep knocking on the same nail. Sometimes we get the same excuses. However, this target group has the disadvantage that this matter concerns many different competent ministers and secretaries of state. Moreover, it also concerns powers of the federal and regional level, as well as those of the communities. In a press release on 31 May 2022, you announced that you would present five slopes on the government table to increase and further support the employment rate of people with disabilities. However, the measures announced are at least a little strange. One would even punish one's own federal services if they did not employ people with disabilities. Will you punish and punish yourself? It is also a little cynical that the relevant minister in New York is going to tell us how well the policy is going to be implemented here, while, and I refer to the question that has just been raised, there is a huge backlog in certain dossiers that is not being eliminated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government agreement stresses the importance of solidarity between the highest and lowest pensions. The contribution of solidarity to pensions contributes to this. It is only the 15% highest pensions that pay the solidarity contribution. I will not therefore call for this to be abolished. As I mentioned earlier, the calculation of social contributions on pensions should be more equitable. Today, for example, people who receive a small pension capital may pay more for additional social contributions over time than the amount of the capital. That cannot, of course, be the intention. My administration is currently preparing a draft law to address this problem. In practical terms, we will adjust the conversion coefficients used in calculating the so-called fictitious interest rate. As a result, people who received a small supplementary pension will have to pay a lower ZIV contribution. We follow the unanimous opinion of the National Labour Council. This bill will also provide a solution to the issue raised by the Pension Ombudsman in his annual report 2020. This is a problem in which some people are subject to a double deduction for a limited amount. That too is not correct and therefore needs to be addressed. The National Labour Council found that the conversion coefficients for calculating the solidarity contribution are also outdated, but that the adjustment of the coefficients may have undesirable effects. The Council indicated that this issue should be further examined and intends to deliver an opinion on it later, preferably by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u103	Madam President, Minister, it is a good thing that you are going to work on the calculation of this fictitious interest rate and follow it up. It is indeed unfair. The solidarity contribution causes a great deal of resentment among pensioners. Together with the ZIV contributions, this amounts to EUR 1.5 billion, which pensioners pay on their pensions and which does not take into account other taxes. We have already indicated that the method of calculating the solidarity contribution ensures that some people pay more contributions than they will ever have built up on additional pension capital. This can also be avoided by withholding from the source. There too, however, things are going wrong and there are pensioners who pay a double deduction from the ZIV. You referred to the ombudsmen, who are doing an excellent job. Implementing their recommendations is good and good governance, but from your answer I would say that you will take that into account. I'll keep following up on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u104	Madam Secretary, last Friday we read something very strange in La DH. It doesn't happen often that we can read something from the IF in the paper. The article was about federal aid granted to municipalities affected by the floods last year. That support was in itself a very noble objective. You responded quickly then, because on 23 July you declared that you would deliver EUR 20 million to the OMCWs of the affected municipalities, which is very commendable. At the end of August you made a first disc of 10 million euros. Now, however, it turns out that some 50 municipalities that were not affected by the flood have received money. It concerns a number of municipalities in the provinces of West Flanders, East Flanders and Antwerp. Only in the provinces of Flemish Brabant and Limburg were a small number of municipalities affected by the floods. How could something like that happen? The author of such a decision must see that it includes municipalities that do not belong in it. After all, the press clearly reported on the floods in Wallonia. The IF also complains that the normal procedure was not followed. I understand that you wanted to act quickly, but an urgent opinion from the IF is always a possibility. The newspaper article also said that the governors had passed on these names. I've contacted a number of governors myself. They fell out of the sky and declared that they had nothing to do with it. I also had contact with the Flemish municipalities of Ostend and Nieuwpoort, who stated that they had already returned the money because they had noticed the error. What went wrong methodologically? Have you been able to recover all this money? Why did it take so long, until last Friday at the Council of Ministers, to correct that mistake, since it dates back to last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u105	As Mrs Ingels said, the Finance Inspectorate's note shows that part of the first emergency aid disk has gone wrong, namely EUR 3.2 million. That's almost one sixth of the total. De Tijd was able to look at the note and summarized it as follows: "While the aid flowed to Flemish municipalities without damage, seriously affected Walloon municipalities are still waiting for the money." On 29 September, I questioned you on this matter in this committee, and I stressed to you that it remains particularly important to support the affected citizens in the affected areas. In doing so, it is of the utmost importance that the funds should reach the victims and be used effectively. You replied to me that this was an exceptional and flexible measure. When I read this, it's too flexible. The worst part is that some of the heavily affected municipalities in Wallonia are still waiting for money almost a year after the disaster. Liège is still entitled to half a million euros, Chaudfontaine at one hundred thousand euros, Wanze at one hundred fifty thousand euros and Trooz at almost two hundred thousand euros. Can you deliver the reports of the Treasury Inspectorate to Parliament? Do you agree with these conclusions? Who decided on this award? Was that you? Since when have you been aware of this? When and how did you eventually correct that? Which municipalities have wrongly applied for and received aid? I'd like all the municipalities and amounts. What exactly were these funds spent on? When will the affected municipalities, at the latest, receive the money they are still entitled to?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u106	As you can imagine, it was very difficult to get an overview of the affected municipalities just after the flood. The problem was how we could get a look at these figures. According to the government's decision, the first 10 million euros was distributed on the basis of the data obtained through the provincial governors. I don't have any numbers. A second tranche of EUR 10 million was distributed on the basis of the final data from the governments of the different regions. It turned out indeed that there were a lot of municipalities on the first disc that had overestimated the impact of the flood on their territory. As mentioned above, this was done in accordance with the text of the Royal Decree on the basis of the governor's records. It's in the KB. The basic KB was therefore amended at the end of December. The money paid out to OCMWs who, according to the final list, had no or fewer victims was recovered. This took account of any aid paid in accordance with the Royal Decree. In this dossier, we have asked the IF for advice four times, as is always the case. The third disc was approved by the government last week. This will enable the most affected municipalities to receive the support they are entitled to. Mr Colebunders, I think I have answered the broad lines of your question. For the detailed information you are asking me for, I suggest that you submit a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u107	Madam Secretary, I hear what you're saying, but the governors deny it. I find that very strange. I still find it strange that there will not be a light if no Flemish municipality is mentioned. Are you saying that what the IF told La Dernière Heure about that note is wrong? I think I can conclude from your answer that the IF has been questioned and that everything has been done in accordance with the methodology. But that's not what the press said. Is the IF lying in the press? I don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u108	Madam Minister, I do not want to make false accusations, but Parliament has an audit function. It is my duty to ask you about these problems. I went to the Veder Valley last summer to help myself for two months. The need was enormous there. I went to look again in December and January, and much had not changed. Those people are still in big trouble. It is very unfortunate that almost one sixth of the support you promised did not come in time and well. Obviously someone dropped and picked it up afterwards. That's what I hear from your story. I regret that we all have to hear this from the newspaper, but that is apparently the normal course of action these days. If local authorities ask for money that they are not entitled to, this might also mean something about structural underfunding. I would therefore like to receive all the information from you, including the two notes from the IF, to look at all this in detail. I will put a written question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u109	Madam Secretary, one of the reflections of your retirement plan is to enable early retirement to 60 years from 42 years of career instead of 44 years. This would allow workers with a long career to retire more quickly. So far, it has been mentioned in the press that the measure would allow 6,000 additional employees to retire every year. However, in a reply to a written question, 58 000 additional pensioners in 2024 are mentioned. How do you explain that difference? Can you tell us how many people in 60 years reach 42 career years and could therefore retire extra? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u110	Mr Colebunders, the figure of 6,000 people, which you are talking about, was never communicated by me to the press. So I do not know where that figure comes from, just like the figure quoted in connection with the floods. The only thing I can give you is that it is about a large group of about 58,000 people who, if they so wish, could retire a year earlier. This is due to the uniform career values of 42 years for early retirement. That's what I'm suggesting in my pension reform. I hope my answer has made it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u111	Madam Minister, that is what happens when we have to extract all the information from the newspaper and then filter out what is and is not the truth and what is right and what is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u112	Mr Colebunders, the truth lies with the Minister and not with the newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic829x.u113	I have no doubt about that, Madam Secretary. But if you do not speak and delay, we remain hungry. I'm staying with your confirmation that we're talking about 58,000 additional employees. I don't know where the 6,000 comes from. Anyway, for the time being, we're talking 58,000 people.
