ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u1	Mrs. Dierick is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, on Friday 22 April last the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft on the development of electronic registered eBox. I have always been a pioneer of such an initiative and have also tabled a legislative proposal on it. I believe that, thanks to positive cooperation between the majority and the opposition, we are moving in the right direction. We have said that we will wait for the government's text and then work constructively on it. What is the state of play today? When do you expect the text to come to Parliament? Could you give me more details on the content of the preliminary draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u3	Thank you, Mr Freilich, for your question. The idea of launching a single digital mailbox was made concrete with the eBox Act in March 2019. The objective was to enable public authorities, citizens and businesses to communicate with each other through a centralised instrument. In three years, the eBox has become the largest platform for secure digital communication with citizens and businesses. So far, around 2.5 million citizens and about 100,000 companies have registered for their use. However, there is still a long way to go so that eBox can become a truly unified platform. Given the heterogeneous nature of the Belgian institutional landscape, it is estimated that several thousand actors at federal, regional and municipal level do not yet use eBox to communicate. The ambition should be to transform the eBox into a true official digital residence for citizens and businesses. With that ambition in mind, I'm reviewing the eBox Act. What changes are we talking about? Firstly, for eBox, we allow two-way traffic, so that citizens and businesses can also respond to messages they receive from the government. Secondly, public administrations which send a large number of registered consignments will have to send them electronically via eBox by 1 January 2025 at the latest. Thirdly, in accordance with the legislation on tax dematerialisation, the holders of a company number will have to put their eBox into service by 1 January 2025 at the latest. Fourthly, qualified registered shipping providers will be able to send citizens and businesses notifications and ultimately messages via the eBox. Fifth, concrete measures will be adopted to support the digital inclusion of citizens and SMEs. I am talking, among other things, about measures to ensure that messages are actually read. Mr Freilich, thank you for your question and all the more so for the constructive exchanges of views in the previous stage of the drafting of the relevant draft law. In the meantime, we have had a first reading in the government. The draft law is currently being submitted to several bodies, namely the Council of State, the GBA and the NAR. It will then be resubmitted to the Council of Ministers. Once these formalities have been completed, I will deliver the draft to Parliament. I hope that we will be able to continue our constructive exchange of views in the House. I am aware that the subject is close to your heart and that you share the ambition I have just outlined. As for Mrs Dierick's questions, from the beginning, the eBox was designed to be shared with the federated entities. This means that the eBox can not only be used by them for sending messages, but can also develop interface communication with citizens if they so wish. Flanders has made use of the possibility and contributes to the development of the eBoxecosystem with the application My Citizen Profile. In consultation with the federated entities and cities and municipalities, I would like to extend the use of the eBox. Such consultations shall take place either through the platform on eGovernment applications or through bilateral contacts. That consultation shows that the eBox is not yet sufficiently known or that the procedures for using it are still too complicated. An ad hoc working group has therefore been set up to discuss the issue at all levels. I have also asked the administrations that manage the eBox for citizens and the eBox for businesses to take measures to facilitate the introduction of the eBox by the main sending organisations. Proactive measures to support citizens and senders are also being considered. The aim is first and foremost to place the citizen and the company at the centre of all developments. Secondly, in addition to the presence of a helpdesk to answer questions, concrete projects are planned to promote digital inclusion. There is also the question of possible barriers in the development of the eBox. It will not be surprising that the budgetary requirements for achieving the eBox ambition are high. Until now, the competent public administrations have always had to compromise on the development of functionalities. In parallel with writing the draft law, I have therefore asked the administrations responsible for the development, management and promotion of the eBox to calculate the necessary budgetary resources. I will ask, together with the relevant ministers, for an increase in the funds allocated. In addition, there are also a number of technical and organisational barriers that still hinder massive acceptance by most potential senders. However, serious efforts have already been made to increase access to the platform. The biggest challenge continues to be overcoming the slowing factors in organisations that are considering using it for sending messages. Fortunately, we see that the fear of being the first is gradually replaced by the fear of being left behind. Moreover, we can also convince the doubters from pure corporate logic. Indeed, the use of the eBox provides short-term savings for the senders. As I have already indicated, the eBox Act is about to be amended. Thereafter, the public administrations concerned will have to be given time to implement the changes laid down by law. The eBox version 2.0 should therefore be launched in the course of 2023 with all new functionalities and the application of the measures planned to increase the number of senders.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u4	Your answer was a little too long under the Rules of Procedure, but for once I will allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, I have noted that 2.5 million citizens are connected to the eBox, i.e. just under 25% of the Belgian population, and 100,000 companies, slightly less than 10% of the companies in our country. I think there is a need for a serious catch-up movement, all the more so since the citizens are connected with more. I would also like to thank you for your constructive cooperation. Finally, you have noted that from 2025 the government is obliged to send registered shipments via the eBox. You have failed or perhaps your cabinet has noted the error, because it is not about the mandatory sending via the eBox, but about the reception. One cannot force the elderly to activate an eBox. When we talk about senders of qualified registered shipments that can use the eBox, it is also about receiving it, not necessarily about sending it. These are important details, which I would also like to clarify, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 55026535C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u7	Mr President, the GovApp application was developed at the request of the Interministerial Health Conference in view of the significant costs generated by the sending of text messages in the context of the covid-related health crisis. The basic functionality of this application is relatively simple: to receive and display short messages related to the covid containing text and certain media such as two-dimensional images or QR codes. This application therefore offers a more modern solution that also meets new needs. I would remind you that SMS is a technology that is more than thirty years old. The most obvious benefit lies in cost-effectiveness. This new implementation is expected to result in significant savings. Thanks to the text messages, we were able to reach millions of people quickly, but the expenditure was proportional. Until a few months ago, monthly costs exceeded EUR 800,000. Today, we have a project with an estimated total short-term cost of around €80,000. With an estimated SMS cost of around EUR 300 000 per month in the normal period, even a 10% replacement of the SMS volume per App message would achieve the profitability threshold in less than six months. If you would like more information on these issues, I invite you to ask my colleague in charge of Health. For my part, the GovApp application is an interesting tool that could be applied to purposes other than those mentioned above. I think it would be interesting to analyse the opportunities to extend this application to institutions other than those of Health in connection with covid. However, we must have guarantees on the functioning of this application. According to the information given to me, GovApp respects privacy and does not record the identity but only the telephone number. In addition, the authorities would not send personal data to GovApp. However, the information may relate to a specific situation but without reference to your identity. In terms of user experience, GovApp offers much more user-friendliness than short SMS notifications. GovApp messages can be longer and contain more information as well as links, photos, logos or videos. This dynamic is certainly to be developed in a safe and user-friendly environment for other purposes. Finally, with regard to the question of the digital divide, I stress that this is only a change of tool in the current situation, namely the transition from SMS to an encrypted message via an application. Like the CovidSafe app, which has been downloaded almost 8.5 million times in Belgium, it is an additional tool. The choice is obviously left to the citizen whether to download it or not. In addition, the use of text messages remains relevant. This allows me to highlight the importance of supporting people who have difficulty accessing federal digital platforms and remind you of a project that was initiated by me a few months ago, Connectoo. It should contribute to that support. In terms of the number of registrations on this project, many public servants, regardless of the level (community, province, region, federal) are sensitive to this problem and wish to contribute to the fight against the digital divide. I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Apart from the economic aspect which, obviously, is interesting in the application which you propose in view of the monthly costs of text messages, I must confess that I did not expect such a large cost. Being very attentive to privacy and the digital divide, you have reassured me generally on these points, especially on this old sms technology – thirty years, it's not so old! You're telling me that it stays in place for the people who still use it. First of all, it's a good thing. For the rest, I will ask your colleague from Health, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, the metaversum, a combination of virtual and augmented reality with ordinary online environments, is the successor to the mobile internet. Big tech invests heavily in the metaversum. Mark Zuckerberg even made it into the name of his company. Through applications in the metaverse, the boundary between real life and virtual life is becoming increasingly blurred. Our avatar will take our place in real life in virtual reality. The social media will be there, there will be economic transactions without the intervention of banks, for example purchases via non-fungible tokens. However, the design of the metaverse should not be left to the arbitrariness of big tech billionaires, nor to algorithms or artificial intelligence. It is up to the government to lay down clear rules guaranteeing legal certainty and protecting our personal data. What regulations can we expect around the metaverse? What timetable does the Secretary of State foresee for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u10	Mr President, Secretary of State, a few years ago, when Steven Spielberg adapted the novel Ready Player One, it was not possible to imagine how much this would grow and become a reality, even if it remains a virtual reality. By December 2021 Bloomberg estimated that the metavers would be close to $800 billion by 2024. Every day we see new applications showing what the future might be. Huge investments are announced, especially in real estate as far as the metavers is concerned. While we must be careful, these new virtual worlds seem to offer enormous opportunities for our citizens and businesses alike. What are the consequences in our everyday lives? How are we going to live with these virtual worlds around us? Secretary of State, I am sure that you support these new trends or at least you follow them carefully. Do you have a strategic view of the virtual world of metavers? What are the links with other technologies? What changes does the metavers bring to our citizens and businesses? I talked about real estate, but I guess there are others. What are the risks - obviously there are - and the challenges? What concrete actions are you already putting in place or are you going to put in place to ensure legal and economic security within the metavers? As every time there is a new technology, there is indeed this extremely important legal aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as your specific question on regulation is concerned, we should not reinvent the wheel. Legislation already exists, for example the GDPR, and European legislation is under way, such as the DSA and the DMA, which allows a large part of the problems to be solved on the Internet and in the virtual world. It is true that the technologies you call and which are part of the web 3.0 pose new challenges. We must therefore ensure that we have a robust regulatory framework that is suitable to respond to these challenges and can provide a safe virtual world for our fellow citizens. Like any new development, metaverse risks and challenges arise. As Secretary of State for Digitisation, it is important to me that the rights and duties of citizens in the real world are equivalent to those in the virtual world. In general, I am convinced that every new technology is making its share of progress. To maximize its impact, a comprehensive approach - legal, economic, technical and security - must be adopted. It is necessary to understand the benefits and better manage the excesses. The "Smart Nation" strategy, which I launched last year, aims precisely at creating more synergies and transversality between different ecosystems. The aim is to identify multiple initiatives in the field of metavers and to replicate best practices. Metavers can indeed produce various impacts in our society. Today, these virtual worlds are mainly found in areas of entertainment such as games and sport. However, new applications are emerging. In the human resources sector, for example, Carrefour has just conducted its first job interview in metavers. At the workplace, Meta introduced her Workrooms service during the epidemic. In information, virtual reality simulations make it possible to learn through experience. In the medical sector, numerous studies - one of which was conducted by the Johnson & Johnson Institute - show that training using virtual reality is more effective than traditional: + 230% performance improvement for surgeons trained by this method. Finally, in retail stores, augmented and virtual reality offers new shopping experiences in physical and online stores. It is therefore essential that our citizens and businesses take ownership of these developments in order to reap the full benefits. As Secretary of State for Numerization, I wish to bring together ecosystems so that they can participate in the creation of safe virtual spaces, while remaining entertaining and accessible to the public and economically viable for businesses. There are many legal and economic issues in this regard. That's why I asked my "Telecommunications and Information Society" department of the SPF Economy to carry out a study to analyse the legal and economic issues of the metavers and web 3.0 in general. As part of the Smart Nation strategy, I also set up a working group, under the supervision of my BOSA-DT administration, to deal with metavers, web 3.0, and blockchain issues. The aim of this working group is to assess the market for metavers and to propose concrete actions in this field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, you say that we should not reinvent the wheel, but at the same time you admit that the metaverse also creates new challenges and that there must be a robust framework. I therefore expect you to monitor this closely and to intervene in good time. If necessary, you will need to come forward with new legislation in good time. Moreover, we must be able to look at and evaluate this legislation so that it does not have to be rushed through Parliament, as is often the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I had no doubt that you had taken things into your own hands to assess the situation and, above all, not to stand back from the metavers. I will come back to see you for the results of these ongoing studies - at stake studies, working groups - to try to see how to channel all these new technologies that go very, very quickly. We must therefore try not to be late. I see you're anticipating and that's very good!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u14	Mr President, Minister, you want to give every Belgian a digital portfolio by 2023, as we have read. All documents would be bundled in it, such as identity card, driving licence but also visa or wedding book. A budget of EUR 50 million was made available for the project. You want it operational by 2023. Can you give me an update on the rollout? Where will the digital portfolio also have legal validity? Is that, for example, also at the airport in police control? Can you tell us if there are sufficient guarantees in the area of privacy and security?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u15	Mr President, Mr Freilich, thank you for your question. Firstly, the amount of EUR 50 million is not the budget for the digital portfolio. It is the budget of BOSA DG DT. However, most of the budget will go to the digital portfolio. Allow me first to remind you that the portfolio is based on the concept of digital identity. I mention this because it is fundamental in the light of the various digital projects that I am setting up, including the extension of the eBox, which you are also questioning me about today. The eBox should indeed be seen as a digital residence for citizens and businesses. In this sense, it is an essential part of the digital portfolio. You will therefore understand that the development of a Belgian digital portfolio is a spearhead of my digital agenda. Moreover, Europe is working on standards for a digital portfolio through a review of European eIDAS legislation. I am therefore watching that Belgian developments, in which we may regard ourselves in some respects as a precursor to other Member States, play a role at European level. What exactly are we doing? The digital wallet, also called wallet, will take the form of an app that can be used on a smartphone. It will include the following functionalities: a digital identity and identification services, to authenticate for online services, an signing system, an integration of the eBox, as already mentioned, and the possibility to store and exchange certificates with third parties, but also personal data and a view of those personal data. The concept of the digital portfolio means that each citizen will have access to his or her own documents and will be able to share them with other persons and/or public services if he or she so wishes. Specifically regarding the digital identity and identification services with which one can authenticate with the online services of the government, I can say the following. The basic identity documents will be made available and will be available for consultation. However, the list of documents which will be available later is not limited. It's an open model. For example, I am already consulting with a view to integrating a future digital driving licence and a digital passport. In the long term, there will also be an amendment of the legal framework, which will ensure that the digital portfolio has the same legal value as an e-ID. This means that this portfolio will also be accepted and used by, for example, the police. It goes without saying that a digital ambition of this magnitude requires the highest guarantees of information and data security. Security by Design and Privacy by Design are, of course, basic principles for the development of the digital portfolio, and are integrated from within the design, throughout the entire life cycle. Digital identity is intended to provide the same level of security as the electronic identity card. In a preliminary study, the general concepts for privacy protection and data security were validated. There is now a need for a more detailed analysis. Of course, there is also an impact analysis of the security of the personal data. Finally, the digital portfolio will also need to be regularly audited and certified according to the requirements of the e-IDAS settlement. The digital portfolio is currently in full development. The first operational version is scheduled for 2023. There will be no roll-out as such. The app will be available in the appstore and will therefore be installed and used by any citizen who wants it. The digital portfolio will, of course, be complementary to existing services and everyone will be free to use them or not. I am convinced that with the development of this digital portfolio, Belgium will make a major leap forward in digital services and in administrative simplification for our citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, when I hear your answer, I am excited. I think we should not be undermining other countries when it comes to technology. In fact, we should also be proud that we have sufficiently well-qualified IT profiles to build such applications. If we take the right steps and if the public authorities provide the right framework, then I think that we can play a leading role in this area in Europe. You can always expect my and my group to support such projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, over the past few years, Europe has focused on using e-invoicing. It is not only about the B2G, so business to government, but also about the invoicing between companies. In your policy paper, I read: "The generalisation of e-invoicing will therefore pave the way for our economic structure towards a real-time economy." However, you stated that currently only 25% of all companies use e-invoicing, while the European average is 32%. You want to "encourage the IT sector to further standardise their commercial offerings in this area." You would have an impact analysis carried out on the possible further roll-out and use of e-invoicing. What is the latest state of play regarding a general roll-out of e-invoicing between companies? What steps do you want to take? Can you give us an update on that impact analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u18	Mr Freilich, many steps have already been taken and my intention is to build on this. Since 2012, the Belgian Government has supported the widespread use of electronic invoicing, especially among SMEs and public authorities. In this context, the FOD BOSA is in charge of the mission of informing, encouraging and seeking broad support. Since 2015, he has been actively involved in the development of PEPPOL, a standardised ecosystem that allows the exchange of each structured electronic document. The success of these efforts should be highlighted. Today, no less than 50,000 Belgian companies have registered to receive these documents, which puts Belgium in third place with regard to the application of this globally standardised ecosystem. The step-by-step changeover to electronic invoicing obviously requires the necessary support of companies. For these reasons and to raise awareness about the use of electronic invoicing, the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the FOD BOSA has set up the Hermes and Mercury platforms. Thanks to the Hermes platform, each sender of invoices can use the standardized PEPPOL ecosystem under certain conditions to send its invoices to commercial partners in the Belgian public sector, which are 5,500, or in the private sector, which are 1,9 million. More than three quarters of all invoices sent to companies last year were electronic invoices. Sixty percent were sent by e-mail. The remaining 16 percent were sent via a structured electronic file. In addition, the Mercurius platform was launched in 2014 and integrated into the PEPPOL ecosystem that helps all Belgian buyers and their suppliers to take the steps towards large-scale electronic invoicing. The intention is to dematerialize the entire purchasing process. It is currently used by 2,400 contracting authorities and 15,000 suppliers, of which 6,000 senders of structured messages. It processes about 125,000 invoices per month. This brings me to the obvious advantages of using electronic invoices. For example, it has been calculated that the increase in e-invoicing in 2020 translates into a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses and individuals by around 1.5 million. This is demonstrated by measurements from the DAV's measuring station. This brings the total savings over the period 2013-2020 to 1.38 billion euros. If we go through this in the long term, a generalisation of invoices already exchanged in Belgium would lead to a productivity gain for Belgium as a whole. This would undoubtedly strengthen the Belgian competitive position. As regards the impact analysis, the DAV has conducted an annual survey on e-invoicing since 2013. Based on the results of this survey, the DAV decided in September 2020 to carry out an impact assessment of different policy options that could stimulate the use of e-invoicing. The scope of the study was determined in advance by a working group involving several stakeholders: Agoria, the Confederation of Construction, the Institute for Tax Advisors and Accountants, the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed, UNIZO, E-Invoicing of the Flemish Government, the Confederation of Belgian Enterprises and so on. In concrete terms, an online survey was conducted in January and February 2021 with 800 persons responsible for, or involved in, the accounting and invoicing in Belgian companies. Three options were proposed: firstly, a status quo; secondly, a B2G obligation, whereby companies must send their invoices to public administrations in a structured electronic version; and thirdly, a B2B and B2G obligation, whereby companies must send their invoices electronically to both public administrations and other companies. The impact analysis shows that in order to generalise the use of electronic invoicing in Belgium, a phased approach is necessary, flanked by a clear public communication. I invite you to take note of the results of the study, of which I have a copy for you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-25-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic797x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I invite you to take note of my bill on this, but perhaps you have already read it. You speak of a saving of no less than 1.38 billion euros through the use of e-invoicing. That's a huge amount of money. This would enable companies to work more efficiently and save costs, but not just that. The environment could also be much better if all these letters were no longer sent. I'm following cyber. If e-invoicing enables computers to communicate automatically with computers, for example, the interception of e-mails or the sending of phishing mails with false invoices can also be addressed. This could have a very positive impact on our companies. You say that this must be done gradually, with a phased approach and sensitisation. That is all well and good, but your government has said that it will oblige the e-Box for companies by 2025, because otherwise it would not be there. My bill to force e-invoicing, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but also in 2025, goes in the same direction. I hope we find a partner in you and in this government. Just as we can work together on the e-Box, we could also work together on e-invoicing.
