ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u1	Madam President, first of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister. This issue was placed on the agenda three or four weeks ago. Back then, I had a calendar mistake. The committee had been set at 12.30 p.m. on an exceptional basis and I came at 2.00 p.m. So I got his teams to work and I made him move around for nothing. I apologise to him. You have to be able to recognize when you're wrong. For the rest, Minister, my question is about role rights and an amendment to section 1057 of the Judicial Code that took place in 2018. It appears that in practice, especially since the beginning of this year, a number of difficulties arise, particularly in the determination of cases. In order to be fixed, the cases must be the subject of a payment of registration fees and the notice of payment of registration fees cannot be taken on initiative but must come from the FPS Finances. However, given the delay in processing FPS Finance's files, very many weeks pass before this notice is effective, registration fees are paid and the case can therefore simply be set on the agenda. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Have you discussed this with your Finance colleague in order to remedy it? What do you intend to do to make this process less burdensome and more effective? Would not automatic payment be more optimal or even a return to the previous system, which provides for payment of registry fees at the time of filing the application?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u2	Madam President, my colleague, we are talking about an amendment to section 1057 of the Judicial Code, which was passed under the previous legislature and which came into force on February 1, 2019. The decision to charge the rights of assignment at the end of the procedure was made by means of a law of October 2018. In the past, these duties were paid at the beginning of the proceedings. By removing this threshold, the goal was to make justice more accessible to all. But indeed, a number of problems related to this amendment of the law have already been reported to us. The Clerks have recently pointed out to us that, in their view, there has been a lower rate of duty collection since the coming into force of this new section. On the other hand, we have not yet been informed of any delays in setting up a hearing in specific cases. My services meet regularly with Finance to discuss how we can improve the collection of fines and fees of this type. To say that there was still a margin of progress in this area is an understatement. As you know, I attach great importance to ensuring that procedures within Justice and administration can proceed as efficiently as possible. I can tell you, my colleague, that the computer problem that had arisen has been solved in the meantime. More fundamentally, another option would be, as you suggest, to return to the previous situation, i.e. to collect duty on duty prior to the commencement of the proceedings. It is not my practice to go back to legislation adopted under the previous legislature, but I am prepared to consider this question if the Committee on Justice is to ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as the delays are concerned, I was warned during informal discussions by fellow lawyers and the Bar Association of Brussels. Sometimes several weeks after the application for appeal was filed, the opinion of the FPS Finances had still not been received because the courts and appeal courts in particular were only able to access the verification of the payment of registration fees since the beginning of this year 2022. Prior to the problem, there was no difficulty of access and the court was unable to verify; therefore, introductory hearings were scheduled. Since access is allowed, prior verification must be done. It is therefore done since it is technically and computerically possible. If they find that the fees are not paid, they cannot fix an introductory hearing. I do not know if this concerns many cases or a majority of cases, but what is certain is that delays of several weeks are occurring in some cases. I hear you have meetings. It is very good that you are open to all solutions for the sake of efficiency. I wanted to point out the problem here and find a solution for the benefit of all. Thank you for your follow-up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u4	Minister, everyone is particularly concerned about the safety and well-being of the nearly 100,000 Ukrainian children living in institutions and boarding schools, half of whom are disabled. In addition, of course, there are many Ukrainian children who may be separated from family during the flight, under many circumstances. Unfortunately, the stories on the European border are now legion. For example, Minister Kitir told us about a van with six minors who crossed the border, but which fortunately could still be stopped. We must therefore be prepared for the arrival of Ukrainian unaccompanied minors and take account of the possible exploitation associated with them. Have you got eyes on the situation yet? How many Ukrainian unaccompanied minors have been registered in Belgium in recent weeks? How many of them were accompanied by a family member who isn't a parent? How many orphans were registered? What happened to them? Where were they placed? How often did they get a guardian? Does the fact that the status of temporary protection is also provided to Ukrainian minors cause problems for the appointment of a guardian? Does that statute exclude the appointment of a guardian? Is there any need for an adjustment of the legal basis and, if so, are you preparing for it? There is great solidarity among many citizens, which is particularly good. We see this among the citizens who sign up for the campaign hashtagPlekVrij. Can the same wave of solidarity also be used for a campaign aimed at finding guardians for Ukrainian unaccompanied minors or more guardians in general? Will you surf the enthusiasm that there is about this? That doesn't seem to be a luxury given the more general lack of guardians. Will you make a specific call to the Ukrainian diaspora in Belgium? There too, a great deal of solidarity will probably be shown and, in addition, thresholds for Ukrainian unaccompanied minors will be removed if possible. Is there any possibility of a shortened screening and training path, where the guardians concerned will be assisted, for example, by a slightly more experienced guardian in order to meet the urgent needs that may arise soon? Finally, it is unclear whether there will be enough foster care places, especially in view of the potentially huge needs in the short term. Suppose that this is indeed a problem and that host families are also eligible to receive an NBMV through the campaign hashtagPlakFreedom, if they meet the necessary conditions, will you then systematically appoint a guardian for those unaccompanied minors? Independent supervision seems to be all the more necessary there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u5	As for your first question, the Voogdij Service received a total of 63 descriptions of unaccompanied minors from Ukraine until 14 March 2022. They were all accompanied and taken care of by a family member. The Voogdij Service will assign a guardian as soon as possible. No orphans have yet been identified at the Voogdijk Service. As for your second question, in 8 files, the Voogdij appointed a guardian. The Voogdij Department will appoint a guardian as a priority in cases of particularly vulnerable situations, such as teenage mothers, serious medical problems and a very young age. As far as your third question is concerned, the Voogdij Department follows the spirit of the custody law, in particular to provide for a legal representation for minors who are in Belgium without anyone exercising custody or parental authority. This is in line with the definition of unaccompanied minors in the EU acquis on asylum and migration, where a protection statute does not prevent the appointment of a guardian. Also in settlement files where one gets a residence status at the time of arrival in Belgium, guardians were appointed in the past. An amendment of the law is therefore not necessary. As far as your fourth, fifth and sixth questions are concerned, there is indeed a shortage of guardians for unaccompanied minors. The Voogdij Service conducted a recruitment campaign at the end of 2021 in which a total of 98 new voluntary and self-employed guardians were selected. The 60 new French-speaking guardians are currently following basic training and can then take custody. The new Dutch guardians have already started. For these reasons, the Voogdij Service does not for the time being take any specific action with the Ukrainian diaspora to recruit guardians. A shortened screening and training pathway is not currently under discussion, but we are looking at the possibility of increasing the capacity of current guardians and possible ex-guardians in the short term. As far as your seventh question is concerned, I heard from the cabinet of the fellow State Secretary that his services are in contact with the competent agencies at the partial level. The Voogdij will in any case assign a guardian to all unaccompanied minors. Of course I agree with you that independent supervision is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for paying attention to the problem. Can I insist that you show sufficient providence? I am, of course, pleased that you launched a campaign at the end of 2021. I can't estimate how many guardians will be needed soon. I don't know if anyone's capable of that. Honestly, it seems to me that it would be no harm to keep a targeted campaign, even though that is exclusively with the Ukrainian diaspora. It is better to start now instead of waiting for it to be too late. I would therefore ask that this suggestion be considered. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u7	Madam President, my question concerns an action group or a movement that has flown here from the United States. It is a movement that promotes white lives matter, with which they pursue a nearly one hundred percent white society. To make their message known, they also put stickers in public. In several Flemish cities those white lives matter stickers were noticed in the street statue. On these stickers is an image of an Aryan man and woman, who was also shown in Nazi propaganda in the 1930s. A QR code on those stickers refers to a Telegram group of the Flemish department, which would have 130 members, including Carrera Neefs, city council member in Wuustwezel. This group actively shares racist messages and organises actions. The objective of this action group is, of course, reprehensible, but it may also be a criminal offence. History has taught us that attempts to establish a monoethnic state lead to genocidal violence. The vile stickers in the street scene feel extremely threatening to many people. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Are you aware of the existence of that Flemish department of the white lives matter action group? Are there currently legal proceedings against this action group? How can action be taken against action groups in favour of an exclusive white society?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, such action groups are indeed not entirely new. They are also followed by our intelligence, security and police services. The attraction of such groups to young people has indeed grown in recent years, also due to the corona crisis, although the phenomenon is currently occurring in the margins and essentially virtual. This is mainly a phenomenon of young men, some of whom are also underage. We do see recently that they are also becoming active in physical public space, including by sticking stickers, a tactic that is also used by left-wing extremists, anti-vaxers and other activists. Our services are aware of the existence of a department of that action group in Flanders, but at the moment it is not really a structured organisation. Of course, the State Security is following developments within this action group well. Then there's your question about the current lawsuit. If you mean whether there are civil or criminal proceedings, then the answer is negative at the moment. I can tell you that the Action Group has already been the subject of information exchange between the partners of the Strategy Extremism and Terrorism, the former Plan R, and that, as has already been said, the various security partners are aware of the phenomenon. As far as your third question is concerned, our intelligence and security services are looking at such phenomena at first, each from his or her jurisdiction. State Security from the threat to the security of our country and the police forces from the administrative threats. In addition, the services of course also exchange information, as I said, within Strategy TER, the successor to Plan R. When criminal offences are identified, the judicial authorities will, of course, be informed so that they can take legal action if necessary. Apart from that, it is also examined whether the members of the action group meet to be included in the famous GGB, i.e. the Common Database, either as a hate propaganda or as a potentially violent extremist. If that is the case, it will of course lead to a structured follow-up of these persons by the various security partners and, where appropriate, action can also be taken. I would also like to point out that Belgian legislation makes it possible to prosecute acts of discrimination, racism and hate crimes on the basis of the various articles in the Criminal Code and a whole series of laws. With regard to those who advocate an exclusive white society, I do say that the following legal provisions may apply, inter alia. Firstly, the 2007 anti-discrimination law. Secondly, the 1981 law, the famous anti-racism law. Thirdly, pursuant to Article 35 of the Criminal Code, the Public Prosecutor may request the dissolution of legal persons who have been created in the first instance to commit criminal offences. Fourthly, Article 405quater of the Criminal Code deals with punishments involving crimes or malpractices consisting of hatred against or disrespecting or hostility against a person because of his race, colour, origin, descent or nationality. In other words, our arsenal of legislation is sufficient to act if there are criminal infringements. In a democracy, freedom of expression is and remains a crucial starting point. There is therefore much to be said, even if we do not agree with it. However, the limits of this freedom of expression are listed in our national legislation. Apart from the criminal context and possible prosecution, I do share the concern about such groups. Whether they are right-wing extremist, left-wing extremist or jihadist, we see the same way of doing things: polarizing, thinking in terms of "we versus them' where eagerly using conspiracy theories to exclude the group "she's who that may be and dehumanize at some point. History, including the recent one, has shown us enough of what that can lead to. So vigilance is imperative and we cannot laugh away as being innocent or clowny behavior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u9	It is clear that you too are concerned about this, Minister. If you say that the attractiveness of such groups is increasing, including among young people, this is a good reason to remain vigilant. However, I have heard you say that this will certainly be followed up in the framework of Plan R and other initiatives. Everyone is indeed free to express their opinion, as long as the message is not punishable and is not contrary to our laws. Persons who advocate an exclusive white society, who violate the anti-discrimination and anti-racism law. I therefore believe that it is important to remain vigilant that this message does not jeopardise living together in our various societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u10	Minister, I also asked Minister Verlinden this question last week. Pano's report on the rape drugs revealed a major discrepancy between victims who end up in a care centre, which works very well, and victims who end up in a hospital. In the first group a sample sample is taken immediately and the victim is given another six months to file a complaint. However, the second group must first file a complaint with the police before a sample can be taken. In the reportage, the victim had to cycle to the police at 2 a.m. to file a complaint and then go back to the hospital after which the rod take-off could happen. We know that care centres will be expanded, but in practice, victims will still end up in a hospital that is not linked to a care centre. I asked Minister Verlinden if it was not possible for the police to go to the hospital, to get the complaint to act there and to do victim treatment. I also asked why there was a difference in the procedure between the sampling in a care centre and that in a hospital. On both matters, Minister Verlinden was very enthusiastic, but she said that they should be instructed by the prosecution. That is why I am asking you the question this week. How do you feel about that? The minister also found the sexism patrols that already exist in different cities an interesting slope. A cop dresses in plainclothes. If she's being harassed, the perpetrators can be apprehended. Can't something like this happen in the nightlife, where a drink is used as a decoy? That way, those evil people can be removed from the nightlife.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u11	Mrs Bury, spiking will be discussed in plenary tomorrow. Spiking will give rise to an aggravated crime if the unsub makes the victim defenseless through certain substances. The penalty will be increased to 15 to 20 years in the case of rape. What you mention in your question about care centres is precisely why we have set up care centres. We note that the numbers of registrations by victims are constantly increasing. Two weeks ago, the sixth care center of our country was established in Roeselare. The coordinator of the care centre expects this year another 200 reports of sexual abuse, 400 notifications next year and 800 notifications in 2024. As you said, care centers are very good at catching people. In addition, it is still possible and allowed for the police to go to a hospital. For the sake of clarity, no instructions are required from the prosecution. This is part of the existing rules on police victim treatment. A victim who does not go to a care centre must also be treated with due attention and respect. As I said, there is no need for instructions from the prosecution, it is a basic function of the police. I'll provide you with all the rules regarding that police victim treatment in writing. Thirdly, you asked me if I am aware of the difference. This is, of course, due to the particular task assigned to the care centres. The pilot projects were scientifically researched by a team of researchers from Ghent University, under the guidance of the National Steering Committee and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. Several members of the local and federal police, magistrates and officials of the FPS Justice are active in the steering committee. In view of the very positive evaluation of these pilot projects, the federal government has approved the creation of a total of 10 new care centres by 2024. The goal is that every victim in our country can find a care center within the hour. The establishment of the healthcare centres integrated into a hospital will take some time, so we will still have to work at two speeds in 2022 and 2023. In the National Action Plan Gender-related Violence, the commitment has also been made to work on the legal anchoring of care centres. As a result, the operation of the care centres throughout Belgium will become the rule and only in exceptional cases will the steel collections and the procedures laid down in the circular COL 04/2017 concerning the set of sexual aggression be used. I find your last question remarkable and interesting, but do you realize that by asking this question you actually support the existing sexism law? The sexism law was passed in 2014 and it was also strongly criticised by certain parties, both in committee and in plenary. If a white person is convicted on the basis of the sexism law, this is supposedly a violation of freedom of expression. Here, however, you yourself say that it is a good thing that there are patrols against sexism, such as here in Brussels. You're right, but then perhaps it's time you urged your party to endorse the sexism law. However, it does not make sense for you to support the sexism law when it is used to act against migrants in Brussels, but that you are against this law when it is used against white people. These are the two dimensions and weights that are unfortunately often used in this House. Nevertheless, I support your action and your question. I believe that these are indeed good practices, which we want to work harder on. Moreover, as part of the National Action Plan to combat gender-based violence and in the context of the work of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights, we have included the commitment to send an awareness-raising message to all police areas and public prosecutors to take initiatives. That kind of intimidation on the streets is a fundamental problem in our country. I'm sorry, but that doesn't belong to freedom of speech. Sharing and disseminating good practice to police areas is indeed a good initiative that can contribute to a better fight against such phenomena. With regard to your question as to whether this is also applicable in the nightlife, I have heard that very specific initiatives have been taken in Brussels and Ghent, I would like to say that this type of task must be carried out in the light of an analysis of the environment and the specific needs. This may involve special supervision, such as sexism patrols, general supervision or reactive action. It is particularly important that police teams are well aware of the legal framework on street harassment and sexism in order to be able to react appropriately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u12	Minister, as far as spiking is concerned, the programme said that it is easy to make by using antifreeze, a few drops will suffice. Such products will therefore be increasingly used. As far as the police are concerned, I am being sent here somewhat from the cabinet to the wall. Minister Verlinden said that they need instructions for this and you say that they can go to the hospital now too. In practice, however, we always see in certain hospitals that there is no communication about this. There will be no communication from you either. It is also possible to raise the awareness of police or public prosecutors. Minister Verlinden doesn't do that either. Those victims may drive their bikes to the police station. You're saying it's not true, that the police can come to the hospital and that you don't have to do anything for that. With regard to that steel take-off and the COL 04/2017 to which you referred, you say that this only happens in exceptional cases. So I understand that you're saying it can only be done in a care centre, since that's their specific function, but you're not changing it for the hospitals. There's got to be a complaint there first and then a sample extraction. I think even beyond the hospitals. If one experiences such a thing and wakes up in the morning, with the general practitioner around the corner, it must also be possible to do so immediately. He should not say that one should go to the police first, because unfortunately one is not in a care centre and so it cannot be turned around. That needs to be looked at, so this can be done anywhere. From day one, I'm a big supporter of those sexism patrols. You know, you say this is an interesting slope, in combination with the analyzers. Mrs Schlitz said there's a big problem in the entertainment district in Louvain-la-Neuve. That really needs to be looked at, not on the street, but in the cafés after midnight, to see who's doing what in each other's drinks. I'll follow up, see if you'll take any further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55025963C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u14	Mr Minister, you have just begun with hope: we do not want double standards and two weights. That is an excellent starting point. In the margins of the Ukraine conflict, Facebook and Instagram have suddenly changed their policies. They have announced that they are now allowing messages calling for someone's death, which is a call for violence that is normally forbidden, when it comes to Putin or Lukashenko. This was confirmed by the parent company Meta. In a statement, the American company also indicated that, in addition to Russian soldiers, all Russians may be attacked, until they are threatened with death, as long as this happens in the context of the Russian invasion. That is a striking change of course. Minister, have you taken note of Meta's decision to change normal policy? How do you feel about the temporary adaptation of the rules? Have you or the government contacted Meta, either directly or through the European Commission, about the motivation to do so? In a communication accompanying the plan to turn hate speech into a European cross-border crime, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that no one should tolerate hatred. Are there times when hate speech is accepted? Which criteria should be met? Do you believe that in certain cases hate speech should be acceptable and legal? Do you think that inciting Putin to hate should be prosecuted? I think that is an interesting situation in the context of the policy you are happy to announce on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u15	Criminal hate speech is criminal hate speech, regardless of the context in which that hate speech is made. The context is not a constituent element of the crime in question. That's how it should be, no matter how disgusting and hideous that context may be. I hope you and your party feel the same way. Like you, I've heard that information through the press. I have also taken note of the statement made by Meta through Mr Clegg, President of the Global Affairs Service: "To be clear, we are only going to apply this policy in Ukraine itself. We have no quarter with the Russian people. There is no change at all in our policies on hate speech as far as the Russian people are concerned. We will not tolerate Russophobia or any kind of discrimination,harassment or violence towards Russians on our platform. ' This is about the internal policy of a private actor, namely Meta. This internal policy cannot change criminal law at EU level or at national level. That means that someone who makes such a statement through Meta may be punishable. What would be the accessory of such a platform is another question. The European Court of Human Rights has at a certain point in a judgment ruled that there may be an accessory to a platform such as this one. There's been a lot of fuss about that, too. This is also the subject of the DSA or the Digital Services Act, which you have already asked me about. That Act sets out how to handle those kinds of platforms. I understand that the Commission has not yet officially communicated the decision of Meta. At the moment, however, lines to take are being worked out by DIGICONNECT. They will be published in the near future. At EU level, there is already a Framework Decision of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. They have not been fully transposed into our national law. We're still making some adjustments. Furthermore, in December, the European Commission took an initiative to extend that list of crimes to include hate speech and hate crimes. You also asked a question about this. This addition was discussed at the informal Council in Lille a few weeks ago. Almost all countries were in favour of this. Hungary and Poland would also be in favour of this. That's a first step. In the second phase, the binding minimum standards on definition and punishment should be laid down. On that informal council, I also said that the definition of hate speech should be the definition we use in our laws. In other words, the mere hatred of people cannot be punishable, but inciting hatred, violence or discrimination is. I would like to remind you that debating the war is something completely different from spreading hate messages about Russian nationality. It is a matter of freedom of expression to form an idea about the war, the circumstances, and to express them, but it must be distinguished from inciting hatred, inciting discrimination or inciting violence on the basis of protected criteria such as nationality. Calling for the murder of all Russians seems to be seen as inciting hatred and violence based on ethnic origin or nationality. Hate speech has rightly been punishable by several international treaties and legal instruments, on which you have also asked me an interesting written question, to which I note that you are following up on the subject. You have also seen, as regards the case law, that several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have emphasised that freedom of expression is not absolute, that limits can be set, inter alia, in the provisions on inciting hatred, violence or discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u16	Mr Minister, I have, of course, deliberately used the example to show how dangerous this area is. You say that the legislation is out of context, and that is how it is supposed to apply to legislation, but that means in practice that, for example, Eastern Ukrainian refugees who express their understandable frustrations with what is happening, risk going beyond what is tolerated. I asked you how you feel about someone who, for example, encourages hatred of Putin and the like. You have reacted a little bit inflamed, but it is not clear from today's circumstances that hatred, let alone inciting hatred, is by definition always reprehensible. There may be objective reasons for this, which is also entirely outside the empathy of situations if they were placed under a strict regime. You say that most countries are quite open to promoting hate speech to a cross-border crime. You mentioned Hungary and Poland. I would expect countries in the European Union that are more liberally-minded to be counterweight there. I am not counting on Poland or Hungary to defend freedom of expression for the sake of clarity. You also refer to the ruling of the European Court of Justice and will agree with me that the accessory of the platform on which a communication is made at least to our constitutional principle that the publisher is not liable until the author is not known. That is a fine principle that has been put forward and which has regularly allowed our country to hold dissident opinions in the 19th century and publishers to have the courage to spend things that may have exceeded the consensus of that moment. We must learn from the current circumstances that it is extremely dangerous to create the impression, without context, that inciting hatred must in any case give rise to persecution. The restriction of freedom of expression is, of course, logical, but in this limitation we must be very restrictive, hence my attention to this issue and hence I hope to meet you, as a liberal party, once again as an ally in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u17	Minister, I apologize to you and to my colleague because we are not only conducting hearings for the Clerk in the P and R Committees, but there are also other Defence and External Relations committees. Holding three commissions at the same time is a real challenge. Several articles highlighted the departure of Belgians wishing to fight in Ukraine. These voluntary departures raise many questions. There is also talk of actions on the return of these Belgians directly and militarily participating in this conflict. The Minister of Defence stressed that she did not advise Belgians to take up arms in order to fight for Ukraine. She stressed that there were other ways to help the country. Can you let us know the government's position on the departure of Belgian citizens? Two soldiers, including a deserter, have left for Ukraine. Do we have any information on the number or even profile of Belgians leaving for Ukraine? Are any measures taken in relation to such departures? Will the Government take any measures, in particular on the basis of the Act of 1 August 1979 concerning services in a foreign army or group located in the territory of a foreign State? On the other hand, are you aware of the departure of Belgian citizens for the purpose of enlisting in the Russian armed forces or associated armed groups? This could happen. Are Belgian actions in this conflict monitored by our services and by what means? What about their return to Belgian territory? Is an investigation conducted by our intelligence services and the OCAM? If you can't answer, don't. I have security clearances, either. Will any steps be taken by the government to monitor and sanction the possible non-compliance of Belgian citizens involved in the conflict with international humanitarian law?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u18	My colleague, on your first question, the National Security Council met with the security services. I was there. The position is that voluntary candidates are strongly advised not to join the Ukrainian armed forces and the international legion for the territorial defence of Ukraine. Because the war is unpredictable, volunteers are at high risk of being injured or killed in the fighting. Candidates must also understand that they sign a contract that engages them and that they cannot leave the Ukrainian army at their own discretion. In this context, it is difficult, if not impossible, for our country to provide assistance when needed. Moreover, the possibility of volunteers being involved in war crimes for which they can be prosecuted and severely traumatized cannot be ruled out. Finally, given the complexity of the terrain in Ukraine and the dynamic context, it is not easy for volunteers to discern the ideological tendencies and activities of all groups operating on the ground. Some groups act almost independently and have an extremist character. With regard to your second question, at present the security services are aware of about 90 people showing some interest in leaving for Ukraine. For only a few of them, it could be confirmed that they were actually parties. Many expressions of this interest are expressed on social networks, without it being always easy to assess whether this is a real intention. As far as potential candidates are concerned, it is still too early to draw up an ideological portrait or profile. Some potential candidates were known because of their links to ideological extremism, but most individuals were not. The follow-up of potential candidates at the outset will be carried out within the framework of the strategy against terrorism and extremism, including against the radicalisation process (TER Strategy) and the existing consultation platforms are used to ensure that, as soon as there are indications of extremist or terrorist aspects, Belgian partners within the appropriate structure, therefore the TER Strategy, can take the necessary steps. In the context of the situation in Ukraine, State Security is also in contact with various international partners in Ukrainian services. At the moment, there is no common position within the European Union or NATO on this matter. As far as your third question is concerned, it cannot be excluded in the long term, but we have not received any information on it at this time. With regard to your fourth question, the Public Prosecutor's Office has, of course, examined this issue and has concluded that, in the current state of affairs and in the light of the legislation in force, the departure of these volunteers to join the Ukrainian army does not in itself constitute an offence, not even under the Belgian law on mercenaries. 15 days ago, I focused on this subject following a question raised by your colleague, Mrs Marghem. To answer your fifth question, the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) closely monitors the impact in Belgium of developments in Ukraine. One of these aspects is the potential flow of departures from Belgium to join one of the warring parties. Although joining a foreign regular army is not punishable as such, the SGRS is proactively following this development, in order to manage the return of these people appropriately through follow-up via local task forces (LTF). The platforms and partners present in the TER Strategy are used optimally for this purpose. With regard to your sixth and final question, if war crimes are committed by Belgians during the conflict, they can be prosecuted under the existing legal framework. Even in times of war, the rules apply. When Belgians commit serious violations of international humanitarian law, they are punishable under articles 136bis et seq. of our Penal Code. On 2 March, together with, inter alia, the other Member States of the European Union, Belgium requested referral to the International Criminal Court (ICC) on the situation in Ukraine. The great advantage of a referral under Article 14 of the Rome Convention is that it allows the prosecutor to open an investigation without having to wait for the authorization of the Pre-Trial Chamber. The ICC prosecutor can therefore already collect evidence of possible war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocides, also if committed by Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u19	Minister, thank you for this clear, comprehensive and unambiguous answer. I note that the number is greater than the number we are talking about at the moment. A potential of 90 people is not nothing. I regret that there is not yet a coordinated European attitude to this kind of situation. Information on management in the event of return is also important. Perhaps the government should inform the public. Even in the event of war, we can't do anything. Madam President, thank you for your flexibility in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u20	Minister, last Sunday evening there was a serious aggression incident in Bruges prison. An inmate attacked a female guard with a stab gun when she opened the cell door and hit her in the neck. The impact of these facts is considerable, but the injuries of the victim could be dealt with locally, according to the spokeswoman of the prison system. I think that guard was very lucky. It could have ended quite differently. I hope she's doing better in the meantime. What worries me is that the perpetrator stayed in the closed section of Bruges prison after he allegedly had already caused serious problems in Root's prison and was therefore transferred to Bruges. There even the C.O.B.R.A. team of the Bruges police had to be called to transfer him to a special security cell. According to information published in the media yesterday, this is a dangerous man, who is not ready for his test piece: in seven months he has already struck four times out of nothing aggressively. According to the media, he has already stayed in the prisons of Root, Turnhout and Antwerp and had to be transferred each time. The prison staff rightly asks the question: how could this happen? After all, that staff wants to be able to stay safely within the prison walls. Could you give me a little more explanation? What kind of stabbing weapon are we talking about? Are such prisoners, who have repeatedly caused problems, being extra guarded? How did he get that stab wound? Are there any additional controls when such difficult detainees receive visit? Thirdly, what initiatives have been taken to accompany the victim and the other guards? Should special measures be taken to ensure the safety of the guards and prison staff in Bruges prison? Finally, we all agree that aggression against guards is unacceptable and needs to be tackled strongly. Can you confirm that the unsub will be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u21	Mrs Dillen, the prisoner in question tried to stab a guard in the neck with a table knife when opening the cell door, but the quick and adequate response of the guard and her colleagues avoided further escalation, so that the prisoner caused a superficial injury. The only object found so far at the scene of the facts is the table knife used by the prisoner to attack the staff member. This knife wasn't cut extra. All prisoners are checked before and after visits for metal objects by means of metal detection. It is true that the prisoner in question was involved in incidents in the past, but his behaviour in Bruges prison was correct until the time of the incident and there were no significant problems. However, the person concerned was subject to a safety regime as a result of the incidents in the previous establishments. It is a regime in which, in consultation with the medical partners, there are more opportunities for those concerned, depending on the evolution of their behaviour and condition. The basic law regulates the way in which a security regime can and may be imposed. The table knife with which he wounded the staff member was part of the cutlery used as standard on the cell. An internal analysis of the incident is ongoing. The victim was given the necessary care by the medical service of the facility. She was assisted by management and colleagues and the care team also took care of them. Despite no need for hospitalisation and no serious physical injuries, the victim is closely monitored. The emotional impact of such an incident should not be underestimated. An organisation shall take the necessary steps. Any member of staff who has been closely or remotely involved in the incident may be accompanied by the reception team if it so wishes. Finally, the courts are aware of the facts and do what is necessary. These facts are added to the ongoing investigation for attempted murder in Root.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you confirm that the emotional impact, not only for the victim, but also for the other staff who are involved from afar or close to it, is absolutely not to be underestimated. I think we all agree on that, by the way. I am pleased to hear that the necessary guidance will be provided there. You said it was a table knife that was standard in the cell. So it was not brought in from the outside, but I still have the question whether the visit of such detainees is subject to additional checks. Will the prisoners receive an extra check when they return to their cells after the visit? I have one last question, but I don't know if you can answer it. You say that there were apparently no comments about the behaviour of that man in Bruges prison, but he already has a past in Root, Turnhout and Antwerp. How long has that man been staying in Bruges? Was he only there for a few weeks or months, so he couldn't have shown what his true nature was, what he apparently did in Root, Turnhout and Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u23	Minister, in the media we heard that about 6,000 people wrongly got a traffic ticket in their mailbox. Apparently, the cause is an error in the justice system. The digitalization of the Justice Department isn't gonna be easy. Such errors, which receive a lot of media attention, do not promote the reputation of the digitisation process of Justice. In addition, there is a risk that citizens will lose confidence in the use of the eBox, the so-called secure electronic mailbox of the government. Can you give us a more detailed explanation? What exactly is the cause of this problem? During what period of time did the computer system not work properly? When and how did this error come to light? How many files are we talking about, exactly? What initiatives have you taken to correct this error? Can you guarantee that all wrongly paid fines have been repaid or will be repaid? Finally, what will you do to ensure that such mistakes will not occur in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u24	Mrs Dillen, these are 5,770 citizens who had committed a traffic offence, but who, due to a system problem, were given a misaddressed traffic offence in their eBox. These citizens have also been sent the correct offence by post. The traffic fines and related minutes have been properly received by the police and processed by the Justice Department. These files were then supplied to the supplier for printing and sending to citizens, both on paper and via the eBox for citizens who have activated the eBox. On Tuesday 8 March, a large volume of traffic fines had to be printed and shipped, as the traffic fines of Friday 4 March and those of the following weekend had to be processed together due to exceptional circumstances. As a result, volumes were larger than normal and due to a human encryption error in the supplier's software, a number of traffic fines were indeed sent to a wrong eBox. The PVs and payment orders that were sent digitally are therefore misaddressed in a number of cases, causing them to be delivered in a wrong eBox. The error lies therefore in the addressing of the digital envelope by the external supplier. As a result, a limited number of of of offenders in their eBox received the PV and the payment order from someone else. Your second question, then. The incident occurred when the traffic fines were processed from Friday 4 to 7 March, which then ended up in the citizen's eBox on Tuesday 8 March. On 9 March the incident was reported and the shipment of the traffic fines was temporarily stopped. The cause of the incident was found out on 10 March, which enabled the affected citizens to be informed on 11 March. Your third question. The incident came to light on Wednesday 9 March after a civilian contacted our contact center. The operational services work together with the contact centre and all abnormalities were immediately reported and monitored. This allowed the problem to be detected within 24 hours, and in less than 72 hours the citizen was informed in a transparent manner via the eBox. This means that the error was noted and reported to the parties concerned before it was mentioned in the press. The parties concerned were thus informed as quickly as possible. You're asking about exactly how many files we're dealing with. A total of 141,000 traffic fines were processed on that day, quite a lot. Of these, 32,475 documents were sent to the eBox. Quite a few people have clearly already activated their eBox. 5.770 received a wrongly addressed traffic fine. 4 per cent of the offenders have thus been affected by the system problems. After reporting the incident, we temporarily paused printing and sending further fines. A team has been assigned immediately to map the software problem, work out a solution, and test everything in detail before starting production again. The police and the public prosecutor were informed of the incident. The Data Protection Authority has also been reported. On the night of Friday on Saturday, a communication was sent to those involved via the eBox to inform them that they might have received a wrongly addressed PV, but that they would still receive a correct paper version at home as a basis for payment. In the database 5.770 documents marked for further follow-up. In answer to your sixth question, of course, they will all be repaid. We are following a certain procedure to ensure that all undue fines are repaid as soon as possible. So far we have received 50 calls about this, of which 13 people informed us to pay the wrong fine. Finally, your last question. Particular attention will be paid to testing new software and handling large volumes to avoid such incidents at all times. An adjustment has already been made to the system in order to be able to process larger volumes efficiently. We're taking the necessary lessons from this. I would like to remind you, however, that every year around five million traffic fines are correctly sent through the system in our country. Correct therefore means that as many as 99,9988 % of all fines are sent correctly. I recognize, of course, the mistake that has happened. However, compared to the daily amount of correctly sent fines, the Crossborder system appears to function very well, and as much as 94% of the fines are paid very quickly. If Justice works like the Crossborder system and only the incidents you referred to occur there, then we talked about a completely different Justice. But I'm sure you know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u25	Minister, I'm glad you said it. I am pleased that everything has been corrected immediately, even before it has appeared in the media. My question was made on the basis of the statement made by the lady who appeared in the media. In the media coverage it seemed as if fines had been sent to people who had not committed an offence, while I can tell from your reply that they were wrong addresses, but that the traffic offences were indeed committed. Thank you for your answer and for the speedy response of the Justice Department. I have said in the past that the Crossborder system is working well. I would like the penalty penalties to be followed equally well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u26	Minister, in February 2022, the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium presented its renewal plan to you. More recently, you informed us that you have initiated the procedure for withdrawing the recognition of the executive. In a letter dated 18 February 2022, you would have given the executive the opportunity to respond to the imminent withdrawal of the recognition. The withdrawal of recognition would mean that the role of the executive would fall. You stated in the press that this would create an intermediate phase and thus provide an opportunity for the creation of a new representative body representing the Belgian Muslim community. In the meantime, the possible withdrawal of recognition also has less obvious consequences. It leads to continuity and causes a legal gap for Muslims in the country. Neither the executive nor any other body will be able to recognise imams, to participate in the recognition of mosques or to participate in the further organization of a Belgian imam training programme, in so far as it could be re-established. I have a number of questions, in the interests of continuity, because no religious communities have been recognised in Flanders for about eight years now. The Executive of the Muslims of Belgium is confronted internally with language barriers. In that context, has the solution of Article 1, third paragraph of the Royal Decree of 15 February 2016 been discussed again with the executive? How do you see the withdrawal procedure? What period has the execution been given to respond to your letter? What is the timing of the whole procedure? What steps will you take to install a contact point representative of the Belgian Muslim community in the interim? We understand from the press that there might be a conciliation. Is that indeed the case? Finally, you assume that a new body will be set up to replace the executive if recognition is withdrawn. How do you contribute to the promotion of this initiative? At what time can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u27	Mr President, you are well aware of the dossier and I do not need to repeat to you that I did not go over the night in my policy on this matter. I can no longer accept that the executive with its operation today is leading the Muslim community in our country on a leash. As far as your first question is concerned, the executive is well aware that the principle of language chambers is an important aspect. She also states that in her evaluation report, which you read. The principle of language chambers was also discussed on my question at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 14 December last year. As for your second question, after receiving my letter, the executive had two weeks to ask to be heard. It made use of that possibility. A first appointment was made before March 15, yesterday, but the counsel of the executive informed us not to be available on that date. A new appointment was scheduled for March 23rd this year. The exercise of the right to hear is a next step. You will understand that I do not want to anticipate the next steps, which does not mean that my intentions are clear and clear. On your third question, including in that regard, in the light of the current legal procedure, I must reticent myself in my statements, which does not mean that I understand your question and that your underlying concern is also mine. I'll do everything I can to ensure the temporals. That is all I can explain at the moment. Finally, of course, such an initiative must come from the Muslim community itself. I have received encouraging signals from that community in our country over the past few days. There's talk. Taking into account the freedom of religion in our country, I naturally support such initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u28	Thank you, Minister. I understand that you must be careful in your reply and understand that, but I would like to make my concern clear once again. I was Minister of Justice for six years. During those six years, the Flemish Government has not recognized any community of faith. During that period enormous efforts were made to ensure the security of the faith communities. In the meantime, the Flemish Government, for which you, of course, have no responsibility, but which fortunately wants a party colleague of yours to have the authority for the religious communities, has adopted a decree to change the way in which the religious communities are recognised. In the meantime, you are responsible for the services of honor in the federal aspects, including the payment of the servants of the honor service recognized by the representative bodies. My concern is that the current standstill of soon nine years will also put an end to the entire channeling of religious communities through federal subsidies to the ministers and regional subsidies to the religious communities. Tomorrow, these religious communities can be accused of being subsidised by foreign countries, while in the meantime, because they are not recognised, they are not subsidised by the Belgian or Flemish level. I have always believed that the way in which we dealt with it allowed us to manage the less peaceful aspects of certain services at certain times in history. In that sense, I realise how difficult the competence is, both in Flanders and at the federal level.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Two years will be over in no time. I therefore hope for a solution before the end of the legislature, both at Flemish and federal level. The Belgian legislature has divided the powers of worship in a very unfortunate way; it can hardly be more unfortunate. Each level has the ability to manifest in its own way, when needed. Fortunately, it seems to me that the jurisdiction now falls to you and your partymate, although I apologize for pressing it. I hope that before the end of this legislature you will succeed together in bringing the matter to a successful conclusion, because I believe that this is very important for the services of honour in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u29	Mr Nones, the last word is, of course, for Parliament, but allow me to say briefly that it is absolutely my ambition to restart procedures for the recognition of religious communities. The discussions we are currently having should not prevent us from doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u30	Minister, I do not want to ask you how that will happen; I assume that continuity will be guaranteed. I would like to point out that, in the previous legislature, we managed to create a safety circular with all the competent ministers, with a good safety advice from the federal government. I understand that the Flemish Government is now doing so itself. I hope that in the end all the resources that were made available for the recognition of imams will be able to obtain a favourable destination. If we want to avoid foreign preachers, we have to pay domestic preachers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u31	Minister, in order to strengthen the autonomy and well-being of vulnerable adults, I asked you a year ago about the remaining and important yards concerning the remuneration and framework of professional directors. For this purpose, I referred to the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice published in July 2019, which indicated that the control of the regimes is not always high quality and made several recommendations to the legislator. A preliminary draft laying down the conditions for acting as a professional director provides a framework by setting up a federal executive committee and creating a register of recognised directors, so that the judge can always appoint the most appointed director, stood in the scaffolding. In addition, a Royal Decree implementing Article 497/5 of the old Civil Code was also drawn up with a view to ensuring a transparent and uniform regime for the remuneration of directors. Minister, you replied to me that, although it was not included in the government agreement, you would present a first state of affairs to the government in June 2021, after which further steps could be taken. What progress has been made with the RB, which should provide for a uniform cost regime, in particular for professional directors? What progress has been made with the creation of a federal executive committee for professional directors and the announced accreditation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u32	Following on from your question of 19 April 2021, Mr Geens, I can answer you as follows. A limited working group was set up of the actors directly involved in the reform and people from academia to develop a legal framework for the professional directors. On the basis of the conclusions of that working group, a draft law is currently being drawn up and will be submitted to the government in the coming summer. At the end of last year, we asked for opinions from the various actors on a draft royal decision on the remuneration of directors. These opinions are currently being analysed and the working party will then draw up an amended draft Royal Decree, which is due to enter into force this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u34	Minister, this morning the Security Strategy was presented to the Committee on Home Affairs in the presence of the Prime Minister. You will not be surprised that I drew attention to the fight against trafficking in human beings. I understand that the absence of that term in the document meant that I could not derive anything from it. I have once again called on the Prime Minister to bring all Belgian services that come into contact with Ukrainian refugees into a supreme state of vigilance and preparedness in order to detect all signs of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Although I expected more from some of your fellow ministers, I was particularly pleased with the signal you gave me last week. We had then put forward the proposal with Vooruit to launch a awareness campaign, so that we will soon be able to disseminate all useful information on labour rights and the fight against trafficking in human beings through appropriate channels within the Ukrainian community. You have taken full account of this and I would like to thank you once again, as well as anyone who cooperates in it, because that action will make a big difference. What is the status of this project? This will give rise to a stream of new information, especially if all colleagues are also put in a prime state of preparedness. What happens to all this information? Is there going to be a structure to centralize it and get on with it? There are now three specialised centres for victims of trafficking, each with its own telephone number. Will a single central notification point be provided for the sake of clarity and overview? What kind of back office does this include to effectively use this information and, for example, to roll up networks? Can such a central entry point also constitute the embryo for a system in which police, aid workers and citizens can report all potential situations of trafficking in human beings? Tomorrow the draft sexual criminal law will also be before us, including the legal basis for the advertising platforms. It would be great if we could put a button linking to that central login point on such an advertising platform in the future. I see plenty of possibilities there. What will happen to exploitation situations that are just not covered by human trafficking? Are they also included in the scope of the awareness campaign, are they also called upon to pass it on to the central hotline and will your back office work on it? Will you also contact, or have you already contacted, an organisation such as Fairwork (or similar organisations) and inspection services such as ECOSOC of the RSZ? Will you eventually involve the Flemish regional services, for example the VDAB, in the awareness campaign? As far as I am concerned, a team should be set up within the VDAB, for example, with Ukrainian speakers who can take on the job placement. Then you can link to your central hotline again. Last week I already suggested in my reply to you that in the meantime it will probably take a while before this is all set up to distribute that existing leaflet related to trafficking in human beings to the Ukrainians who register, for example at the registration centre, the Klein Kastiltje and as far as possible in cities and municipalities. I don't know if that leaflet is already available in the right languages. What's the status there? Which cases of exploitation and trafficking in human beings have already been identified on our territory? Finally, how is everyone within Justice, the public prosecutors and the FGP currently being put in a position of increased vigilance to detect signs of exploitation and trafficking in human beings? For example, are there any reminders of existing directives? What are the reference magistrates doing? Are there any consultations where attention is drawn to the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u35	Mr Segers, as far as your first question is concerned, as we speak, we are working on it, just like the same services, but also other services, are involved in the massive operation to properly register and receive Ukrainian refugees in our country. First of all, I would like to point out that the situation of Ukrainian refugees requires urgent action. However, in the case of trafficking in human beings, it is primarily a matter of preventive action. Asylum management should not be confused with trafficking in human beings. In the short or medium term, in particular, there is a risk that some people will try to abuse the precarious situation of refugees in order to exploit them. At this stage we are not yet aware of these situations, but the instruments must be put in place to avoid them. The first version of the foreseen sensitisation will be shared in the near future through Facebook, Telegram and WhatsApp groups, which together account for about ten thousand refugees. A meeting of the Task Force with the addition of a number of players will meet again next week for an initial evaluation and to provide an adjustment of the post if necessary. My answer to the first part of your second question is as follows. I set up a task force at the level of justice. It consists of the reception centres, the federal prosecutor's office, the presidency of the anti-trafficking agency and the federal police. Depending on future developments, other actors will be invited. Information can be exchanged within this structure. In addition, the inter-departmental coordination cell office will meet to ensure communication and exchange on ongoing initiatives. In the first instance, the contact details of the three centres will be included as first contact points for assistance and support, such as the Central Trafficking Service. Both the FGP and the federal prosecutor are part of the task force to set out a clear clear line on police and legal succession. For more general information, please refer to the website info-ukraine.be. I will now answer the second part of your second question. Apart from the Ukraine crisis, in my question, one central hotline for victims of trafficking in human beings has already been examined by the three centres. However, that is not yet finished. That is why they still work with the three songs of the three centers for the time being. The three centres are always available 24 to 24 and implement the necessary protective measures. There is no reason to think otherwise, but we need to ensure that information on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings is properly disseminated. I would remind you that the reference system for victims of trafficking in human beings is organised by the Law of 15 December 1980 and the Circular of December 2016. The answer to the third part of your second question is as follows. The circular criminal law policy COL.01/2015 applies here, as well as the 2016 circular I just mentioned. If the prosecution is informed of a possible situation of trafficking in human beings, it will open a file. If a potential victim is first referred to a reception centre, the centre will apply the definition of that 2016 circular. They will therefore inform the authorities as soon as possible with the consent of the victim. The fourth part of your second question is indeed the design of the federal hotline. But even today, everyone can report a case of possible trafficking in human beings to one of the three centres. Then the answer to the fifth part of your second question. Any possible exploitation situation will be reported to the centres. Further investigation by the competent services will then determine whether it is related to trafficking in human beings as such or to any other form of abuse. The latter will, of course, be referred to the necessary services or organisations. This is one of the core tasks of the centres. The persons who are not victims of human trafficking are therefore referred by the relevant reception centres to appropriate structures such as Fairwork. That's the usual procedure. As part of the task force, the reception centres are intended to contact their NGO colleagues on the risks associated with Ukrainian refugees. Information and awareness-raising tools should be exchanged in this way. In the meantime, we've already established contacts with Fairwork. I now answer the sixth part of your second question. The inspection services are part of the task force at the next meeting. In general, the aim is to disseminate information and awareness-raising tools to the competent authorities and the services concerned, including the social inspection services. In addition, contacts have already been established with Fedasil to include information on trafficking in human beings and the specialised centres in the documents provided to applicants for temporary protection. As regards the seventh part of your second question, the task force will also establish the necessary contacts with regional services to provide local information sharing and follow-up. You can be sure that we are doing our utmost to act as quickly as possible, given the urgency of the situation. As far as your third question is concerned, the FEDASIL leaflet already contains basic information on trafficking in human beings and contact points. The leaflet will be distributed to applicants for temporary protection. In parallel, we are working on a simplified basic communication which is distributed through social networks and other channels. As far as your fourth question is concerned, there are currently two cases known to Payoke. It concerns one case of attempted sexual exploitation and one case of economic exploitation of three Ukrainian ladies. As far as your fifth question is concerned, the parquet is operationally ready to take up its coordinating mission, with the support of DJSOC Human Trafficking. Through the competent expertise network, the reference magistrates are also sensitized to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your committed and hands-on response. I appreciate that very much, as you know. This is already the starting point for a central hotline, who knows with the corresponding back office. I'm not putting it under the table that this is something I'm really striving for. You know that the special committee on trafficking in human beings has just been set up. It is working on recommendations. I dream that we can land there on such a recommendation and that this can be a first step in that direction. I wish you every success in that, of course. Besides, I think there are a lot of applications, but more about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u37	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, we are working on a new proposal of royal decree with a unique rate for locksmiths. It is clear that the current rates are no longer market-oriented and therefore need to increase. Our administration already had contact with two professional associations in 2021. This input served as a basis for the design of a new KB. In a second phase, the Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs has ensured that since 1 January this year consumers can identify reliable and transparent locksmiths by their identification card. In this way, the battle can be fought against malicious locksmiths. The design of the new KB is already based on Mrs De Bleeker's initiative. We will still submit the proposal to the professional associations, such as the Flemish Slotenmakers Union, and then finalize it through the usual ways with the Inspection of Finance and the Council of Ministers. It is true that certain valuation firms still have delays in paying out, such as in Namur, Brussels-Dutch and Eupen. In most other places, the payment period of 3 months is relatively respected. We have made an overview of the cost statements for locksmiths over 3 months of age who are still open in the accounting application. A total of 33 invoices for an amount of EUR 5.616.09. I am aware that in some cases the procedures for dealing with the cost states that have been introduced over the last two years still lead to delays. In order to improve the situation, additional staff have been recruited in the first place. The regulation is currently applied disparate and diffusely. There are different rules. For example, the Antwerp valuation agency works differently from the Limburg valuation agency. Now we want to put that on the same page. This obviously takes some time, but in the meantime we do provide a new application, Just Invoice. This application was developed in close collaboration with the field of work. The aim is to have as simple and efficient a system as possible for the submission and processing of the cost statement for the so-called performance providers of Justice, which includes locksmiths. Indeed, the valuation firms that started on 1 January 2020 do not have a document management system. All correspondence goes through e-mails. Email is definitely not suitable as a follow-up tool. Each of us knows the frustration of discovering a full mailbox after a few hours of meeting. The court fees amount to more than 200,000 documents on an annual basis. There was therefore a need for an application that aims to streamline the entry of documents. The application will serve as a control tool for the employees of the valuation firms. The application has been successfully tested over the past few weeks by a number of valuation firms that served as pilots. Over the next few weeks, we will unlock the application via Just On Web, so that the Justice Performance Provider can easily submit the cost statements and also have an overview of the status of his or her files submitted. There is still a historical delay in payment by legal experts. In general, only 30% is paid within 30 days. By introducing the application, we want to reduce the late payment in a step-by-step and in a significant way. Everyone must receive the payment promptly, whether it is a legal expert in criminal matters, a translator or a locksmith. That, too, is an important element for a credible justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic729x.u38	Mr. Secretary, you're working on a KB to increase the fees. It is important that the people working for the Justice Department, not only locksmiths, but also translators, interpreters, psychiatrists and experts, are paid in good time and correctly in order to make justice work better. They are all an important part of the entire chain of justice. Late payment has been a long-standing phenomenon. Hopefully, the app will be a step in the right direction to make everything more efficient, uniform and faster so that people can still be found to work for the Justice Department.
