ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u1	Secretary of State, Mr Toujgani has been on Belgian territory for four decades. You have withdrawn Mr. Toujgani's residence permit, referring to a State Security Report which would denounce the fact that it represents a danger both in terms of extremism and in terms of espionage for Morocco. We have no more information on the reasons for this withdrawal. What is known, however, is that this interpretation is not unanimous. According to Corinne Torrekens, a professor at the ULB and a specialist in contemporary Islam, if Mr. Toujgani is conservative and patriarchal, she says it is hard to believe that he is a threat. She adds: "I find it worrying that these reports from the Sûreté leave without possibility for the persons targeted to defend themselves". According to Abdessamad Belhaj, a researcher in Islamology at CISMOC at UCLouvain: "He is a theologian and imam with a traditional Islamic formation who insists heavily in his speeches and sermons on living together and social peace". On 1 October, the Brussels Family Court acknowledged to the Moroccan imam that his application for the acquisition of Belgian nationality should be granted, considering that he did not constitute a danger to national security and public order. For the judge, the charges of the Sûreté, that is, those you used to make your decision, were not sufficiently substantiated with respect to hate speech. It is surprising that Mr. Toujgani is being deprived of his right of residence after a procedure which does not allow him to defend himself, when an adversarial procedure before a court had led to the dismissal of the accusations of the Sûreté. Mr Secretary of State, can you make public the elements that led to this withdrawal to justify this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u2	Secretary of State, on 12 October, you withdrew this imam's residence permit because of "signs of a serious danger to national security" both in terms of extremism and in terms of espionage by the Moroccan authorities. At the beginning of October, the Brussels court had ruled in particular on the State Security charges against this imam in the context of a procedure for granting nationality. When you took the decision to withdraw the residence permit, the prosecutor's office had just appealed this decision. Have you taken into account, in your decision, the fact that a court considers that the State Security has not sufficiently substantiated its information? Do you believe, on the other hand, that the information provided by the State Security Service was sufficiently substantiated? Why not then wait for the decision to be cast into res judicata? How long has the government been aware of the potential danger posed by the Imam of the Al Khalil Mosque? I recall that he already declared in 2009 that it was necessary to "burn the Zionists". If it had been monitored for a long time, how could it be explained that the decision to withdraw a permit was only taken by you last October and not by your predecessor, yet at least as alert on these issues? Was there an imminent danger of which we are not aware? What is the status of the appeal procedure? Is the imam in question still on Belgian territory? Even if the following question is not entirely about your competence, perhaps you have an opinion on it: the fact that this imam has been in Belgium for 40 years, that it does not speak any of the national languages and that it has such an influence on the population does not indicate a failure of our integration processes? How can we explain that he is in charge of training?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Smet, even if the last question addressed to me does not concern my skills, I will not fail to give you my opinion. Colleagues, as I confirmed several weeks ago, in October last year, yes, I decided to withdraw Mr Toujgani's residence permit. This decision was not taken lightly and was based, Mr. De Smet, on very serious information that I and my services received from the security services. Mr. Toujgani is the former preacher of the Great Al Khalil Mosque in Molenbeek. He was very influential and, for some time, he had been very much in dispute. As you rightly say, in 2009, he called to burn the Jews and that's not all! Last year, the Foreign Office received interesting information from the security services showing that man should be considered a current, real and serious danger to national security. I, too, was informed by the security services of the elements of his file at the end of September 2021. You know that this information is classified and, to answer your question, Mr Boukili, I cannot make it public, but I can nevertheless tell you that it concerns extremism and interference. The content and scope of this information have been assessed by my services and it is clear from my competence to decide on this basis to withdraw his right of residence and to impose a ten-year ban on his entry into our territory. Yes, that implies that I believe that the elements provided by the State Security are sufficiently substantiated. Since when have the security services been monitoring this man and since when do they have this information demonstrating that it must be considered a danger to national security? This question should be put to the Minister of Justice, who has jurisdiction in this area. Similarly, as explained, the fact that he was teaching so many imams, given his profile, is not within my competence. The procedure for obtaining Belgian nationality is not closed. As long as he is not Belgian, I can withdraw his right of residence and the law does not oblige me to wait for the final outcome of this other procedure. I do not know whether one of you challenges the decision or character of this individual, but I do think it is a good thing in this Rule of Law to have the opportunity to withdraw the right of residence and not to wait until the end of a nationality procedure. The appeal against the decision I have taken has been brought before the Aliens Litigation Council and, no, it is no longer in Belgium. The fact that this man did not speak Dutch or French did not have an impact on my decision, but, Mr. De Smet, the reported acts of extremism and interference are evidence of a lack of integration into society. It is not the elements that will specify that man poses a real danger. For that, of course, there are other elements. But this leads us to question integration more comprehensively. In the past, I think we have given too much latitude to radical preachers. This man was probably the most influential preacher in Belgium. With this decision, we make a difference and give a clear message: we do not tolerate those who divide and threaten our national security. I would like to mention two more elements. First, I see that when questions are asked about the decisions taken, they are correct. Good thing we're still asking questions. But they always go one way or another in relation to the political groups. At the time of the decision to withdraw the right of residence in Belgium to an extreme right-wing preacher from Denmark, Mr Boukili, I do not think I heard you at that time. You didn't ask me whether the security services and the police really relied on correct information or not. I'm being posed today. I do not know what the position of the party is with regard to the decision taken. You can say that later. But this raises questions about the vision we have of this and not of another. While what we're trying to do is keep consistent and always make the same decision. On the basis of the security services, when I am told that someone poses a danger, whether it is extreme right, extreme left or extremist religious and dangerous, I will always take the same decision. I regret to note that the questions have been asked to me only in one context or another, on the basis of the political group. Maybe it was just by chance? Secondly, Mr De Smet, if you give me the opportunity to give my opinion on integration, of course, there have been huge gaps in integration in Belgium, in a global way and in Brussels precisely. I've grown up my whole life in Brussels. It is a city where, unfortunately, preachers have been given too much freedom to do everything and anything. Investing in a model of integration, not only at the level of religion, but in a more global way, of society, is important. Learning the language of the country where we live doesn't seem to me to be asking too much. The integration of an individual into the society in which he lives is something that will strengthen the human being. Too often, I see that in some political debates, in Brussels or perhaps in Wallonia, there are debates about whether or not to force someone to follow a path of integration. Yet, in itself, it strengthens the person. Yes, it is problematic to live in our society for 30, 40 years without even speaking Dutch or French. How can you understand the other if you don't understand your language? There's really a job to do and I think we're going this way. I only hope that it will go even faster than at the moment, otherwise living it together is nice, but it is especially so when you can really understand each other. You gave me the opportunity to express my opinion, which I did not fail to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is clear that hatred and hate speech must be combated at all levels. But what have we been waiting for since 2009? If it was considered to be hate speech dangerous to public safety, why did you wait 11 years? It's a first thing. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, what is being questioned in relation to this decision is the fact that there is a judgment. And this, I think, is new. In the case you quoted from the Danish extremist, there was no judgment of a court that said the opposite of your position. It was an administration that judged information from the State Security and made a decision. Here, a family court dismissed the charges on the basis of which you made your decision. It is there, the contradiction, when a judicial power - normally independent of the Executive in a rule of law and it is important to report it - makes a decision based on our legislation. You, you come, in a way...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u5	What decision are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u6	The decision you made to withdraw the residence permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u7	Which judge and what court are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u8	From the family court. When the Imam applied for citizenship, the Family Court ruled that there was a right and dismissed the accusations made by the State Security. Do you know about this? Yes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u9	There are elements!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u10	Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u11	(...) State Security (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u12	Mr. Secretary of State, do I have to believe you? The withdrawal of a residence permit on the basis of elements provided by the State Security may prove to be abusive! The family court judge tells us that he excluded the elements of the State Security (extremism, espionage) considering that this was not enough. His judgment was positive and your decision is contrary. Here's my question. You do not provide me with any answers on this matter. You say you have elements! But which ones? Do I have to trust you? Do I have to sign a blank check? My role as a parliamentarian is to control you. Why, Mr. Secretary of State, if you felt that there were additional elements that the family judge had not considered, did you not follow the path of a rule of law and did you not file a complaint against that person? Then a judge would decide whether it is proven that this individual is a danger to our safety, if the charges of espionage are real. In a judgment, there is the right of defence. There is no arbitrary decision like the one you made. That is what I reproach you, you are in contradiction with a decision of our justice. That is the problem in a rule of law. You have no justification but to say that the case is closed. I cannot believe you on the word: I need elements. We are not here to believe in words, but to believe in facts. You don't give us any material! To hide behind the fact that the case is closed is not enough. You must justify your decision, especially since it contradicts the decision of a judge. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I have no reason not to trust your decision or the elements on which you rely. However, there is a problem with transparency. The discussion you have just held with Mr Boukili reminds us of that. Parliamentarians must be able to monitor what the Executive is doing. If, at each decision a little complicated or which needs to be better supported (no doubt that the elements are there), the decision is justified by the classification of the elements, we find ourselves with a Secretary of State or an administration which has elements that he cannot share and which de facto undermines the nature of the control that we can exercise. When you reply that you don't hear the same thing about extreme right-wing Danish preachers, and you tell us to trust you because you apply the same policy to everyone, you are only asked to believe you. But if we do not have access to classified elements, even in camera or in a discussion of criteriology, we can imagine everything. How can we, as parliamentarians, monitor whether the same policy is applied to A and B? On the substance of the decision, I do not have much to say again as the elements stand, but it is true that there is probably something to be dug up in terms of transparency, otherwise we risk each time being frustrated as parliamentarians and undermined in our real power to control the action of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of January, the Director of Frontex provided the latest figures on irregular migration in the European Union territories: almost 200,000 people in 2021, representing an increase of 57% compared to 2020 and 36% compared to 2019. This brings us back to the figures recorded in 2017, with a precision on the Central Mediterranean route, which accounts for one third of the overall flow, with an increase of 83%, while for the Balkan route there was an increase of 123%. As far as nationalities are concerned, there are the five well-known countries of origin: Syria, Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria and Afghanistan. Even recently, while the draft European Pact on Migration has been paralysed for almost a year and a half, the United Nations has called for progress in this area in order to ensure European coherence in asylum policy and migration. You were, by the way, a few weeks ago in France with your colleague from the interior to deal with these issues. What are the first results of the resources allocated by Frontex in the Channel and the North Sea, particularly with regard to air patrols? According to a report I had seen on a French channel, there seems to be some concrete results. In the context of these figures of 2021 provided by Frontex, can you tell me what information you received about irregular transmigration in Belgium in 2021? What specific actions are being taken by the Office of Foreigners with the Belgian police services? Which ones are planned and organized in the coming months in response to these increases? What concrete initiatives are being planned with the European authorities in response to this incipient increase in figures? Finally, what cooperation has been decided on this issue within the framework of the European Home Affairs Councils and the French Presidency of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u15	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Mr. Pivin. Operations to combat transit migration are organized by the police, which may request assistance from the Aliens Office for this purpose. The latter is also part of the transit unit which analyses the GSM data of intercepted migrants. As you know, the Ministers of the Interior and Justice have made the fight against trafficking in human beings a priority. It is important to dismantle traffic networks in collaboration with our neighbouring countries. The fact, for example, that it is now possible to read all the information in the GSM to map the networks of these traffickers is an important and positive element in this fight against trafficking in human beings. I must therefore refer you to some of your questions concerning this specific information to the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. With regard to the results of the operation and figures from Frontex, the Aliens Office did not receive any statistical information from Frontex concerning transit migration in Belgium. But it certainly seems interesting to me to see how we can try to translate this into figures, especially knowing that there is now this Frontex plane which is also travelling over Belgium and France, at our request and at the request of our French friends, and thus knowing what the real impact is, the number of people who are trying to transmigrate to Britain. I agree with you on this point. As for European consultation, negotiations on the European Pact on Migration and Asylum are continuing and intensifying in the Council under the French Presidency. A first JHA Council under the French Presidency will be held in Lille this Thursday to discuss the progress of the Pact. I attended a conference on border management on 20 and 21 January in Vilnius, where Frontex was also present. Emphasis is placed on the operationalisation of external action on migration. New coordination structures have been put in place to ensure that the action plans drawn up for the main countries of transit and origin will be put into practice through coordinated action by Member States, the European Commission, the EEAS and agencies, making maximum use of all levers and incentives in all relevant policy areas. With regard to internal reforms on asylum and migration, a gradual approach is being pursued under the impetus of the French Presidency, which, pending global agreements on structural reforms – which will take some time – allows for more modest but parallel and concrete measures to be taken in the area of solidarity and accountability. In concrete terms, the idea or strategy of the French is to start from a model other than the German model. During their presidency, the Germans wanted to pass in force, thinking that everyone would follow, which was ultimately not the case. The French adopt another strategy which consists of moving step by step, but trying to find the balance in each step. As far as I am concerned, I think that the French adopt a strategy a little more rational than our German friends. I hope that this will finally make it possible to move forward a little faster on this issue. Indeed, we all know how important it is to find European solutions to a problem which in itself is European or even international.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that clarification. We will see in the coming months whether the strategy of the small steps that the French want to develop is more effective than that of our German friends. I hear a meeting will take place the day after tomorrow in Lille. I guess you'll be part of it. This may be an opportunity to obtain refined figures concerning Belgium in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, Fedasil announced that it had welcomed 964 refugees through resettlements. This is excellent news, considering the figures for the last three years. However, initially, according to the European distribution that was decided, the aim was to achieve 1,463 resettlements. The problem, of course, is the very complicated situation of the reception network. The period after Christmas was calmer, especially because of the work you have done and for which I thank you. But we may be on the eve of a new moment of tension as we know that places will close and that the number of asylum seekers continues to be quite large, while the number of exits is limited. Mr Secretary of State, what solutions are envisaged in the short term to avoid saturation? How are the discussions moving forward at the MENA ICD? Are there any new places for the latter? What progress has been made in consultation with the Defence or the municipalities? What are your forecasts of the status of our host network? Do you think that the 2,000 seats promised for June will suffice? Are we going to be able to achieve our relocation targets for 2022, which – I would remind you – are much better than the figures for the three years before.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u18	Mr. President, Mr. Moutquin, the Agency opened more than 2,600 reception places between the beginning of September 2021 and mid-January 2022, despite a covid-19 context with security measures, workforce reductions, a saturated labour market, and despite a socio-political context that is not obvious across the country. Whether it is in the North or the South, regardless of the political colour, unfortunately it is not always obvious to organise the reception with sufficient flexibility. The Agency and its partners reach their limits as inward flows are larger than expected and outward flows remain low. There is a real concern in this regard. We must therefore be able to move forward and ensure the opening of a number of places. Discussions are under way with several municipalities. One attempt is to open a centre in the municipality of Molenbeek, but this is not easy. Concerns on the ground must be taken into account. An attempt must be made to ensure that the places to be opened can be opened. I also heard you say in your question that we were going to close seats. Maybe I misunderstood you. The aim is not to close it in the first place. Access to reception must first be guaranteed for everyone. We will have another debate later on how to ensure first reception for those who do not have a Dublin procedure. In general, however, reception must be guaranteed. However, we must not forget something. I've already received several questions about buffer places. Where are they? These are the ones. At one point, we will deactivate the buffers and keep 5,400 seats in buffer places precisely to ensure better safety compared to the necessary reception places. In order to ensure the reception of MENA, in addition to the measures communicated to the Committee of the Interior on 11 January, a number of additional measures are under way. There is the continuation of the increase of the reception capacity with, in the first reception phase, the opening, on 17 January, of the temporary centre in Ixelles (40 places) – I thank the mayor for his good collaboration. In the second reception phase, a MENA wing will be opened in Lommel (60 places) and a MENA centre in Dilbeek (51 places). In the third reception phase, 15 seats will be opened at Agentschap Opgroeien in Vlaanderen. Concertations with the Communities to increase the reception capacity for young people under 15 and the most vulnerable young people is a second element on which we are working. I therefore suggest that you also ask questions to the Government of the French Community and to the friends of the Flemish Government. I note, in any case, that we have good cooperation with the competent colleagues in the Regions. There is work to be done on this subject. We know that the under 15s are increasing in number, and that they need a fairly specific reception that does not fit into the standard reception. Thirdly, consultation with the Tutelle Service is important in order to speed up the identification process. In this regard, too, I thank the Tutelle Service for the efforts it has already made. However, we still need to move forward and ensure that the welcome to MENA is reserved for MENA. Contact was made with local governments where appropriate. Fedasil can still count on Defence support for the creation of additional reception spaces and hopes that this will yield short-term results. We also continue to consult various other local authorities to open reception centres, as I have already mentioned, in Molenbeek. With Defence too, we are trying to work well together to see how to ensure hospitality for everyone. In addition, the Minister of Justice is working to speed up age tests so that he can know much more quickly whether the persons concerned are really minors or whether they have lied about their age. You asked me about relocation. We talked about the figures from previous years, where an ambition was mentioned. We come to the end of this term and must try to do what we can. You have rightly said that we have made a significant effort, and it is essential to understand that we have come from an unobvious context, where little has been done. By adding a saturated reception network, this has led to the issues we have encountered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u19	Secretary of State, I will correct what I said in my introduction about the small steps. I prefer small steps as you announce them, to big steps backwards that may have been made in the past. Thank you for your comprehensive response to the new places announced, especially for unaccompanied foreign minors in Ixelles. You say the labour market is complicated. That's true, and it's true in many sectors. However, there are people in Belgium who are willing to work, but who do not always have papers, whether for Fedasil or for other sectors in need, such as nurses, drivers of heavy goods vehicles or others. There is reconstruction work to be carried out with the municipalities. Many of us say that in this committee. The question of local reception initiatives (ILA) is fundamental to me. This is a complicated issue for the municipalities because a breakdown of confidence has taken place in the past. I will ask you later to understand what is blocking: are these questions of financial means, human or other? We need to reactivate this idea of ILA to defrost the Fedasil centers. New solutions could also be considered. In France, for example, many MENA go to residential youth service networks (RSJs), which sometimes allow for the mixing of complex types of population, but also to reduce congestion in reception centres. It's to be dug. Another solution would be to go through the citizens, who can and do already. In the past, an asylum seeker could leave the centre to go to a family, but the condition was that he could no longer return, making the system imperfect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, I am in my fourth question on the subject. But what happens at our airports and with our airport police? Cases of persons checked with the documents necessary for the right of residence and detained in closed centres after a decision by the airport police and the Aliens Office are increasing. Is this a case-by-case or a more structural problem? In any case, the report of Committee P contains conclusions which raise questions concerning the officers in charge of airport controls. The case before the Brussels Court of First Instance is that of Fouad, a 20-year-old young man, of French nationality, of Moroccan origin, born and resident in Belgium, and deported to Turkey in November 2020 after his return from Bodrum, where he stayed with his mother. However, the police asked him questions which he could not answer because he was mentally retarded. He will then be sent to the Caricole transit centre in Steenokkerzeel and then evicted not to France but to Turkey, the country of his holidays! The spokesman for the Office for Foreigners stated that the young man was taken care of by doctors when he was in a closed centre but that none of them perceived a mental disorder in his head. Mr. Secretary of State, where is this young man today? Why was he expelled to Turkey, a country where he spent a vacation? The Aliens Office did indeed contact the French authorities. They explained that they had destroyed all the archives that preceded 1993. On this basis, without the necessary information, how do you justify the expulsion of the young man to Turkey? What training is required for police officers? What review is carried out by the Aliens Office on the basis of the airport police administrative report? How many decisions to allow entry into the territory did the Aliens Office take when the airport police had previously drawn up a negative report? Do doctors in the closed centre have the skills to diagnose or doubt a diagnosis of mental illness? This young man has completed all his studies in special education, why has this not been verified by the Aliens Office in his proceedings before taking the expulsion decision? Does the Aliens Office have the power to expel persons with mental disabilities who are unable to answer the questions asked? Following the diagnosis of mental disability, has a return visa been issued? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, on 19 January we were told that someone was being put on a plane again, while there were questions. This time it's about a 20-year-old Brusselser with a mental disability who was on vacation with his mother in Turkey. When they returned to Belgium and had to undergo a check, Fouad's French nationality was questioned. Given his mental disability, he was unable to answer. However, other elements clearly point to his legitimate residence in Belgium. For example, he has an E card and a certificate of family composition, which confirm his regular stay in Belgium. His mother was released for medical reasons. He was sent back to Turkey without guidance. He can't take care of himself, and he's been stuck for months now, frightened in an unknown environment. Do you think it is responsible policy that a young man with a mental disability should be returned without guidance to a country he doesn't even know? Do you think it's normal for the airport police to exercise so much power without effective control? With a thorough check, that could never have happened. Can you confirm that Fouad was sent back to Turkey because of questions about his nationality? Was his right of residence withdrawn and that decision was served on Fouad so that he could appeal, or was his residence card simply taken away by the police without justification? How many decisions that went against a negative report from the airport police have been taken by the Foreign Office? Fouad went through his studies in particular. Why didn't the DVZ check that before deciding on a forced return? Finally, where is Fouad now? Have any steps been taken to bring his return to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u22	Mr Rigot, Mrs Daems, the Office of Foreigners examines each file individually and evaluates it on the basis of the data contained in the police administrative report, as well as the data of the file of the Office of Foreigners, if they are already known, and the interrogation of the person concerned. The police don't write a negative report. The administrative report shall contain the elements identified by the police at the time of the interception. So it doesn't contain a decision. It's taken by the Foreign Office. As I have already indicated, the data are not retained by the administration. Nevertheless, the Foreign Office publishes annual figures for Eurostat concerning reasons for refusal at the border. These are available on the website of the administration itself. In this case, which dates back more than three months, he was refused entry to the border because he did not meet the entry requirements. As I said in response to previous questions about individual cases, I cannot disclose information for privacy and confidentiality reasons. I note, however, that, in your question, you refer to certain elements that are currently inaccurate, such as the fact that the person in question would have French nationality. Mrs Daems, the person concerned was driven back from Belgium to Turkey. I do not know whether he is still in Turkey today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that the confidentiality of individual files must be safeguarded. However, I am still hungry because I do not get many answers today. I am the first to say that the rules and procedures must be respected. We are in the rule of law, it requires respect and we must demonstrate to all that we are the guarantors of respect for these rules. These rules are not made, Mr Secretary of State, to mask the excesses of zeal of the airport police who make decisions that sometimes seem biased and, at least, at least biased. To restore confidence in the airport police, it requires a clear mission framework, improving the training of those who control, train, frame, supervise and control the airport as well. In the year 2020-2021, there are four problematic situations of which we are aware, that is a bit much and that raises questions. Maybe there are, or probably others. I want to be assured that the work is well done. Committee P also has some doubts about this. With your colleague, Mrs Verlinden, I ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u24	I too remain hungry, because we haven't received many answers. A young man with a disability who has lived legally in Belgium all his life and went to school here, is sent back to a country where he was only on holiday. If there's no alarm bells going off, when will there be? You're just pretending that's the most normal thing in the world, but the worst part is that the situation hasn't been straightened out yet. You don't even know where the young man is now. I don't understand. You really don't seem to realize what the situation is for him and his family; it's just hell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, we heard from the press that there are plans to set up a new asylum centre in the municipality of Sint-Laureins, a beautiful rural municipality in the Meetjesland with about 2,800 inhabitants. The rumours about that shelter are causing some disturbance. There are 240 reception places, which corresponds to about 9% of the local population. So that has some impact. It is therefore not surprising that the city council has already expressed opposition. I also found an interesting poster of your fellow party members of CD&V Sint-Laureins, who oppose the arrival. "House of God not suitable as an asylum centre," it sounds, with a call for participation in a demonstration. It took place in the meantime. With 500 participants, this must be one of the biggest events Sint-Laureins has already seen. Mr Secretary of State, can you give us an update on the project? Is that what's coming? What capacity will the shelter have? Was there prior consultation with the municipal council? If so, how do you explain the strong resistance that exists there? Are you considering any other locations for the opening of a collective shelter? I liked to get an overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u26	The question sounds familiar to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u27	Your question is indeed very interesting. That question was asked by the President last week. Since it's your first time on this committee, I'll give you the information again. At federal level, we are sometimes a bit more coulant than at the Flemish level. I think you would have gotten a njet right away in the Flemish Parliament. Through his partner Red Cross Flanders, Fedasil wishes to open a reception centre in Sint-Laureins. There is currently no agreement between all parties for the operation of a reception centre. As a result, it has not yet been decided which target groups could be selected. The final capacity of the reception centre has not yet been determined. As always, local government was informed of the possibility of opening a reception centre. That's what happened to me. I always take the trouble to call the mayor. I take that for granted. The views of local authorities are always taken into account, but this cannot simply mean that there will be no reception centre. A consultation with local authorities should include a joint view of what is possible, how we respond to local concerns and needs, and how we can address certain questions and uncertainties. In this context, I am certainly planning sufficient contact with the municipality of Sint-Laureins. Given the scale of the reception crisis, it goes without saying that Fedasil investigates and considers a large number of locations. In doing so, many local authorities are contacted. Many slopes eventually lose weight, for example because they are not operationally feasible. The communication about the arrival of a new shelter I do as much as possible in consultation with the local government, but it is of course always free for local authorities to take control of the communication themselves. Immediately after my arrival I took the initiative to launch a mayor's survey to get a better view of the perspective of local government. The concern in the start-up phase is, very understandable, always great. Almost every mayor initially states that the local context is not compatible with a shelter. For example, it is a large and very diverse city, or a city with many challenges, or it is a rural municipality, with the argument that there is therefore little touch with the metropolitan problem. It should be noted that only 13% of mayors believe that the reception structure is rather poorly or poorly integrated in the municipality. It is striking that we see a clear improvement as the reception centre is longer there. The major challenge is, especially in the start-up phase, to eliminate many uncertainties and also to take into account what lives at local level to promote co-existence. Mayors, for example, also indicate polarisation, where there are often untruths circulating across a reception centre for asylum seekers in general. This raises problems for the good living together of the neighbourhood and the shelter, according to the mayors. Let us look, especially with the necessary serenity, at how plans can evolve further. We then look at how the integration of a reception centre in the neighbourhood can be as well designed as possible. For that, I will continue to consult with mayors, both in Saint-Laureins and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I regret that I was not allowed to receive an answer to my third question, my question about the other sites that are being considered. A greater degree of transparency was just one of the reasons a situation like this could have avoided. I welcome your understanding of the local resistance, but I would also ask you not only to consult with the mayors, but also to listen to the wider population. People often feel that over their heads is being decided. Therefore, listen not only to the local government, but also to the locals, if necessary to your partymates on the ground. I believe that this can only further enhance transparency in decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I promised you earlier that you would ask for a follow-up on this subject. In response to the ever-increasing secondary migration within the borders of the European Union, the Benelux countries have reached an agreement for accelerated Dublin takeovers. We have welcomed this agreement many times in the past and are looking forward to the results. In October 2021, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg reached an agreement to significantly shorten the response period between the different migration services. This would make the return of asylum seekers, who are already in a procedure in those countries or who have already gone through that procedure, faster and easier. How do you evaluate that agreement? How many Dublin transfers have been made with the Netherlands and Luxembourg since the entry into force? Have you already had talks with our other neighbouring countries, Germany and France, with a view to reaching a similar agreement? If so, how are these negotiations progressing and when do you think there will be an agreement? If not, when can we expect an initiative on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u30	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, it is still a little early to evaluate the agreement, since it was concluded on 26 October and entered into force 30 days later. There was consultation between the services until 15 December to implement the agreement. The cooperation is going well. In the last two weeks of December, 6 transfers were made to the Netherlands from Luxembourg. Two transfers were made from the Netherlands to Belgium each time. So we should be looking forward to evolution in the next few months, without the influence of the Christmas period. We'll follow this up close. We would like to extend this way of working to other countries. A similar proposal has already been made to France and Germany. We must now make maximum efforts to implement this agreement before we extend it to other countries. With the results of cooperation with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, we will be able to convince countries such as France and Germany in the short term. Convincing is best done with results. It is now up to the services of the three Benelux countries to work hard on this. And that has happened in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that a number of transfers have already taken place since the implementation of the agreement on 15 December. I also suspect that the services that are currently looking at this will have been pleased with the simplification, hopefully, of the Dublin transfers. I welcome the fact that you have already made a proposal to France and Germany. Perhaps you can clarify later when you have done so, because we hope that an answer will be forthcoming soon. You say that you will convince them with the results of the agreement already reached with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. I hope that France and Germany will be convinced without these results of the usefulness of an agreement on accelerated Dublin takeovers. An agreement on this, or at least a reaction from France and Germany, should not be long overdue. Hopefully, we will be able to extend the agreement as soon as possible, because it will help the countries and migrants to expand and, of course, to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, the Mayor of Spa was upheld in November 2021 by means of a summary procedure. It was decided that Fedasil had 48 hours to find a new shelter for 200 asylum seekers. For every day that no action would be taken, the penalty payment would rise by EUR 10,000 a day. The decision is based on the problems in Sol Cress regarding public safety, fire safety and sanitary safety. According to the mayor, there would even have been an attempted murder among the residents of the asylum centre. On 23 December, De Tijd announced that, contrary to her earlier announcements, the mayor has decided to collect EUR 330,000 in periodic penalty payments. That amount would be increased every day by 10,000 euros. We understand that you have not yet made payment for this because you would be in conversation with the mayor, as previous questions on this matter in committee have shown. I have a number of follow-up questions on that. What is the exact state of the conversation? Is the mayor prepared to waive the recovery of those periodic penalty payments and, if so, under what conditions? How many asylum seekers are staying at that reception centre in Spa today? Can you give us a copy of the judgment at first instance, whether or not anonymized where necessary? Is there a ruling on the substance of the case and if not, when is it expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u33	Mr Van Langenhove, discussions with the mayor of Spa are still ongoing. At this stage, it is not possible to communicate their progress. On Thursday 27 January there were 413 residents in Spa Sol Cress. On 20 January, an application for payment was served by the bailiff, but as you have already indicated, nothing has been paid so far. I know that the Justice Department is working on a database in which all judgments and judgments are available in a transparent manner. In addition, there is also an appeal for cancellation and suspension by the Belgian State and by Fedasil against the mayor's decision, but there is still no ruling on that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you cannot give details as long as the talks are still going on, in order to give them as much chance of success as possible. I'm looking forward to finding a solution. When the case will be brought before the Court of Justice and when a judgment will be given, you have not informed us, but we will certainly come back to this at one of the next committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u35	The Belgian State wanted to expel a radicalized hate preacher from the country, because he poses a threat to society, but the Council for Foreigner's Contests stopped it. Reports of the OCAD and the Security of the State describe Abdallah Ouahbour from Maaseik as a hate propaganda with a serious threat level. Last year, the Foreign Office started the procedure to expel him from the country. In June you decided that Mr Ouahbour, who is Moroccan, but has been living in Belgium since 1990, had to leave. Mr Ouahbour opposed his expulsion because he claimed to be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and feared being arrested in Morocco. The Council for Foreign Affairs has now decided to sweep your request for expulsion on the basis of other elements. The DVZ is examining whether a referral to the Court of Cassation should be made or whether a new expulsion should be prepared. What is the current state of affairs in the file? What concrete steps are being considered to remove this hate propaganda from the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u36	In the meantime, Mr President-in-Office, we all know Abdallah Ouahbour, the radicalised Islamic hate preacher you cannot get out of the country. Unfortunately, the file perfectly illustrates how difficult it is to expel a person who is a threat to public order and national security. Over and over again, governments have shown how difficult it is to take such measures. In 1990 Ouahbour came to Belgium as part of a family reunification, as so many do. In 2004, the tragic attacks took place in Madrid and Casablanca and in the aftermath of the attacks, Ouahbour, as the head of the Belgian division of the Groupe Islamic Combatant Marocain (GICM), was arrested because he was suspected of providing logistical support in the Madrid attacks, where many left their lives. In 2005 the Moroccan government asked Belgium for his extradition and not much later an international arrest warrant was issued against him. In 2006 he was sentenced to five years in prison for his terrorist acts. Four years later, Ouahbour served his sentence, but was later detained for his extradition to Morocco. He sued against this at the European Court of Human Rights, which decided in 2015 that the implementation of his extradition would be a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, namely the prohibition of torture. The proceedings continued and not much later the Brussels appeal court even granted Mr Ouahbour compensation for unlawful detention. During the period 2017-2021, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the OCAD, produced several reports showing that Mr Ouahbour poses a serious threat to our society. Still, it didn't turn out to be possible to expel that man from the country. Indeed, on 16 December 2021, your decision was annulled by the Council for Aliens' Conflicts, because the accusations of your address would be too general. Have you made a new decision on the Ouahbour case? If so, what did you decide? What diplomatic sanctions will you take against Morocco, because it has not been cooperating in the repatriation of displaced asylum seekers for years? How many files do you have in which you have taken an expulsion decision on grounds of public policy and national security where there is an appeal pending before the Council for Aliens' Disputes? Mr Ouahbour is part of the Groupe islamique combatant marocain, a division of Al-Qaeda which, as a Spanish investigating judge stated in 2005, played a key role in the quadruple train attack that in 2004 cost the lives of no less than 191 people. In this context, a list of the main leaders of the Belgian terrorist network was published in 2005. We then find the name of Abdelkader Hakimi, who, after the attacks in Madrid, was still working in Saint-Jans-Molenbeek, just like Khalid Bouloudo, who would even have met Osama bin Laden, El Houcine El Haski, who is actually on the picture with Osama bin Laden, Mourad Chabaro, who intended to plan and commit suicide attacks in Iraq, Mostafa Lounani, another head of the Belgian terrorist GICM cell, and Abdallah Ouahbour, who was also considered a leader of the terrorist cell in the 2005 newspaper reports, and who is a central figure in the attacks in Madrid which killed 191 people. How many of those people with clear terrorist profiles are still in Belgium today? How many persons have a Belgian right of residence and how many were deprived of the right of residence? How many of these terrorists now have Belgian nationality and how have they acquired it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u37	Mr President, in June 2021 I withdrew the residence permit of Abdallah Ouahbour, a man with a heavy profile. The information I have received indicates that he is a leading figure in the group of Maaseik. He is considered a hate propagandist and a recruiter with IS-sympathies involved in a terrorist network. According to the security services, there's a serious threat from him. He is therefore a danger to our society and does not belong here at all. There are many elements in the file that have led me to conclude that a withdrawal of the right of residence is justified and necessary. The destruction of the decision by the Council of Foreign Ministers exposes the structural problem, which I have already mentioned in my 2021 policy paper and for which I will work out a solution. The judges at the Council of Foreign Ministers today do not have access to classified documents and therefore do not always have a full view of the reasons behind a decision taken on the basis of public policy or national security. I note, however, that similar decisions have been taken in the past, but this has not always caused problems. However, I am a policymaker, and so if the Council takes a decision on alien disputes and asks for more explanation or information, I must do everything that is required so that the political level can ensure that someone who is a real acute danger to our security does not stay here. In cooperation with all the relevant actors, we are working on a new regulation so that the judges can have access to the file. I have to make more frequent decisions about people who pose a threat to national security. Those people, like everyone else, have the right to appeal. There are still a number of procedures pending or in preparation. I propose that written questions be submitted for the exact figures. In any case, we must above all ensure that the judge is able to judge in that check with a view to the whole dossier. This inequality must be eliminated so that we can achieve an effective removal of people who pose a threat to society. As regards the specific case, there was no point in bringing an action before the Council of State in so far as it could only rule on the legality of a judgment of the Council of Foreign Ministers and the correct application of the law or not. The Council of State cannot re-assess the facts. What we are doing is examining how we can respond to the objections of the judge in order to take a new decision which will pass the judicial test this time. That is better, because it is not limited to the symbolic decision, which would mean a cassation appeal. The basis of the dossier is indeed a matter of major importance, to which the authors themselves referred. I hope that no one in this House will question that such figures are a danger to our society. Mr Van Langenhove, as regards your question about the GICM network and the persons mentioned, there are still four people in Belgium. A person has left and a person has been repatriated to Morocco. Mr Ouahbour is still entitled to stay as a result of the judgment of the RvV, but a new decision is being prepared. For one person, Annex 35 shall apply, i.e. there is still an appeal procedure, and another shall be subject to the order to leave the territory. A person has Belgian nationality and therefore does not fall within my competence. Questions can be put to colleagues about this. In Mr Ouahbour's file, additional questions on cooperation with Morocco on return are less relevant as it cannot be removed at the moment, but the question is justified. We have not rejected many asylum seekers from Morocco on our territory, but we have succeeded in removing some people in illegal residence from Morocco. Cooperation with the countries of origin, and not only with Morocco, can and must of course be improved. Diplomatic sanctions are always the last resort used after all the other diplomatic instruments have been exhausted. They are taken after thorough analysis in coordination with the government in particular, but especially with foreign affairs. It should be noted that sanctions for certain countries, especially if they were taken individually as Member States, often have a counterproductive effect on the cooperation of the third country in question. I hear from foreign colleagues, among others, from the Netherlands, that, when a country takes unilateral measures for a particular country, it sometimes suffers. It is therefore necessary to consider whether, with whom and in what way, strategic alliances can be established in the European Union, so that action can have an impact. There's the crux. This is also one of the reasons why our country traditionally looks at diplomatic sanctions against third countries in an international context. I can only repeat what I have said a few times in committee, namely that I am a great advocate of using visa code 25A in order to be able to proceed to visa sanctions. I note, on the basis of discussions with colleagues at European level, that this opinion is shared by my colleagues responsible for migration. I am convinced that we, together with the EU, must put our weight on this and I welcome the fact that the Council has taken a number of concrete steps over the past year. I will continue to press for the EU to continue to play its full role in this. In the meantime, it is also my responsibility to maintain bilateral contacts, especially with countries such as Morocco. It seems to me that such dossiers, which often continue to dwindle and get a lot of attention, do not do Morocco's image any good. If a country prefers not to be in a negative light, it will be of great benefit to conclude good return agreements and to cooperate in returning its fellow countrymen. These arguments will enable us to take the necessary steps towards increasing the return of Moroccans without a right of residence to Morocco. That policy stood for it because of corona on a very low pitch. We must ensure that countries comply with their international obligations and that we get rid of those who threaten our security as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, we urge you to use all legal means to expel the hate propagandaists as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, the case illustrates that Belgian migration policy, Belgian asylum policy and, to a large extent, justice are flawed. Firstly, the doors are wide open to come to Belgium, whether legally or not. Secondly, convicts, terrorists and people suspected of terrorism are still barely being followed. This is also apparent from several cases: apparently the Minister of Justice does not know where people who are being followed because of terrorist threats are located. Returned IS-brides and IS-terrorists, for example, are not being adequately monitored. Thirdly, the case cited shows that procedural battles can still be used as a shield to stay in the country. Fourthly, it appears once again that even if you get a positive decision from the Council, the country of origin is not obliged to cooperate in repatriation as in the past. That's where, especially as far as Morocco is concerned, the shoe is pinching. I will certainly submit a written question in order to obtain the exact figures and also question the Minister responsible about the terrorist who apparently has Belgian nationality and who may also be in Belgium. The cooperation with Morocco is, of course, a story of the root and stick. Both the root and the stick must be at hand in these negotiations. Countries that cooperate with us, which conclude a proper return agreement, can get favours, the root. Countries that do not wish to do so must sometimes, even if it is, for example, also be able to get the stick. I hope, together with you, that your arguments will suffice, but I fear in the case of Morocco. As far as strategic alliances are concerned, we are in favour of concluding small-scale alliances and not waiting for you to conclude an alliance with all the European Member States. Start small.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, the migration code gives us many possibilities, but there are also a number of pitfalls. The French-speaking Chamber of the Council for Foreign Disputes appears to treat cases substantially differently from its Dutch-speaking counterpart. The new code of conduct that is in the pipeline is an excellent opportunity to tackle this issue in depth, as we discussed at the previous committee session. We understand that you want a balance in the discretionary power of reform of the judges of the Supervisory Board. On the one hand, you are in favour of limiting the powers of reform of the courts in order to achieve a more uniform case law and, on the other hand, you are in favour of introducing new elements for the CSR, which will give the judges greater power to facilitate the rapid conduct of the appeal procedure. In order to remedy the difference in treatment by the language chambers, you hope that clear procedures will contribute to a more uniform interpretation. We believe that clear procedures are a good start, but absolutely not enough and far too little concrete. Moreover, Article 39/6 of the Foreign Law already provides for the possibility of dealing with cases in unified chambers in order to ensure the unity of justice. However, in 2020 only eight cases were dealt with in those unified chambers. Mr Secretary of State, will you inform the working group which rewrites the migration code that, in addition to efficiency, simplification and transparency, the elimination of the unfair difference................................................................................................................................................. What concrete measures will you take, in addition to the clear procedures of the new migration code, to remedy the difference in the treatment of cases between the two language roles? Will you be inclined to strengthen the role of the unified chambers within the RV? If so, in what way? Is it intended to increase or reduce the discretionary power of the judges of the RV with the new migration code?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u41	Mr Van Langenhove, I do not know what you mean by discretionary powers, but the judges in the RV have no discretionary powers. I do not understand your question as to whether I would like to increase or reduce that in the migration code. The Judges of the Supervisory Board shall verify that an administrative decision is a correct application of the law. Once this decision has been taken by the CGIS, they can also reform it, but it is very clear when and under what circumstances they can do so. That's not discretionary power. It applies to the CGVS. The judge will then be independent and fortunately that independence of our legal system still exists today. The case law of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking chambers in cancellation hardly differs. In full jurisdiction, there is a difference. One possible explanation is that these cases often involve a fact and credibility assessment, and there is a little more margin on that. As a seeker of justice, one cannot just choose which chamber to deal with the case. The language role is determined by the language of the underlying decision. The CGVS also deals with other cases in French than in Dutch. That also makes a difference. There are also differences in the case law of the Council of State and this can also have an impact. The procedural means that we would have to incorporate into the law in order to remedy this are limited. Mechanisms have already been introduced in the Aliens Act to increase the number of judges sitting together and to consider a particular problem collectively. Article 39/6 of the Foreigner's Act provides that a President of the Chamber may inform the First President and the Chairman that there is a matter which, in his opinion, should be dealt with by the United Chambers in order to ensure the unity of justice. It is ultimately the first President or the President who decides whether a case is effectively dealt with by those unified chambers. That happened 8 times in 2020. I have nothing else to say about that. You also remember that the lockdown in 2020 did not make it obvious to hold a session, let alone a sitting in unified rooms where different people are in the same room. It is also important to mention that dealing with a case in unified chambers is labour intensive. Not 1 but 4 judges then look at the case, supplemented by the President of the Chamber and the Chairman or First Chairman, that is 6 persons. It would have a huge impact on the workload if we did so systematically. Then the backlog would increase considerably. The number of judges has been increased, but if we deal with everything in unified chambers, we'll never get there, no matter how many extra judges we get. I shouldn't even think about what the impact would be on the receiving network. Nevertheless, it can sometimes be very useful to make that investment. I am therefore confident that the first President and the President will make up for that. What I can certainly do with the new migration code is to ensure clear, transparent rules, with no paragraphs referring to other paragraphs in the legislation that no longer exist. Then the judge must take into account in foreign law a paragraph which no longer exists and does not know what to do. Then there's trouble. Ensuring that the law is clear and transparent is important, both for those seeking justice and for the administration and the judges themselves. The committee of experts I have set up is looking at all possible ways in which we can do so. They're working on that. Hopefully everyone will be able to make it a success. This will help us in the short, medium, but especially in the long term. This will have an impact not only on tomorrow, but also on the years to come. It is therefore important that we invest in this. I would again like to thank the members of the committee and my services who are working hard on this for the great work they have done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u42	The margin you are referring to is, of course, the discretionary power. The interpretation of such a judge of the law and of files is discretionary. Indeed, in the case of foreign law, it is often much greater because foreign law is just limp. There are indeed references to articles that would not exist and references that do not make any sense at all. In this way, the discretion of the court is increased against their own will. Those people would also much prefer that the law should be a little more unambiguous and work a little better. They are also eagerly looking forward to a new migration code. It would be more just if the difference between the two language roles would be greatly reduced. Once again, I have not heard any concrete measures to reduce that difference. You say almost the same thing as the President of the Council for Foreign Affairs. When it comes to that unjust difference in the committee, he says time and time again that this will be looked at and that efforts will be made to reduce it. However, nothing concrete is ever said, how this will actually be done to ensure that the language role does not determine what the outcome of a dossier will be. Hopefully, you will use this new migration code as a suitable opportunity to address this unjust difference. The Council of Foreign Ministers' workload is, of course, far too high because the influx into our country is simply too high. There are too many files, there are too many migrants, there are too many cases that are submitted to the Council of Foreign Ministers. That number needs to be reduced and then we can safely make more use of unified rooms that will remedy the difference between those language roles. So limiting inflow is the answer to the question to almost everything in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u43	It's a mantra, Mr. Van Langenhove.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, the Brexit no longer applies the Dublin Agreement in Great Britain today. This means that we are no longer obliged to take back displaced asylum seekers. You have already explained here that you would not receive any transmigrant who wants to send Britain back to our country. What's going on with that now? Has our country already received applications from the United Kingdom? How many people was that about? What was your response to those questions of withdrawal? Do you maintain your position that you will not receive any immigrants from the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u45	Mr Roggeman, there are two ways in which the United Kingdom can ask Belgium to take someone back. First of all, there are the driving-backs, for which I refer to the Minister of the Interior, because these are requests that go through the police. In addition, there are the re-admission applications, of which two were in total, both of which have not been carried out. In 2022, for example, for one of those two, the request was refused with the reason that, as a result of the removal of membership, the legal basis provided by the Dublin Regulation and the Return Directive for the withdrawal of the person concerned from the United Kingdom by Belgium was also deleted. If you are no longer part of the European Union, you will fall off the boat for a number of things. We call on Dublin, for example, to send people back to the Netherlands. I refer to the question raised earlier about accelerated cooperation with the Benelux countries. I do not know what has been going on in the British campaign, but the reality is that if you step out of the Union, you play with different rules. You cannot just say that you are no longer in the European Union, but you still rely on Dublin because you still find that piece interesting. At that time, I must apologize and state that those people will not return to Belgium. As you know, only applicants for international protection are also entitled to reception. If a person who has been taken over from the United Kingdom applies for asylum in Belgium, he will be taken in. A transmigrant, on the other hand, is not being taken into account, because it certainly does not fall within my competence. We are trying to inform and encourage people as best we can to follow the rules and apply for asylum. If people apply for asylum, they can get protection, but they can take care of a transmigrant, it is not my responsibility. Finally, for a long time the United Kingdom has been asking Belgium and France to conclude major return agreements, so that every person who reaches England returns to Belgium or France. They may, of course, ask that, but I can give my own answer to that, which is known in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u46	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your clear answer. I welcome the fact that re-admission applications are indeed refused, which is indeed a logical choice. As far as the figures for driving backs are concerned, I will ask your fellow Minister Verlinden for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, as of today, 1 February, the CGVS will again take decisions on whether or not to grant refugee status and international protection to Afghans who have a request for procedure here. That restart will come after the suspension that has been in force since August. The CGVS has already indicated that not all applicants may receive a positive response and that people will therefore also have to be sent back. You traditionally rely on voluntary return, but it goes without saying that in some cases forced return is also appropriate. In that case, the problem arises that there are no local contact points since the takeover of the Taliban. You replied in the press to questions on this matter not to anticipate the facts and referred to the European Union as the trigger of the dossier. In the meantime, it's time, so I'd like to hear what's about to happen. Do you take certain initiatives or should we understand your reference to the European Union if you do not take steps yourself? What's gonna happen? Do you also take into account the fact that in the case of ongoing evacuations there may also be people whose application will not be honoured?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u48	Mr Roggman, the CGVS is an independent body that takes decisions in good conscience. I cannot anticipate a decision that has not yet been taken or predict which decisions the CGVS will take in applications for international protection submitted by Afghans. If a negative decision is taken in a file, my services will follow the usual procedures, including ICAM guidance. If it comes to a forced return, my services will evaluate all the elements of the file and the situation surrounding the identification and return to Afghanistan at that time. Again, when and what decisions are taken depends on the CGVS. Before taking over the Taliban this summer, the European Union was already working very actively with the then authorities to develop a cooperation on identification, return and reintegration. That worked very well, but that arrangement has now been suspended. The Afghan authorities demanded an integrated approach and only the EU could make such an investment. At present neither Belgium nor the EU recognise the Taliban as diplomatic interlocutor, although they do have effective control over Afghan territory. Any speculation about recognition is premature and, in any case, something on which you can question my foreign minister. If there is a dialogue between the Afghan authorities and the EU, the question remains how Afghans will respond to the former European approach to forced return. Returning to Afghanistan is already possible on a voluntary basis. There are flights to Kabul, but again, everything that has been said before is a hypothetical answer to a situation in which much will be determined by colleagues in the government and also internationally. There have been no new evacuations since August. However, individual applications for humanitarian visas are still being submitted and evaluated. Among other things, it looks at the specific threat an Afghan faces in its own country, and the likelihood that that person will receive international protection in our country. The more vulnerable the person, the more likely he is to qualify for a humanitarian visa. Think of aspects such as one's orientation, his belief, his gender, the usual things that play a role. We must make sure that the issue of a humanitarian visa is about people with a very high degree of recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u49	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is true that the CGVS operates autonomously and that all speculations about this are premature, but with respect for the independence of the CGVS I think I can say that the probability of 100 % recognition is virtually non-existent. Moreover, the CGVS has identified this problem in its own communication. However, saying that we will see that no decisions have yet been taken and that this decision has been extended for you does not seem to me to be a sensible idea. It is clear that policy action is needed. I agree with you that it is mainly at European level, but I do not think it is very hopeful either. The European Union's track record on readmission agreements is not that impressive. We have been negotiating with the Maghreb countries for 20 years without success. In view of this situation, therefore, we do not really live on hope. I hope that you will do more yourself and that you will not just rest on your laurels in the hope that someone else will solve it. After all, I fear that the latter will not happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u50	Dear Secretary of State, at the hearing on 25 January, Caritas, perhaps well-known to you, advocated pre-care places for unaccompanied minors. In this type of shelter, it would be appropriate to work towards a sustainable integration whereby unaccompanied minors could eventually move on to the first stage of reception. Caritas said: "An immediate description does not seem to us immediately desirable in the beginning of this guidance because we find that this deters many of those youngsters. In our practice, we see that it is more effective to lead these young people to registration at their own pace by providing them with correct information in a safe environment." What is your position on the so-called pre-retirement places for unaccompanied underage foreigners or 'young people on transit', as we said in committee, where an immediate description would apparently not be required?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u51	Mr Van Langenhove, the identification of unaccompanied minors in the Voogdij Department is important for the identification and follow-up of minors. However, when we see that such a description ensures that the minor is not on the government radar at all, it is important to consider how we as a government deal with it. It is necessary to consider what we can do to further protect minors. Even if these minors have traveled to Belgium on their own, you can rest assured that many are in very vulnerable situations. We find that the street children around the Zuidstation, for example, are very young. A ten-year-old boy is no exception. Unfortunately, they often get involved in drug and prostitution environments. That is why I think there is reason to take a good look at what we are doing about it. The minors around the North Station who wish to travel to the United Kingdom are also getting younger and younger. For certain minors, it is necessary to think outside the existing framework. We see that the existing routes and reception facilities are not enough to get them on a regular route in Belgium. The minors are often in dangerous situations that we cannot close our eyes to. This is why Fedasil finances, for example, the project Xtra MENA of Caritas, where outreach is carried out in the Noordwijk. That's why Fedasil also works together with the municipalities of Anderlecht and the Brussels OCMW's on small walk-in homes for Maghreb street children. When it comes to asylum in general, I am not in favour of pre-care. We need to register people and only then do they have the right to care. You don't have to convince me of that. The question that one must dare to ask is what one does with boys of 10 or 12 years old who end up in a prostitution and drug environment, sniffing glue at the station and living in terrible conditions. When they are asked to register, they are known to run away immediately. Where do they end up? Again in a prostitution and drug environment. For those children, I am prepared to look at what we can do to convince them and try to protect them from the rancid environment in which they find themselves. I am not in favour of pre-care in general, but in the case of children sometimes 10 years old, we must dare to think outside the box. In the vicinity of the North Station such sad groups are sometimes seen. I am not talking about the young people you are talking about and sometimes being abused. Maybe we can understand each other in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u52	I fully agree with your motivation to see what's best for those kids. We must always think for the sake of the child. You asked yourself how best to protect these children. You're talking about 10-year-olds sniffing glue and getting into horrible environments. The answer to that is very simple. I also refer to what the speaker from Minor-Ndako came to the committee to say, in particular that these minors are still very well connected with family and friends in the home country. The answer must then be quite clear that in most cases it is best for those unaccompanied minors to guide them humanely, with all possible support, with all possible means, to a decent life in their country of origin, where they are well connected. This is very rarely the case with Belgium, Flanders or Brussels. You refer to young children aged 10 years. In this situation, it is clear that we must do what is necessary to help them as best we can and that we must sometimes think outside the framework. However, sometimes it concerns 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds, 18-year-olds, sometimes 20-year-olds, 21-year-olds or 22-year-olds, who claim to be unaccompanied minors. For this we cannot simply put aside the existing legal framework and apply exception rules which do not require them to be registered. This, like the growth package, the diaspora and many other things, will form an attraction pool for the group of unaccompanied minors, whose influx into Belgium has already seen an exponential increase. So let us help these young people on their way back to their country of origin as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u53	Mr. Secretary of State, in order to place there the first detention house in Wallonia, the site of the former rest house of Providence, in the heart of the popular district of Hodimont in Verviers, had been envisaged. Because of its direct and even immediate neighbourhood with a school and a reception centre for victims of domestic violence, this choice, we can understand, has aroused a strong emotion and the mobilization of many citizens, associations and inhabitants of the neighborhood. So that a week ago, your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments took notice of the final abandonment of the project there. That was good news. However, this building will remain in the federal direction, which still intends to complete the purchase process. But for what assignment? It seems - in any case, as the mayor of Verviers has announced - that it would be a matter of setting up a Fedasil centre specifically for the reception of single women with children. In any event, it is imperative to learn from the mistakes that have been made in the prison file. It is therefore important to consult, from the beginning of the process, the actors of the field who are very demanding, - they spoke again last night at the municipal council of Verviers - to involve them in the reflection, all the more so since Hodimont, a popular district par excellence, is full of associations, as well as of initiatives and citizens' initiatives that are all more interesting than the others, which can bring real added value to the project. The questions I would like to ask you today are simple, Mr Secretary of State: do you confirm that you are studying the possibility of setting up a reception centre at this place, which is essentially reserved for a female audience? If so, do you intend to consult local actors, including the community sector, before moving forward and making a final decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u54	Thank you, dear colleague Ben Achour. I confirm that the Régie des Bâtiments has very recently proposed this building. Fedasil has not yet contacted the local authorities regarding this site, as feasibility analyses are still under way. Somewhere, you're speeding me up because I always like to try to be the first to contact the mayor to see how to facilitate field work. Once the feasibility studies are finalized and if it is specified that there is a possibility of receiving asylum seekers, I will do what is necessary by immediately contacting the mayor to see how to move forward. The Red Cross, on the other hand, as a partner of Fedasil, is in contact with the local authorities, as the city is still using a 150-seat shelter for flood victims this summer. For my part, I thank you for your question and the elements you add when you talk about the community network. An investigation among the mayors took place. She said that, in any commune, when you start to set up an asylum centre there, this often raises questions at the beginning. There are concerns and concerns. In more than 90% of cases, after a few months, there's nothing left and everything's going well. In fact, the world of associations is organized, people realize that these asylum seekers are not problematic and that we get to know each other. To make it easier, you have to work with the community world. On this subject, I extend my hand to you. If we move forward, once the studies are finished, and a centre is on this site, I think we should try to look at what we can do to make things easier and ensure that living together is easier rather than complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u55	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this answer and above all for the outstretched hand I enthusiastically accept. The information is known. It was mentioned, once again, yesterday at the communal council. There was a citizen arrest, precisely, of the neighbourhood committee, which had mobilized against the house of detention. The Régie des Bâtiments has already informed the mayor of this possibility. We're not here betraying a secret. The information was known. In my opinion, you haven't been there yet. You should know that the site of the former nursing home, which could accommodate the Fedasil centre, has a wall of 30 to 50 meters that directly overlooks a playground of a primary school. More than 50 windows and doors overlook this courtyard. So you can see how meaningless the prison project was. With regard to the Fedasil project, very quickly, as soon as the technical studies are carried out and it will be considered possible to set up a Fedasil centre there, I think it is really necessary to contact the public to check that the idea gives rise to a form of membership and to find the paths to this possible accession. Indeed, it is the place of life of thousands of people. On a project that may seem intuitively complicated, it's never obvious that we're going to accommodate dozens of asylum seekers in a very impoverished neighbourhood. I really believe that we must first and foremost meet with the associations on the ground and not just the local authorities. I'll be your intermediary to do that. The management of the school will certainly also be very interested in a constructive dialogue with you. We have to do it. This is important for the success of the project, provided it is considered a good project in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have learned from the media that you intend to tighten the tone in the face of asylum seekers who have applied in another European country. In 2021, nearly 11,000 people in one Member State who had already applied for asylum applied for asylum in Belgium. This is more than in 2020, where there were 6,178 applications, a year mainly marked by covid; it is also more than in 2018, where 8,000 applications were submitted, compared to 11,000 applications in 2019. At the same time, 1,349 people already had refugee status in another EU Member State and again applied for status in Belgium. Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that this situation also contributes to the saturation of our reception network at a time when it is important, in the middle of winter, to ensure that those who are entitled to a reception can benefit from it, do not find themselves on waiting lists and must wait for places to be freed. I am thinking in particular of the most vulnerable groups. Mr Secretary of State, how do you intend to further control this situation? What are the new measures that you are going to implement in practice? How many applicants for Dublin international protection are currently in the network? This is an important issue. How many did they receive a return decision, but did not comply with the return decision? Why do IPRs with status already request a status in Belgium again? What's your plan for them? What is your plan for applicants for international protection who have Dublin status and travel to Europe? What is the backlog of Dublin cases allocated? How are you going to reach Dublin IPRs that are not in the host network? What will be the consequences for these people, in the event of a lack of accommodation, in relation to the vulnerability criteria applied? Moreover, as you said, the legal period will be extended from six to eighteen months? Will this measure be effectively implemented in the event of refusal, in particular, of a PCR test?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u57	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I am disturbed because the question that has been forwarded to me does not include all the questions that you have asked. So I will try to answer it as best I can, but I ask you to be understanding. As I have already explained, this is not at all a refusal to accept the Dublin IPRs, but a medium-term way of managing the reception places in order to give priority to ensuring the accommodation of families and the most vulnerable, at a time when the lack of places is imminent. People are invited to send their accommodation request to Fedasil who will re-invite them to designate a place for them. At the moment, we have a reception network of more than 30,000 places. The number of people who still arrive every day at Petit-Château remains very high. We continue to create new reception centres. We talked about Verviers. Others are still under discussion. But, in the meantime, the number of applications remains very high, we must ensure that those who do not have access to any bed in any European country are given priority in the granting of reception. This is why some are waiting, but they are not denied reception. It is important to clarify that. It is a way of trying to manage the number of people arriving at the Petit-Château, while waiting for the creation of new places. Between 24 and 31 January 2022, 77 isolated men were invited to register on the waiting list. This is a temporary measure. If I'm not mistaken, out of those 77 people, 41 people have been placed on the waiting list. The duration of waiting will depend on the release and opening of reception places. Fedasil continues to continue its extensive research to open additional places so as to limit this period to the maximum. In the written question you sent me, you say that Fedasil still has a hundred seats. So I invite you to tell us where they are because the places we have are reserved for those who need them and are used. However, new places are still being sought throughout the country to ensure that places are available for those in need, especially for specific audiences. The number of families in particular has increased in recent weeks, and it goes without saying that the place reserved for the reception of a family is different from that reserved for a single man. The number of MENA has also increased. MENA seats are therefore important. If new centres or places are available, we must not hesitate to study, a political party per political party, what possibilities could be used. Social support will begin as soon as they arrive in a reception centre. On the other hand, persons are entitled to medical assistance upon registration of their application. We remember these images where people were waiting for days in front of the Petit-Château before they could register. This waiting list allows everyone to apply without having to wait outside for days. This measure must help us to ensure that this problem is eliminated. Moreover, this does not prevent the Aliens Office from taking initiatives regarding their administrative situation. The reception will not be subject to any commitment to return to the Member State responsible for processing their request, but failure to comply with their obligations under their procedure may affect their right to material assistance, as provided for in the host law. When someone has to go to the first country where he or she has already applied for international protection, if that person refuses to cooperate on the return, it has, of course, an impact on the reception. Finally, you asked how many people under the Dublin Regulation were in the reception network, or something else. I suggest that you introduce a written question on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u58	Secretary of State, I will introduce questions to complete your answer. You are right: a refusal to accept must be avoided, since these people, whatever the situation, are entitled to a reception. I understand that you put priorities and choose to do so for those who do not have an alternative solution. However, an applicant for international protection who has submitted an application with his family in Spain does not have the possibility of having a bed when he arrives in Brussels. His bed is in Spain and not here, and unfortunately he finds himself on the street with his family. We need to pay real attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u59	Not the families. This applies only to men.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u60	All right. However, I would like men not to be in this situation either and not to be on the street. The process of managing these Dublin cases should therefore be speeded up, but we know that it is not simple. I understand that there are no 100 places in the network, but we may be able to speed up some processes. Controlling the right to reception throughout the network would make it possible to free up places. Today there are men and women who are no longer under the conditions of the right to receive, and because there is a delay of control by the host structures via Match-It software, via Evibel, and others, the people without rights are in the network while others, with right, are on the street. This must be corrected, we must give ourselves the means to achieve it. The delays in moving from one phase to another must also be respected by the reception facilities because, during the waiting period, two places are blocked by the same person. There is certainly also the issue of covid places. It can be seen that the Codeco reduces quarantine and control measures. I think it is also an opportunity to review these buffer places which are kept for covid cases in the reception facilities and to reduce, provided there is medical justification and no health risk, the number of places which could be occupied for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, the Brussels Court of First Instance condemned the Belgian State and Fedasil for the maladministration of the reception crisis at the end of 2021. The court has also imposed a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 for each working day that at least one person would apply for international protection and cannot exercise that right. Are there still people who don't get shelter? If so, how many people are involved here? Have periodic penalty payments already been paid? If so, how much was already paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, on Wednesday 19 January 2022, the Belgian State and Fedasil were convicted of maladministration of the reception crisis at the end of 2021. The court imposed a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 per day that at least one asylum seeker's right to asylum is not respected. This was done on the basis of facts at the end of 2021, when the DVZ chose not to register any more asylum seekers, which also prevented them from receiving reception. Afterwards, it was decided to re-register, but the right to care was not yet respected. Some asylum seekers even had to sleep on the streets in the winter cold. Civil society has tried very hard to cope with the failure of the government, but was over-questioned. In short, the rights of asylum seekers have been violated. Mr Secretary of State, since the verdict, you have decided not to grant reception to asylum seekers whose fingerprints were taken from another country until the reception capacity is sufficient. This is a violation of European directives, the right to asylum and the rule of law. How long will you continue to apply the measure? You stated at the last meeting that you respect the right to asylum and reception of asylum seekers. This includes asylum seekers who are covered by the Dublin rules. You state that, given the state of the reception networks, you must work with priority rules. You also spoke of this in the media, but you do not say what steps you will take to protect the rights of all asylum seekers. What steps have you already taken, measures that show that you no longer exclude asylum seekers who are covered by Dublin rules? Finally, do you think that the structure of your reception network is stable and flexible enough to cope with the normal fluctuations in numbers of asylum seekers, without putting too much pressure on workers and the quality of care? We do not consider the quantity of reception places here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u63	Colleagues, any person standing in line at the registration centre in the morning may register their application for international protection with the Foreign Affairs Office. In other words, the right to asylum is guaranteed. Since last week, the state of the reception network has stopped allowing everyone to receive it immediately after registration. I have therefore decided to apply a priority rule and not to work with the first come first served rule. After all, this practice ensures that people stay overnight in line to get their turn on the next day. Priority is now being given to families, vulnerable persons and minors. Persons who have already applied for asylum in another EU country and have already received protection in some countries can register on a waiting list. They will be called up as soon as there are sufficient shelters. Last week it involved 77 people, of whom 41 were finally registered on the waiting list. In the context of the reception crisis, no periodic penalty payments have been paid as a result of the conviction by the court of first instance or in individual files before the labour court. The reception network is currently not stable and flexible enough to cope with fluctuations in the number of applicants for international protection. Therefore, it was chosen to create sufficient buffer capacity in the future to make the collection network more resistant to fluctuations in the influx. For the last time, everyone has the right to asylum. People can register, but reality is what it is. We have over 30,000 shelters. Over 2,000 shelters have been added in recent months. We provide shelter, but the reality is that there is also a high influx of people with Dublin or M status, i.e. people who have shelter in another European country or who have already been recognised as refugees in one country. They have been recognised as refugees in a particular country and then decide to come to Belgium and apply for new asylum here. I accept that today is European law, but I do not accept that it will be tomorrow's system. We need an asylum and migration pact, which also takes this into account. In the meantime, I can only assume that, in an influx such as today, we will provide shelter to asylum seekers who have not asked for reception or asylum and who have not been given bed, bath and bread anywhere, priority groups that I believe are logically composed, and not to persons who can already get bed, bath and bread in another country, or who have already been recognised as refugees and can therefore live there. That is the situation as it is today. And yes, we will also provide shelter to the latter when there are places for it, but everyone is free to disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Our country is clearly in the middle of an asylum crisis. People sleep on the cold streets. However, it is a self-organised crisis and once again shows that the system has completely failed. The taxpayer pays the inexperience and the left-wing naivety cash. Moreover, the court's ruling may lead to a financial hangover for the Belgian State and for Fedasil, as the amount may still amount to 1 million euros per day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u65	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. There are several judgments of the European Court of Justice which have confirmed the right to receive asylum seekers in the Dublin procedure. It is therefore only natural that they too should have the right to asylum and reception. You can continue to say that you are doing everything you can to accommodate those involved, but why do you not activate the LOIs anymore, or why do you not make more extensive use of the OCMW? You have resources to tackle the crisis better, but you choose not to use them. I don't understand why. Is that because of a so-called suction effect that there is no evidence of? The court is certainly clear: fluctuations in numbers are inherent in pardon. You have a result obligation. There is indeed a need for a European dispersal plan, but the absence of it means that you cannot participate in the race to the bottom that is now being organized. I would once again urge you to take action and respect the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, 5 out of 475 undocumented people who took part in the hunger strike last year started a short-term procedure against you to enforce the so-called agreement for regularisation. Since the Foreign Affairs Office has not granted regularisation in a majority of the files, which is to be expected, you would have violated the commitments entered into. On Wednesday 2 February, the case will be brought before the Brussels Court of First Instance. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no................................................................................................................................................................................... How many regularization files of hunger strikers have been handled by the Foreign Office? What decisions were made in these files? How many hunger strikers have started a short-term proceedings? How many hunger strikers do you know they might start such a procedure? What is the position of the hunger strikers in the interim proceedings and how do they justify such a request? How will you defend yourself against this? It is clear that these hunger strikers will not respond to the voluntary return to the country of origin. What concrete actions will you take to bring about the forced return of the hunger strikers whose application was rejected, such as diplomatic sanctions or forced testing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u67	You may submit a written question on the latest state of affairs of the regularisation files, to know which have been served, which have left and in which positive or negative decisions have been taken. At the moment, five hunger strikers have launched a short-term procedure. I do not know if there will be more, perhaps the members of the committee present have more insight into this. The session is scheduled for 2 February. I do not have a glass ball and I cannot therefore say how many such procedures will follow. Maybe other people around here can. The hunger strikers blame me for not keeping my promise. I've certainly kept my promises. I made one great promise, namely that I would have the files dealt with as quickly and as humanly as before. I've done the same effectively. I have ensured a priority treatment, in which people are answered as soon as possible. We're looking at every file as humanly as possible. The inhumane aspect in a regularisation policy would be that someone who decides to proceed to a hunger strike would be treated more flexibly than anyone else. That would be inhumane policy. This would indicate that if people put their lives at risk, we would look at their files differently and more flexibly. That would almost be an invitation to do something like that. If you ask me if I have kept my promises, the answer is certainly yes. My promise to be human, I've certainly kept it. I heard the lawyer in question on the radio say there were possibilities in the past. Then a deal was made once in a while, but now it's different. Now that's wrong. I don't know what happened in the past, but I'm not a politician trying to make a deal here and there under the table. I have always said this very clearly and transparently to everyone I sat around the table with. By the way, there have been a lot of them in the past few months. No, I don't make deals. No, we're not gonna settle this between us and not tell anyone. No, I'm not gonna give them any other treatment. No, I don't do collective regularization. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is that an easy message to deliver? No, it really isn't. It's never obvious to say no to anyone. That's not fun to hear for someone who hopes to stay here. However, migration benefits from rules. This also means that someone who does not comply with the rules must return to the country of origin. For anyone who gets a negative decision, the ICAM procedure will be initiated. You also asked about the forced PCR test. I said in committee last week that we are working hard on this. We hope to be able to land soon, to ensure that the people we can send back certainly do not abuse the covid measures not to return to their country of origin. A pressing policy will be important. One of the most important elements is diplomatic relations. Few countries are involved, they are often about the same nationalities. We hope to make progress in the near future with countries that are not always the best learners in the classroom across Europe in complying with international obligations when it comes to taking back their own nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u68	I wasn't always the best student in the class either, but with the right motivation and the right threat of a number of sanctions, we will certainly be able to bring those North African countries, which are not the best students in the classroom in taking back their illegal or deported subjects, back to the middle of the classroom. In this way, we can ensure that the people who are now given a new opportunity to apply, the hunger strikers whose application is rejected, return to their country of origin voluntarily if they can, but forced if they have to. We are largely in agreement with your approach to the hunger strikers, but then, of course, we need a follow-up. We cannot just say that one application is approved and the other is rejected. If we do not get the people whose applications are rejected back to their country of origin, then there is a problem. That's where the shoe's gonna be. We will certainly submit a written question to receive more information on the first part of my question. Otherwise, I look forward with fear to tomorrow, because it could set a dangerous precedent if an imaginary agreement could be invoked by extreme left-wing activists to put the democratic process, and hence this Parliament and your administrative function, out of play. Invoking an imaginary agreement in court would really be disastrous. I therefore hope that we will be able to prevent this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u69	Jalhay's shelter was the subject of a scandal last year. The center is run by the private operator Svasta and the residents did not get the minimum necessary psychomedical and social support. They were also asked to work outside the center. This is a serious case of exploitation. I quote from Fedasil's internal research: "The research revealed some improvements in the centre without questioning the agreement with Svasta." In a press release, Fedasil implicitly confirms the problems by referring to difficulties during the start-up of the center. Fedasil states that no community service was subsequently performed outside the centre of Jalhay. It calls for staff to be strengthened 7 days a day at 7 and for allowance rates and Community services to be adjusted. Svasta must also organise activities for the residents of the centre, especially for the children, and improve information to the residents. Mr Secretary of State, were sanctions also linked to the shortcomings? What does Fedasil do to ensure that his requests are followed up on the spot? The residents have indicated that the medical situation has improved since the internal investigation. People on the ground at the same time point out that there are still serious deficiencies. For example, there appear to be only two employees per shift, while 50 people have joined. Svasta reportedly passed on a list with the names of 17 employees, but many turned out to be relatives who were not employed in the center. The police had to pick up children from school on 11 June at 7.30 p.m., because parents were very worried. It is reported that services of social assistants were missing at some point and their number has been reduced from six to three. Of the 50 euros that residents receive every week, five euros should be used to pay soap. Residents would also have been asked to sew curtains for another location of the same private operator, and residents were only heard during the internal investigation in the presence of the management of the centre and were appointed by the management himself. What have you done to remedy that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u70	Mrs Daems, a lot has been said about the situation at the shelter. We are not based on the content of press articles, but on the reports of the competent administration, in this case Fedasil, to act against a private partner, fortunately. It is logical that a start-up phase of a reception centre is accompanied by difficulties, but the shortcomings identified in the management of the reception centre in Jalhay during the start-up phase were unacceptable. Fedasil has therefore conducted an extensive investigation and has continued to monitor the remedying of the situation. A standard quality audit was carried out by the Quality Service in March 2021. Following the complaints, an internal investigation was carried out by Fedasil. The region followed closely the implementation of the action plan after the audit and the findings of the internal investigation. This was terminated in November 2021, after the requested improvement actions were completed. Since then, monthly monitoring by Fedasil has been resumed. A letter of formal notice was also drawn up and sent to Svasta on 4 April 2021. Svasta responded to that report on 27 April 2021 and also took steps to remedy the situation. The last monitoring was this month and Fedasil established the following. The staff framework and number of meetings are in accordance with the specifications. Fedasil received no complaints or reports regarding the collection of children at school by the police on 11 June at 7.30 p.m. A transport system has been developed for the schools. Some schools come to pick up the children and there is also a shuttle service through the center. Since the quality audit and the audit report, no community service has taken place outside the centre. The curtains that were mentioned for the site in Jalhay itself. During the internal investigation, the representatives of Fedasil spoke with residents they had appointed in response to the mentioned complaints, and with residents who applied spontaneously. The management of the center was not present at the conversations. The information comes from Fedasil's own monitoring, not the newspaper. As discussed earlier, it is indeed not always obvious to work with private partners, because they refer, of course, to the specifications to always do the minimum. The reception centre has been realized under the public procurement in urgency and on the basis of the lessons learned, tenders will now have to describe in more detail the minimum conditions and provide for a closer follow-up. However, this does not make management easier for Fedasil, which once again shows why cooperation with private actors is not evident in some cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u71	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Once again, there is evidence here that private companies do not belong in the asylum system. You say that Fedasil has done an extensive investigation, yet the people were heard at least. You say the file has been properly followed, but how do you explain the testimonies of the residents? I am not taking that out of the press, Mr Secretary of State, I am getting that from the people of the area. The residents have no reason to lie about this. So I hope you'll take that to heart and get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have already had the opportunity to ask you, last May, about the problem of transmigration in our country. I had thus had the opportunity to refer to the particular and exemplary case of the camp of transmigrants established on the slopes of the E42 motorway at the height of Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, right next to the commune of Crisnée, which is the commune of which I have the pleasure of being the mayor. You told me at the time that, although you did not have the competence as Secretary of State to accommodate these people in an irregular situation of stay, initiatives were taken by your services such as the expansion of Fedasil's Reach Out team or the establishment of the working group on migration and transit within COTER, in collaboration with the police and the prosecutor's office. Today, unfortunately, the situation has worsened, as if nothing had changed. It appears that prostitution networks use the state of weakness and vulnerability of these people to gain illegal profits from the situation. The problem is therefore even wider than the only transmigration and indecent conditions in which these people live. I know you're telling me that it's a matter for the police, for the judiciary, but my question is about transmigration, and here I'm talking about the effects of transmigration. As you also know, civil initiatives are multiplying, but they alone cannot cope with this problem. The security forces confirm that they are distraught with this type of situation. They indicate that they have neither the material nor the legal means to intervene safely, both for themselves and for people in transmigration, as well as for other citizens, including mainly road users. As you also know, local levels are mobilizing, in any case some. This is the case in my commune, since for several years I have made available an old communal house to accommodate transmigrants. It is done so that for reasons of work, this reception is temporarily suspended. Today, I received the answer from my colleague Manu Douette to the Walloon minister, Philippe Henry, who is responsible for the management of motorways. It clearly states that Wallonia is not competent for this type of matter, recalling that migration is a federal jurisdiction, such as the access, stay and removal of foreigners. He also indicated that the authorities were well aware of the situation. Who are the authorities? It remains rather vague. We are also told that we are paying attention to the situation and that we are passing on the information. Mr Minister, today you understand my indignation - I am sure you share it - with regard to the situation of these people, who are in tents, under tarpaulins, on highway slopes, in the sight and knowledge of everyone. I repeat, in the sight and knowledge of everyone! And I'm told there's no solution! My questions are very concrete in relation to what I read from the response of the Walloon minister who has the competence to "owner" of places where these people are currently in total precariousness. Very clearly, what are we doing? Will we be told again that there are meetings, working groups, people trying to drive these people to legal asylum or return? I know that your Reach Out cell is part of better information for people who are in transmigration. But the reality of transmigration is there! It's there, citizens see it every day. And I can't content myself with saying that this is how it is, and we're going to continue to tolerate it. I believe that I am all the more credible to say that I have taken the initiative and the responsibility of welcoming people to my municipality. As I said, if this work had not temporarily suspended this reception, I would continue to do so, while obviously respecting the law. Mr Secretary of State, what are we going to do to effectively stop this phenomenon? Transmigration is a reality in us. We know her. I have heard your answers to my colleagues on a whole series of similar issues. I can hear your willingness to act. But here, in concrete terms, in relation to those people who are now called jungles, what are your actions in the short, medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u73	Mr President, Mr Goffin, the situation of migrants in transit on Belgian territory still challenges me. As I have already said, an expansion of Fedasil's Reach Out team has been achieved recently. Last week, I informed the local authorities about this project in order to put them in contact with Fedasil. The judiciary is particularly important. Emphasis is placed on detecting and dismantling networks of smugglers. Several actions are being taken. There's the police operation. There is a strengthening of cooperation with France. There's Frontex's support for operations. And there is consultation with the European Commission and Frontex, too. As far as the fight against trafficking is concerned, I refer you to the Minister of Justice, with whom I work quite well. To give an idea, there is, for example, the fact that we can now read all the gsm of people. It's an important element, just to know who these smugglers are. It is they that we must first aim at. It is they who are still doing a rather worrying job, which must be fought at all costs. As far as the police and public order are concerned, there is of course also the competent Minister of the Interior. As far as motorway parking is concerned, of course there are the competent ministers of the federated entities who play an important role in relation to this. I think it is important that we continue to guarantee security in our parking lots. More secure our parking lots often has a positive impact on the ground. In addition, the reception places I have created are intended to accommodate asylum seekers. Every person applying for asylum in Belgium is entitled to a reception place in a Fedasil centre. Migrants in transit who refuse to initiate a trip to Belgium are not part of this group. It is for this reason that I want to direct these people to make decisions about their future on the basis of correct information. If migrants in transit seek asylum in Belgium, they are no longer considered to be in transit and will therefore be entitled to receive asylum in Belgium. With the Reach Out team, we guarantee that these people can be well informed. In my view, there must be good cooperation with the local police and the federal police. It is necessary to ensure that these people can be informed and go to the reception and migration network on a more regular basis. I note that the reception of transmigrants has different opinions. Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion, and I understand that some Brussels municipalities choose to guarantee the reception of transmigrants themselves. My concern in this regard is that, knowing that transmigration is a phenomenon that will not end overnight, a bad message will be sent, namely the message that transmigration is facilitated for some people who are resting somewhere but who have the will to reach Britain. These people are putting their lives at risk, and we must avoid this at all costs. Therefore, encouraging or facilitating transmigration is not the best policy to pursue, in my view. We must try to guarantee the reception, and then there is work to be done by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and myself, to ensure that the fight against these smugglers is carried out and to pursue a firm policy towards those who cause problems in our parking lot and in our neighbourhoods, because they put pressure on all migration policy, which is another reason to try to do everything necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u74	Thank you, Secretary of State. I have often heard, also under the previous government, because we were in the same majority, talking about air call in relation to transmigration. Being too welcoming to transmigrants could be the notion of a call for air. Still, there are people in the slopes today. There's something I can't understand. Today, that's how it is, we do it and then, well, they don't need to be there, they just have to apply for asylum. I understand, I share your opinion on the subject. It is not necessary to organize a system that allows smugglers to find a good line to make money in a scandalous way on the backs of these people. However, a state such as ours today can accommodate a situation: people in highway slopes. I can't do it. That's right. You said you just had to ask for asylum! That's right. Others do not intend to do so and are in transit. It was finally the logic that was ours when we opened some places in this old communal house. I guess you've already thought about that notion without having that air call because they're still there. These people are still there! And smugglers continue to make them believe that it is possible to pass through Belgium and to gain easy access to England. So they are there and because most of them are victims of these smugglers, do they have to pay double penalty? I don't think so. I urge that this reflection be taken up. I hear the different levels of being able to say that our country is beautiful, but so complicated and so complicated because of answers that never come because we reject responsibility over others. I'm not saying it's a way to get out of his responsibilities, but it's a reality. Can we not imagine, precisely to draw a transmigrant from the claws of these smugglers with often unqualified behaviour - it is a reality - to grant him a temporary title of two months, for example, and then make a choice, stay and apply for asylum with the conditions that apply to everyone or leave the country? We can't stay insensitive to that, and I'm sure you're not!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-01-definitief-55-commissie-ic681x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55024750C was postponed.
