ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Chair. The meeting was opened at 2.20 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the full record of this meeting or its annex. A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. You can find them on the Chamber's website and in the integral report of this meeting or in its annex. Minister of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Minister of the Federal Government: Pierre-Yves Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 March 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u5	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Stefaan Van Hecke, Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u6	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Senesael, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u7	The present bill has been brought forward in response to the Chovanec case. Along with many colleagues, I felt that Article 23 of the Law of 18 July 1991 was sufficient to inform the disciplinary authorities. However, following hearings in the P&I Advisory Committee, the wish was expressed to add a clarification. I am not, of course, opposed to any clarification, for which I would like to thank the authors. But after reading the opinions, we understood that the bill did not fully meet the requirements. That is why a first amendment was tabled by the proposers. Since the College of Attorneys-General made comments, there was a second amendment which partially met this requirement. A gap was not filled, namely the reference to Article 16. To my question why the referral was removed, despite the advice of the College of Attorneys General, there was no answer in committee. That's why I'm repeating them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal originates from a discussion in the P Committee's advisory committee on the Chovanec case. Colleagues, the operation of the P Committee can be called complex. The Committee is responsible for the Survey Service and is involved in important investigations into cases involving police officers. Then the parole officer or the investigating judge will not call on the local police or the federal police but will give the investigation into the Department of Surveys. That's very good, too. In accordance with Article 23, when the Survey Office finds that disciplinary action may have taken place, it must inform the disciplinary body so that the necessary steps can be taken. We had a discussion on this because we found that the P Committee did not do so in the Chovanec case. What was the argument? On the one hand, it was that one had to guard the secret of the investigation. I fully understand that. On the other hand, according to the interpretation of Article 23 of the P Committee, it was not applicable if the Survey Service was acting on behalf of an investigating judge or a prosecutor, i.e. when conducting a criminal investigation. The committee did not agree. Many colleagues, including myself, found Article 23 clear enough. The Court's legal service also considered in its opinion that Article 23 was sufficiently clear and that a declaration or notification could actually have been made. In order to avoid any future discussion, the initiative has been taken to present this legislative proposal. I believe that everyone agrees with its philosophy. A number of opinions also enabled us to improve the text. Attention has been paid to the secret of the investigation. According to the investigators, there was not such a big problem in this respect, as long as the public prosecutor gave his approval. That is why the amendment seeks to ensure that disciplinary bodies are informed with the consent of the public prosecutor and in the event of a judicial inquiry following consultation of the investigating judge. That is how we could end this discussion. I will answer Mrs Ingels' question. Originally, we would change the first paragraph of Article 23. We didn't do that; we don't touch that. However, we have inserted a second paragraph, specifically on criminal investigations, which makes the issue rightly raised, because it was assumed that it was a question of substitution, not rice. Our text is without prejudice to today's situation; we are simply adding a provision to it. In other words, if the P Committee is involved in a criminal investigation today and finds, for example, that a police officer sends a Hitler greeting or any other fact that disciplinary action can be sanctioned, it must immediately report it, subject to the consent of the prosecutor, if necessary after consulting the investigating judge. In this way the disciplinary process can be initiated and there is no need to wait for the end of the examination of the dossier. I think that will be a good solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Cécile Thibaut, who is no longer in the Chamber today, for her work, just like Mr Dewael, a co-rapporteur, even though it responds to a concern of all the members of the advisory committee. I hope that this has eliminated a very small piece of ambiguity and that it will be easier in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u9	Madam President, Chovanec's death was downright horrible. Even though the investigation is still ongoing, the hearings clearly showed that we need to learn lessons in different areas. The rather limited proposal by colleagues Van Hecke and Dewael already meets that. It obliges the Survey Service to inform the competent disciplinary authority of the existence of a disciplinary error, even if the service carries out its mission in the context of a judicial investigation. Article 23 of the law seemed very clear at first sight, but it was not the case in the Chovanec case. My fellow petitioners indicated that a different legal interpretation was desirable and I welcome that statement. It is also correct that Article 23 should be sufficient in itself. That is our position and that of some other groups. That does not alter the fact that we are satisfied with the amendment tabled. We will therefore be delighted to support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u10	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u11	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) 1985/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1985/5) The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 18 July 1991 on the control of the police and intelligence services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis with regard to the obligation of the Investigation Service of Committee P to inform the competent disciplinary authority of the existence of any disciplinary misconduct when acting in the context of a criminal investigation." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, as regards the obligation for the P Committee's Survey Service to inform the competent disciplinary authorities of the existence of a possible disciplinary error in the event of a criminal investigation.' The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u12	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u13	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open Mrs Vanpeborgh refers as rapporteur to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u14	Madam President, the Minister responsible is not present to discuss this subject, and I still have a few questions to ask. Firstly, the proposal is late. As a reason, the minister in committee once again gave up the corona crisis. I'm beginning to wonder what reasons will be given after the corona era. It is of course easy to open the umbrella of corona each time. A survey of the interest groups of clinical psychologists shows that they are not at all responsible for the corona crisis. A lot of things haven't been settled yet. The problem is that there is no framework at all within which the traineeships should take place, as I indicated in committee. That is why I have many questions for the Minister, who unfortunately is not here. I suppose my questions will therefore remain unanswered, but I shall ask them for the report anyway. There's still no idea how the trainees are going to be paid. According to what baremas would that happen if the employer had to pay the trainees? Does the government have plans to send and support in this? As far as traineeships are concerned, requirements have been set to be met by placements, but funding has not yet been provided for. Are the internships supported by the government? Should the placement not only finance the internship master's time, but also material, computers, additional programs and so on? How does the internship teacher work with the intern? What statute will that intern have? There is no reference in the committee to private practices. Can private practices also apply for an internship? Can the government representative answer these questions? I'm afraid not, because these are rather specific questions. It is very regrettable that the Minister does not bother to defend his proposal in this House and to answer any questions. In committee, the Minister stated that he was still sitting around the negotiating table. How are the negotiations coming along? Which associations and interest groups have started concrete discussions? Who's getting involved? Is there also a conversation planned with the trainees themselves? Unfortunately, this is a measure for nothing. This reminds us once again of the way in which Minister Vandenbroucke works and his contempt for this Parliament. Madam President, I do not know what to do with my questions. I have a lot of questions, but the minister isn't here. They remain unanswered and we will have to vote on this later. Maybe we can still bring the minister in, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u15	As you know, I am absolutely not opposed to organising a debate on Wednesday afternoon when this can avoid night sittings. However, that should not be a reason for the government to...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u16	You are very welcome, let there be no misunderstanding. The intelligence of the minister present is unlikely to be great, but not so great that he masters all the themes, I think. There will be very specific questions today. I've been consulting for a while. At the moment, the Health Committee meets, but the questions there are not addressed to Minister Vandenbroucke, but to Secretary of State Schlitz. That cannot therefore be the reason why the Minister is not present. I would really appreciate the Minister's presence, because otherwise, if there were any argument not to clear the agenda for this House, we would have to revisit the idea of Wednesday's meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u17	We'll contact the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u18	Madam President, since I still have some pertinent questions that were not raised in committee, they came forward later from contacts with the sector, I suggest that the Minister should come here today or tomorrow before we put this proposal to the vote. Otherwise, we will have to vote on matters that we still have a lot of questions about. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u19	Madam President, are we going to continue the discussion or are we waiting for the Minister? Like the Minister, I also have a double booking. I was on the Health Committee with Secretary of State Schlitz. I would like to table two more amendments which really matter. I think it is necessary for the Minister to be able to go through it and to debate it before we proceed to the vote. I suggest we suspend this discussion until the Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u20	Madam President, Minister Vandenbroucke will be here in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u21	Madam President, can we continue the agenda by addressing the following text - let us interrupt this text? We will then take him back in the presence of the minister. Everyone knew we were going to move very quickly, including the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u22	Indeed, the minister is on his way and will be joining us in a few minutes. I do not think it is appropriate to start another text on which we must also express a dozen registrants, which would lead us much further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u23	Madam President, I would like to raise a second problem. Mrs Depoorter is here now. That means that she will not be on the committee when she should be asking her questions in a moment. It is customary for the question to lapse if one is not present in committee. In these circumstances, I would argue that this use should not be used. The bilocation is impossible even in our group. I would ask that this be understood and that Mrs Depoorter be able to ask her question, even if she is not present if the order of the list is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u24	The Committee on Health was contacted to take this into account, so that you can also ask your questions in committee, Mrs Depoorter. Do you wish to speak now or later? Would you like to speak on this text, Mr Bacquelaine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u25	Madam Chair, most of the questions have been asked in committee and, if you want to know the minister's answers, just read the commission's report. Having said that, I do think it is desirable for the minister to be present when a matter concerns him directly in plenary. If I may, I will simply re-establish the context of this bill. The aim is to ensure that the Royal Decree of 26 April 2019, which lays down the criteria for the accreditation of clinical psychologists as well as teachers and internship services, is executable in a way that allows the students in question to be reassured and to know the precise provisions that will be applied to them. Today, however, the implementing provisions of this royal decree of 26 April 2019 are not taken and do not allow to organize effectively the conditions of internship of these students in psychology. This bill makes it possible to postpone the application of this royal decree of April 26, 2019 by one year and allows to reassure the students in psychology, who will be graduated in 2022 and are unable to carry out an internship in good conditions. Indeed, a trainee master can receive four interns, and 940 students are likely to complete their psychology studies in 2022. Internship teachers themselves are not aware of the arrangements that will govern the organisation of these internships. Nor are the financial conditions defined today. This legitimate concern of psychology students had to be removed, and that is the purpose of this bill. That said, this postponement will not be enough for students to know how these internships will be organized in the future. I would like to point out that Minister Valérie Glatigny, in charge of higher education in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, alerted on various occasions, in any case in September and December 2021, the Minister of Public Health to inform him of the concerns of the students and of the need to postpone the application of this royal decree. In fact, that's what we're going to do today and tomorrow. So I think we are in a responsible attitude towards clinical psychology students. The information must be done very quickly. The minister will obviously have to - and this is probably the meaning of the questions that will be asked and put to him in committee and to which he has already replied - ensure that the information to these students is given as soon as possible, not only as regards the postponement of the text - they will certainly learn it and that is so much better - but also as regards the postponement of the deadline. Specific information will be required on the modalities for the implementation of internships in the future. Internship teachers must also be able to know exactly how these internships can be organised and the financial conditions, in particular, for the organisation of these internships. These are the elements that I wanted to recall today by welcoming the fact that we were delaying the entry into force of this royal decree of 26 April 2019 laying down the criteria for the accreditation of clinical psychologists, so that the students are reassured with regard to their immediate future. Indeed, I recall that these are students 2021-2022. So they're going to be out next June or September. It is therefore urgent to reassure them with regard to the conditions of the internships and how these internships, for students who are enrolled in previous years, will be organised in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u26	Madam President, Minister, thank you for being here, because I would like to go through a few more things with you on this draft law concerning the professional internship for clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics. The students concerned did not really have any clarity as to whether they should go through this professional internship. For those particular students, the internship is changed. It is good, Minister, that you solve this problem. In the spring we had already asked a question about this, because we received a lot of worried e-mails from students who didn't really see it anymore that on top of their studies very often they were working students and would still be a professional internship. In addition, funding and organisation were not regulated for these traineeships and there are no internships available. That is why it is good that this is taken care of. At the committee meeting, I asked you whether you would have all the students who fall out of this regulation. You replied that you suspected that you had all the students with you. That doesn't seem right now. Several students obtained their bachelor's degree, but did not start their master's programme until later. Between the bachelor and the master they had to work because they are working students. That's not obvious. Apparently, those students just dropped out of the boat. I'm having a hard time with that. These are young people who invest in a bottleneck profession. We all know that we have a huge need for it. I refer to a very topical problem. The incoming Ukrainian refugees must be accompanied. The Flemish government has decided to engage additional psychologists to accompany these refugees. The workshops are there, the cry for help is there. However, the students who are still working on the route and are in uncertainty are threatening to drop out, which would be absolutely a pity. In order to avoid this, we have tabled two more amendments. The aim is to include the students of clinical psychology or orthopedagogy who graduated in the academic year 2020-2021. I would like to read out the text of our amendments: "The clinical psychology students who have completed their studies in clinical psychology, including a professional bachelor's programme or other academic bachelor's programme than psychology, whether or not followed by the corresponding master's programme and a preparatory programme, a shortened course or a link programme which gives access to the master's programme resulting in this diploma required for this health profession and which the master's programme itself began or continued on 1 September 2016 or at the latest during the academic year 2016-2017, are exempted from the professional internship regardless of the academic year during which they graduate in clinical psychology." This is aimed specifically at the students who have had to interrupt their course, Minister. I would ask you to go along with this, so that we do not leave students on the sidelines. Furthermore, Mr Bacquelaine has already referred to it, there is still a difficulty for the professional internship: will there be enough internships? An internship teacher is only allowed to accompany four students. This has now been arranged, but we will have to ensure that all psychology students, thank God, start a lot of students in the training programme today, can go through a well-organised professional internship and that there is a sustainable financing model on the other hand. We will, of course, support the draft law before us. We all know that we need good mental health care. We have noticed this in the corona crisis, and we have noticed that the young people, who are very often distraught and need help, have to be able to get help. The N-VA Group therefore supports the draft law, but would like to make a warm appeal to ensure that no one who has made the effort to reorient themselves towards this study would fall out of the boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u27	Madam President, I am a little sorry that I referred to the written report. I could have anticipated, among other things, Mrs Sneppe. You have some questions for the Minister. The minister's here, he'll be able to answer that. As Mr Bacquelaine said, he has already replied in committee. I read this for a moment: "The Minister acknowledges that there are still some questions about the final internship. The delay of one year has to do with, among other things, the COOVID-19 crisis, but it is also necessary to have proper consultation on how this internship will be organised and on funding." Of course, all your specific questions will be added to that. "There is also a need to clarify the status of the trainee and that consultation is ongoing." I assume that the Minister can now give an up-to-date state of affairs, but your questions and the Minister's answer were included in the report. At that time, however, no more concrete answer could be given. I'm sure that's the case today. For the rest, I would like to emphasise that we, like Mr Depoorter and others, will fully support this bill. It is absolutely necessary to offer these people a solution. We also need and welcome those people in mental health care. I have also noted in the Committee on Health that all the articles there, like the whole draft, were adopted unanimously. That is a very important signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u28	Minister, as announced in committee, we will support this bill. Besides, I had previously asked you about this, since I had met with the students concerned. It was of course essential, in the absence of adequate time arrangements for internships, that our students in clinical psychology and clinical orthopaedagogy be reassured as to the completion of their studies, their diploma and the continuation of their professional involvement in the terribly crucial area of mental health. In the operative part as such, I am very sensitive to the question just raised by my colleague Kathleen Depoorter. This may affect only a small number of students, but it is important to remain fair to all those potentially affected and to avoid any legal weakness in the text. Otherwise, a dual regime would result, so that some would benefit from the application of the law under the April 26, 2019 Order, while others would find themselves trapped in assuming the new regime applicable to internships. This aspect has not been dealt with in committee. Nevertheless, it was highlighted by those concerned. Mr Minister, I think it is worth examining very carefully their situation and, therefore, the amendment proposed by Mrs Depoorter. It would have been interesting to have the advice of the Council of State on this point to examine fairness, respect for young people and to verify that there was no discrimination regime. I think the amendment is smart because it also does not provide for opening the door to this many years that could not be justified. I think it's a good shot. I think it is really worth examining and having a response from your authorities, Minister. Is it not necessary in practice to make this small change? While we are already in plenary session, there is nothing to prevent, if this proves necessary for a number of students - and it is not because they are few that they should not be taken into account - from making this adjustment together. This would not even require a postponement after the Easter holidays. There is nothing to prevent today from referring the text back to committee, voting for this adjustment and returning again today for a vote in plenary. This would therefore not result in any postponement for this bill or for students who need to be reassured. Minister, I would therefore like to support this suggestion, which I believe is important and properly justified. More broadly, I will repeat in a few words what I told you in committee. We are going to have young people who are going to engage in the exercise of their profession by not having benefited from this probationary period. However, everything about health care is learned, yes, in part in the books, but it is learned above all and always in contact with patients. I reiterate the proposal I made to you that these students have a list of references of clinician psychologists already installed and clinician orthopedagogues that they might possibly ask if they find themselves facing a more difficult clinical situation. This would allow them to have another look. It is sometimes necessary to make a diagnosis, accompaniment or therapeutic follow-up for a patient. That's the suggestion I made to you in committee. Finally, as arrangements have now been made, the last point is of course to ensure, for the students who will graduate from 2022 to 2023, that at that time there will be enough traineeships. However, this issue remains largely open and unsolved - I do not accuse anyone of this - and care must be taken at an early stage to resolve it on two aspects. On the one hand, are the current criteria of trainee teachers relevant and do they not lead to the impracticability of this famous royal decree, i.e. in practice the impracticability of having sufficient traineeships for the young people concerned? If that is the case, that is not the case. It may therefore be necessary to review the criteria at the level of trainee teachers. On the other hand, we need to make sure they're in place. What, beyond the criteria, are contacts, organizations at the federal level but also at the level of the federated entities? Perhaps a process should be put in place that makes it easier to have more psychologists and clinician orthopedagogues embarking on this important mission as a trainee. This is a major issue both for our young students, our young graduates concerned but also, of course, for the quality of patient care. We will vote for this text, but I will carefully follow the fate of the proposed amendment for the adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u29	Madam President, I should like briefly to repeat Mrs Vanpeborgh's intervention. Of course, we have approved all the articles, assuming that all the students involved were included. We have done our research, as Mrs Fonck said just now, and we have encountered a problem that we are presenting here today. Minister, whatever happens, the most important thing is for the problem to be dealt with. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u30	Madam President, Minister, I assume you will not have followed the live stream on your way here. So I will ask my questions again. Mrs Vanpeborgh, some questions have indeed already been asked in committee. However, it is not because questions have been asked in committee that they should not be repeated. New insights may have emerged, negotiations may be in progress or they may already be over. That's why I want to ask these questions again. Mr Bacquelaine, I have read the report. I have noticed that you are also repeating your statement in full here in committee. So I wouldn't point the finger at other Members while you're doing the same. Minister, I have a few questions. I've questioned the clinical psychologists' interest group. They noted that the delay was not due at all to the corona pandemic. It's their word against yours, of course. They admitted, however, that a great deal still needs to be done on the financial front, which you also admitted in committee. However, I would like to add a few more accents or nuances through my questions. Do the internships have to be paid? If this is expected of the employer, what baremas will it have to do? Will the government be steering or supporting in this respect? Will funding also be provided for example to compensate the internships for their time but also for the material, computers and additional programs they will need? How does the internship teacher work with the intern? How will all this happen in concrete terms? Mrs Vanpeborgh, I have another question that I am sure she was not asked in committee. Can private practices also be used as an internship? What about the clinical psychologists in the first line who can offer professional internships, how will they be protected? Another pertinent question is whether the internship can ask clients who join a professional internship. These are questions that I did not ask in committee, but which were raised by a moving insight, including after the questioning of the interest group. In the meantime, we're more than a week away. Minister, where are we on these negotiations? Can you tell us more about that? Which associations or interest groups have you had discussions with in the meantime? Who's getting involved? Are the interns involved, too? Have you had any conversations with them, or is it still on schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u31	Madam President, allow me first to apologize for my late arrival. Nevertheless, I think I have heard the most important interventions. It is necessary to inform the authorities of the higher education concerned and the psychologists clinicians, this is very important. In this connection, I am in direct contact with my colleague Valérie Glatigny, who is responsible for higher education. I have already informed her that the draft has been voted on in committee and she was delighted. I will inform her that the draft is now being voted on because she is looking forward to that. That is one of the reasons – that is not the main reason – for which I prefer not to accept amendments now. I prefer to vote on the draft as it is, and perhaps then come back to possible problems. Information is extremely important. Then, as everyone has said, we must now ensure that things are well prepared for those who come out in 2022-2023. This requires close consultation with the sector to ensure that there are enough traineeships. But there is also a whole debate on organisation, funding, etc. I would like to apologise to Mrs Gitta Vanpeborg because I do not have much more concrete information to add at the moment. I'm sorry to disappoint you on this, but I haven't really made any progress except perhaps on two points. Mrs Depoorter, I have submitted your amendment to the administration. My administration, however, is proposing not to accept this now. The reasoning is the following. What we do is relatively simple. We had built in a transition period for those who started this study at a time when they couldn't know that there was an internship obligation. That is the simple motivation and rule that has ensured that students who started before a certain date are not subject to this obligation. We add those who graduate now because we're not ready. That's not discriminatory. My administration's worried. Now adding elements that threaten to lead to a case-by-case approach will raise more problems and raise questions regarding equal treatment. The question is: when did someone knowingly and willingly decide to interrupt and when did someone have to interrupt? It's not that simple. I'm not closed to come back to this, but my administration has asked me to wait. She doesn't think this is obvious. She doesn't think this is discriminatory. That's obvious. I would add a political aspect to that. My colleague is impatient, Mrs Glatigny is waiting for that. Mrs Fonck, I have given some thought to your suggestion made in committee. You said that, unfortunately, there is now a generation that comes out and for which nothing is foreseen. It's a bit binary: job placements are not ready, and those who are going to enter the labour market this year are nothing like this. I therefore contacted the National Institute of Disability Health Insurance (INAMI) on the basis of your suggestion, to see if, through an INAMI agreement, we could try to organise and supervise the aspects of supervision. In the front-line care we want to develop, for example, we could create opportunities for young people to find an initial experience and an insertion path that is still qualifying, but without entering into the formal logic of an internship. I don't promise you that a Fonck scheme will come into being, but who knows? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you to approve this now so that we can publish it. After all, it is relatively simple and waiting for it. I do indeed owe you more debate. Firstly, on the way in which we are going to fill this out and apply it in reality. There is Mrs Fonck's idea regarding those who are now graduating. Can we do something or not? I'll look into it, but I won't promise anything. At least it's an interesting suggestion. Secondly, there is the problem raised by Mrs Depoorter. Are people wrong to fall between the loopholes of the network and, without causing any new discrimination, can they also be exempted? We have to look at that too. However, I would like us to approve it today so that we can publish it as it is. We can then come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u32	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your support. The argument of discrimination must indeed be examined. That is why our group believes that the amendment should go to the Council of State for investigation. Then we can continue the discussion. We will approve it today because we fully understand the need. It's a good thing it's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u33	Madam President, Minister, Mr Vanpeborgh, you are surprised that the questions are repeated, but if there is no answer to the questions, they are obliged to repeat them. I therefore ask you once again, Minister. What will happen to private practices? Will they be able to do the same? Or is that still part of your meeting? I would have liked to have had more explanation about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u34	I'm not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I fully understand that, as far as operationalisation is concerned, not everything can be answered in concrete terms today. It is indeed important that it be approved. A number of questions on the table still need to be answered, especially as regards operationalisation. I remember very well from the debate in committee that there is a particular concern about the number of internships and the number of recognized internships. I'm sure this will be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u36	Minister, your answer was not so clear. Can't you answer or don't you want to answer? If you turn on your microphone, your answer can also be recorded and I can understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u37	Sometimes falling will and can be together. You should think about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I believe that my colleague has returned to the Health Committee. Perhaps she could turn her interesting remarks into a bill she would ex officio send to the Council of State. The situation of potentially affected students should be examined. We could then vote on the text, after the administration has examined it. If corrections are to be made, Minister, it is important to remain open so that all students are considered in a fair manner. As for the part relating to the Convention, you are talking about supervision. For my part, I would eventually talk about a reference. It doesn't matter, because we see the meaning we want to give it. I thank you for taking it into consideration to see what can be done for the benefit of the young people concerned, the patients, but also public health. Indeed, when young graduates find themselves alone in their clinical practice, they may sometimes be discouraged. We also need to work on the medium and long term to keep them in clinical practice. Perhaps this will not compensate for the internship, but they will be able to obtain, in any case, a reference in difficult or more delicate circumstances. I thank you for moving things forward, as we believe it is not only possible, but also useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u39	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u40	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2529/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2529/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u41	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u42	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nahima Lanjri
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u43	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u44	Madam President, I refer to the written report of the second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u45	Madam President, Minister, the fight against discrimination in the labour market is a legitimate one. There is no discussion on the agenda. However, the consensus ends here as well. The fact that the fight against discrimination in the labour market is a legitimate struggle has already been translated into legislation in this hemisphere a few years ago, which, under certain conditions, allowed practical tests to be carried out on the labour market. The principle of subsidiarity was very strongly upheld. This means that before practical tests can be carried out on the labour market, all other research techniques must be exhausted before the final step, that ultimate means, can be used. This bill completely reverses that principle. The draft law sees the discrimination test, this practical test, as the starting point of an investigation rather than as an ultimate means of investigating discrimination. This makes this law a law that violates fundamental rights, including the principle of equality. That is not what the parties on the opposition banks claim, but what the Council of State says. You have tried to remedy this in the explanatory statement. Unfortunately, the Council of State has devoted no less than two pages to stating that the justification of a number of cases does contain fundamental problems, including the fact that criminal offences are no longer punishable, which is not without significance, especially in relation to the special detection methods. You'll miss that festively. That is a first particularly bad point. Secondly, if the practical tests are seen as the starting point of a study, without even a great deal of conditions being attached to it in order to be able to take that step, we will open up the possibility of a witch hunt for bona fide employers. That is also very bad. Thirdly, this type of legislation makes the employment of those groups that you claim to want to protect against discrimination even more difficult. An employer with a little common sense will think twice or three times before making an open vacancy with this kind of legislation. If you take practical tests as a starting point, you end up on a fishing expedition. Then one goes fishing with very large nets that have very small meshes, and at the end of the day one sees what the catch of the day is. A great deal of this catch will have to be discarded, but in the meantime all these poor little fish have been taken carelessly. That's what you do here with the employers. You will burden a lot of employers with misery, costs and time they have to spend on practical tests, for which there really is no concrete reason. Today, the regulation states that a number of conditions must be met cumulatively before these practical tests can be carried out. First of all, there must be a complaint. That makes sense to me. Secondly, there must be an objective indication. Thirdly, there must also be evidence from data mining or data matching. What happens to this bill? It's all gonna be either, or, or... There shall be either a complaint or an objective indication or it shall be sufficient to conclude, on the basis of cross-data, that practical tests are appropriate. That means that a complaint is not even necessary anymore. This means, in the facts, that no more victims are needed to carry out practical tests. A so-called objective indication is sufficient. Then the next question is what is an objective clue. We are not the only ones asking us this question, the Council of State has asked itself that question. There is no definition of an objective indication in this draft law, a number of examples are illustrated. The example quoted by the government is that one has to imagine a shop where only young salesmen work. This is an objective indication of discrimination, which means that it is sufficient to carry out practical tests. Then I ask myself the following question: what if only young ladies apply for jobs in that store? Is this employer supposed to show that only young ladies have applied? How can an employer prove that no old gray man has applied? How can this employer prove his innocence? Everything is turned around, the world upside down. Where one is normally innocent until proven guilty, one is apparently guilty here until proven guilty. Just following on from the example that the government itself has cited, imagine that store with only young salesmen. I was wondering when preparing for the meeting in committee how well a lingerie shop would run where a 58-year-old man would recommend the last new set before taking the measure. You are laughing, Minister, but that is what you are putting forward with this bill. I asked a number of ladies who I knew would not be offended by this question. There wasn't a single woman who said, "No problem for me." No lady was excited. However, that is the best protection for a lingerie shop owner not to fall prey to fake applications where he has to spend money and time. I think that's pretty far-reaching, to put it mildly. The first question is: why is it necessary to amend the law? I gave you two opportunities to answer that question, because I also asked for a second reading in committee. If we want to amend certain rules, there must be a good reason for that. If there is a good reason why it should be amended in this way? The answer we get from the government and the majority of the people is: the law is not feasible. What do you mean, I asked? There have been only ten dossiers in recent years in which the practical tests have been carried out. Then I find that the law is enforceable, because there have been dossiers in which practical tests could be applied. So there have been cases where all these cumulative conditions have been met, but it seems that ten are not enough, as was evident from the discussion in committee. However, this seems to me to be a strong indication that the existing legislation is working just fine, especially since in more than 300 cases conciliation has led to a solution. That's the cascade we need before we have to choose that ultimate cure. I have then asked what the obvious is, what study is available to show that there is indeed a need for a legislative amendment. Well, it didn't turn out to be there. So there is really no good reason to change the current rules. There has been no mention of any reason, and yet the misery of employers who are already struggling very hard to fill open vacancies in a good way today, let alone to discriminate. I think they'd take any appropriate profile to fill out the open vacancies. However, this government feels that it should still burden these people with fake applications. However, one more reason was cited on the government banks. It has been argued that there is actually a problem with government databases. The data mining, the data matching, the data exchange, all that doesn't work so well. So the cumulative conditions are incredibly difficult to get fulfilled. That actually means that the government says in so many words: "We are failing and we are failing we are going to blame the citizen." Actually, I don't think that's nice either. I don't think it's right, Minister. There are others who said in committee that this is a very good measure to boost the level of activity. Then my pants went down all the way... luckily I wore braces. Imagine, after two years of sitting still, a first activating measure in the form of fake applications comes from the Croo administration. I think it is rather grotesque to reduce mismatches and labour shortages to a problem of discrimination. That is really not serious, all the more so because in future any legitimate employer with a little common sense will think twice before putting a vacancy on the market. This will therefore cost employment opportunities rather than pay for them. That's very bad. However, if I understand correctly the message from the majority banks in the committee, then this is the first activation measure of the De Croo government. Now, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it is worth considering not doing anything else in our labour market, if this is the only thing you are doing. After all, this does more harm than good. This is a law that starts from the presumption of guilt until the innocence is proven. It's a law that starts from the suspicion of victimisation, unless proven otherwise. This is a law that will make employment opportunities of many groups in our labour market more difficult. This is a law that subject bona fide employers to a lot of misery and a lot of expense for unnecessary fake applications. That is why we have tabled several amendments in committee to remedy them. That is why we are reposing them here today. That is why we will not support the draft law at all, as it is now before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u46	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, discrimination is against the law. Discrimination is stupid. Discrimination makes our society so much poorer because of all the talent that it loses. Above all, discrimination chops firmly into it. Discrimination leaves a very deep mark, it draws lives, it takes away opportunities, it is fundamentally unjust. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that laws are observed. In many areas, we think that is the most normal thing in the world, such as road safety, food safety and the financial world. When it comes to compliance with our anti-discrimination legislation, it seems to some to be much more sensitive. I'll leave it to those who have a hard time explaining it to themselves. I am particularly proud that the fight against discrimination is high on the Vivaldi government's agenda. It is true that the mystery calls, the practical tests or the discrimination tests were introduced by the Swedish coalition. We, as well as civil society and, among other things, Unia, warned at the introduction that the mountain had given birth to a mouse. An unworkable compromise was born. It seemed like people wanted to get rid of it easily. In the press there were some firm statements, some muscle displays, but the legislation laid down a lot of impossible conditions, according to my naughty I in the hope that as few mystery calls as possible would be carried out. Well, not with us, not with this government, not with this majority. We take the fight against discrimination seriously. Mr Anseuw, would you like to interrupt me? It's been a long time...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u47	Mrs Willaert, where the heart is full of it, the mouth is overflowing. You say that you certainly had the impression that the 2018 legislation had the aim of generating as little practical tests as possible. I have absolutely the impression that you are implicitly admitting that this symbol is extremely important to you and that these practical tests and their number are an end in themselves. In no way do you show in your speech to Mr O'Brien, of course, this is not the first argument you have made on this matter, which is why we can absolutely assume that the current legislation is not working. I am very curious to see how you will surprise us today and will show us the obvious evidence that the legislation is not working. I note that practical tests have resulted from the existing legislation, and I note in particular that there have been a lot of mediations that have been sufficient to find a solution. Apparently that's not enough. Apparently, there must be a lot of practical tests to say that there are many practical tests and that discrimination is being addressed, even if this is at the expense of employment opportunities for very many vulnerable groups in our labour market. We don't want to go along with that story. I don't understand why you want to go along with that, why you're looking at that story that way. I'm very curious to see why you're doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u48	Mr Anseeeuw, about ten tests have been carried out since 2018. Older people are 40% less likely to be invited to a job interview. People with a different ethnic background are 34% less likely to be invited to a job interview. So ten tests have been carried out in recent years. Only ten. Following numerous testimonies of discriminated against in the media, for example of workers who were dismissed because customers did not like being served by people with different skin colors, the mysterycalls have been introduced. This is our legislation. Discrimination is against the law. At the end of it, after conciliation, after sensitisation, I have said that in committee too, which we are a big fan of, social inspectors can give a warning, ask for regularisation and impose sanctions. Nothing rules that these social inspectors talk to employers, they often do. There too, mediation remains an option at all times. That's very important to give. The social inspectors themselves asked in an opinion to give up these cumulative values. They want to get to work, but they can't because so many conditions have to be met. Let me give you an example. According to current legislation, there must always be a notification or a complaint first. Do you know how many people who are discriminated against every day are so tired of taking action against them? Do you know what that does to someone? For people who are discriminated against time and time again, this even leads to medical consequences, physical consequences, psychological consequences. I am therefore incredibly proud that we will now support those people to ensure that this can be viewed, for example, on the basis of data mining and data matching, even if no complaint has been made. This data mining and data matching is, by the way, being put on the verge of this government. A diversity group has also been set up to examine in different sectors who is the average person recruited in a sector and what are the exceptions. This is being discussed with the sectors. The current situation is unworkable, the social inspection itself is a party asking to deal with it. It is very important, for example, that it should not be just after a notification or a complaint. It is very important that we do not place the responsibility for detecting discrimination on the victims themselves. Anyone hit by a car next time shouldn't be standing by the side of the road to check all the other cars that break the speed? No, that's what cops do, they make sure people don't drive too fast and people who do get a ticket. Here we need a lock piece. I do not understand why Mr Anseeeuw is having such a hard time with that. Maybe we should just speak plain language. You say that we believe that all employers are guilty in advance. We don't think so at all. After a report, a test may also show that there is no problem of discrimination at all. That's also an option. It is therefore good for the employer if it appears that there is no discrimination but that something else is going on. Minimising discrimination in our society, with all the figures available, with the socio-economic monitoring of Unia, can no longer be done. You are listening selectively in committee, because I have given many reasons why certain groups are having a harder time in the labour market. Of course, it is not just about discrimination, but there are inexplicable differences. I set the example I always give. The largest employment gap is in the case of people with a higher degree. That's terrible, isn't it? People study and put their best foot forward, but at the end of the journey the door of the labour market remains closed. Some parties will then say that these people do not have the right working attitude. Why don't we make sure at the end of the ride we have a final piece that really works? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u49	Mrs Willaert, you are pleading for a final piece, but there is that final piece, which is just the essence of the story today. However, you are making that final part a starting point, that is the major criticism. You're scaring the shit out of a lot of bona fide employees right now. They say: now I can make mistakes here too. It's gonna take me time and money. I think I'll deal with my open vacancies in a different way. The groups you want to protect will make it even more difficult for you in the labour market. If there are certain gaps between certain groups in the labour market, can you not reduce all this to discrimination? Then we're all a big gang of racists. You refer to older people who are struggling in the labour market. May I call on you to be consistent and no longer relax the SWT, as happened last year by relaxing a number of conditions? May I ask you, then, finally to put that out and to abolish it? It is this government that puts far more people on the sidelines than it used to be, pushes them out of our labour market far too early, and takes away a lot of meaning from their lives. I am particularly sorry about that. Can you stop doing that, too? Can we make that appointment, too? Could that also be a piece of your final piece, against discrimination against older people in our labour market? Put your money where your mouth is .
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u50	Mr Anseuw, you must also want to listen. I have just said that this is a very complicated problem, where we need to work on each of these factors, but we also need to work on the fight against discrimination. What improvements are being made? They are major improvements that must make a decisive instrument of the mysterycalls. Those cumbersome cumulative conditions, which could hardly or not be met, are indeed deleted. It shall be either/or, or in the case of objective indications of discrimination or following a substantiated complaint or notification or on the basis of data mining and data matching. As I said just now, there should no longer be a complaint or a notification, so that responsibility for detecting discrimination is no longer placed on the victims themselves. It is up to society and the legislator to see to it and not just to the victims who have the courage to complain. The fight against discrimination is a battle for all of us. Martin Luther King said: "In the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends." Mysterycalls that are deployed without needing a notification or complaint show that we as a society are no longer silent, that we as a government take an active role to detect discrimination, that we stand shoulder to shoulder with the victims of discrimination. Moreover, discrimination tests will no longer be a last resort to detect discrimination. They will no longer be used only when all other research methods are exhausted, but they become an equivalent competence that can be used at any time of the investigation when necessary. It is also stated that the social inspectors who use, for example, a false name, signature or diploma or use third parties for that purpose do not commit a criminal offence. Here again the shoe wriggled with the previous version of the mysterycalls, the one sentence that used to be in it and that made it very difficult to do good practice tests. It said that the offences should not be more serious than those for which the detection method is used. This made discrimination tests in many cases de facto impossible because discrimination is only a limited criminal offence. The level of punishment that is based on discrimination is a lot less severe than that for the offences that must necessarily be committed in order to detect discrimination by means of discrimination tests. The one sentence that was in it made it almost impossible to pass discrimination tests. Finally, and very importantly, the social inspection will also be able to use discrimination tests for non-criminally sanctioned forms of discrimination, i.e. no longer just racial and gender discrimination. This discrimination is also prohibited by our legislation, without being punishable by criminal law. The inspection may also call on third parties to imitate concrete practical situations. Everyone understands why that may sometimes be necessary. I would also like to take a look ahead, Minister. After a year, we'll evaluate this. As we have done in the past, we will closely monitor the effective improvement of legislation and have a more effective instrument to detect discrimination. The prior agreement of the employment officer or the procurator of the King is maintained, also at the request of the social inspection itself. That's why I think it's an exaggeration to speak of a fishing expedition. A file must first be drawn up, the employment officer or the King's Attorney must approve it, and all inspectors are sworn officials who know what they are doing. There are a number of thresholds.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u51	It is good that you have a great deal of faith in the inspectors, who are very expert and know what they are doing, but it is our responsibility to make good legislation. The Council of State has made a number of fundamental comments. He said that the principle of equality is being violated and that what is in the pipeline is not entirely in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. What happens, for example, if a bona fide employer has been damaged by unnecessary fake applications? The Council of State has devoted two pages to this and came to the conclusion that it will not even be possible to recover this damage from the government because the government now decides that criminal offences in the context of fake applications that were not found to be necessary are no longer a mistake. Then it becomes particularly difficult, or almost impossible, to have damage caused by the government repaired. Of course, you don't give a shit. You don't give a shit. That much is clear. However, if it is almost impossible to carry out practical tests with existing regulations, then it is too small of course. Can you be consistent there too, rather than working with two sizes and two weights? Can we finally ensure that the bill does not make it virtually impossible for bona fide employers who have suffered damage in order to recover that damage from the government? This is a case of two sizes and two weights.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u52	Mr Anseuw, I would first like to ask you not to put words in my mouth: 'I don't care, I don't care'. It's still up to me to assess what's important to me and what's not. You shouldn't do that for me. In committee, I had the impression that it was a deaf man's conversation. I was not present at the second reading, but I read the report completely. An explanatory memorandum to a legislative text still has a value, which are debates to which reference can be made. Mr Dermagne, you were absent, but your colleague, Mrs Lalieux, has made it very clear that it is still possible to appeal and obtain compensation. I saw that this was said again at second reading. It's literally in the explanatory statement. Mr Anseuw, the things we say here have value. There is a debate that can be referred to. It is well explained in the explanatory statement, but you must want to see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u53	It's just that part of the explanatory statement that the Council of State says is bullshit. You can't just put that next to you. You think you are above everything, here in Parliament, even above the constitution. That's not true. That is precisely what my intervention is about, in particular, that document from the explanatory memorandum which the Council of State says: 'This is bullshit'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fine piece of paper legislation, but enough people and resources will also be needed to ensure that it can be implemented. We will continue to monitor this. Steps have been taken, additional inspectors have been recruited, Minister. We have also understood that there is, in any case, continuous training, but that people will also be further trained in this context. Sometimes there are quantitative performance requirements in the social inspection. It is therefore important to ensure that there is also room to deal with the difficult dossiers so that one does not just pick the layer of fruit. I think it's important to say this again. I also think that putting the data mining and the data matching at an end is very important. You will work with Unia, with the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, with regional employment services. Data mining and data matching can provide a wealth of information about facts where there are no problems, but can also trigger an alarm signal. Colleagues, mystery calls are not an end in themselves, unlike the words that are put into my mouth. We do not want to punish to punish, no one gets better. We do not simply want to confront people with their bias. For us, it is important that society evolves towards a more inclusive, fair society where everyone gets opportunities because we know that this is just and that it will benefit all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u55	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with my group, we obviously fully support this project, which at last gives the social inspectors room for manoeuvre to carry out tests of discrimination. In fact, we had tabled a bill to include, regulate and encourage the use of situational tests in the three anti-discrimination laws in order to combat discrimination more effectively by setting a specific framework for them. We are in 2022 and it is really intolerable that foreigners, like many Belgians of foreign origin, still find it very difficult to find a job. It is an infringement of their fundamental rights. As we said earlier, Unia reminds us every year in its monitoring, for more than ten years, that people of foreign origin, and particularly Afrodescendants, are the first victims of discrimination in employment, but also in housing. Last October, it is not very far away, Unia stressed that it takes twice as much time for young people of Maghreb or sub-Saharan origin who have graduated from higher education to obtain a first job, compared with young people of Belgian origin of the same level of diploma. Here, we see that origin is still a factor of discrimination in our country. I am also aware that the fight against discrimination is far beyond the competence of the Minister for Labour. Beyond the intentional discrimination of unscrupulous employers, it is a question of fighting widely against prejudices and stereotypes, which are already in themselves a barrier to access to employment, but also of making everyone aware of the negative representations that our society still has towards people of foreign origin. According to a 2017 study by the King Baudouin Foundation, the unemployment rate of Afrodescendants is four times higher than the Belgian average, while 60% of them are graduates of higher education. Why are these graduates struggling more than others to find a job up to their degree? This employment problem must be addressed in order to ensure that all citizens of this country have equal opportunities in the workplace. I think that here, with this project, we already have very concrete measures in the fight against discrimination in employment. I and my group, at least, are very happy about that. But we also look forward with great interest to the plan to combat racism of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Sarah Schlitz, which has been called for, notably by the UN, for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u56	Madam President, one of the purple-green government's intentions was to start a witch hunt for alleged discrimination by employers in the labour market. In the recent employment deal, too, this was one of the most important elements for different parties around the table. I do not know enough about the Walloon labour market and I cannot make any statements about it, but in Flanders, with the massive search for suitable workers and servants, that is a negligible issue. In the Flemish companies production is slowed down by the lack of workers. Growth is dampened by the shortage of skilled labour. There an employer really does not distinguish between candidates on the basis of their origin. Being prepared for work, having the right attitudes, knowing our language and having the right skills are elements that are important. Indeed, there is often a mismatch between supply and demand, as stated in the NAR's opinion. There are certainly differences in the employment rate between, for example, immigrants and natives, but these can often be reduced to a wrong work attitude, a lack of knowledge of Dutch and too poor qualifications, not to mention the narrowing gap between the minimum wage and the living wage, so that it is not even worth working for some of the hard-to-achieve population. Minister Dermagne and his associates always assume that some population groups are discriminated against by malicious employers in recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u57	Mr Verreyt, Mrs Willaert is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u58	Mr Verreyt, I would like to respond to what you have to say about the work attitude. Firstly, I have already referred to this in committee, because I find it very eloquent. The socio-economic monitoring of Unia, in collaboration with the FOD, has repeatedly shown that the effectiveness gap between people with a migration background and people without a migration background in our country is greatest among those with a higher degree. Secondly, socio-economic monitoring provides interesting data. Graduates with or without migration background sometimes apply for jobs where there is not always the same one-on-one relationship between the diploma and the job. That doesn't really seem to be a problem for people without migration roots. However, people with migration roots should almost always have the right degree in order to be able to apply for a position and get the job as well. Still, the numbers of people with migration roots are lower than those of the others, even if they have the right degree. What do you think is the explanation for that? The Socio-economic Monitoring clearly shows that there are unexplained differences. The differences cannot be explained by, for example, a difference in educational attainment, because they are all higher-skilled. You are talking about work attitude, but how do you explain that difference in the labour market? Why is that rift right there the biggest? It is a death-killer to say that it is up to the training, for example. It is often the same, but the figures speak for themselves. How do you explain that??
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u59	Thank you for your question, but I could also reverse it. I could ask the same question: why, for example, are certain groups overrepresented in crime figures? Why do certain sections of the population have more social housing? So we can reverse that question. In Flanders, unemployment is between 3% and 4%. This figure is close to the figure needed to ensure a certain mobility in the labour market. With an unemployment rate of 3 to 4%, anyone who wants and can work is at work. I realise that unemployment in general, and among young people and a number of other categories, is much higher in Brussels and Wallonia. However, with an unemployment rate of between 3% and 4% in Flanders, there is no real problem if these three conditions are met. I'm moving on. By definition, as there is, of course, little evidence available, the few rotten apples that have been there since the introduction of the current legislation by the Swedish Government have been grabbed and tackled. I therefore understand the frustration of the left-wing parties that the mystery calls announced with many bells and bells, the informant system introduced by the previous government, after years of commitment has hardly produced significant results, because the problem is not present or is only very marginal. Instead of drawing the only and correct conclusion and abolishing the useless and pointless mystery calls, this government is turning the screws even more on the Flemish employers, just because the existing legislation led to little or no results. Despite the tens of millions of euros of subsidies received annually by many professional racist hunters, there is hardly any result. The opinions of, among others, the Council of State, the NAR and the Advisory Council of Social Criminal Law are critical to very critical. The aim is to address the discriminatory nature of employers by giving additional powers to the Labour Inspectorate to greatly increase the burden of proof, because the 2018 idea to conduct the investigation through data matching and data mining has come to a halt. Will the social inspectors now be allowed to commit criminal offences to almost literally trap companies? It's about using fake names, fictitious resumes, false diplomas, false signatures and fake IDs. In other words, these inspectors can commit criminal offences and set up a fictional world. A metaversion of reality will be used as evidence to drag employers to court. The fact that these investigations themselves should not create discriminatory practices is an expression that cannot be refuted afterwards and a real provocation. If this is approved, the social inspectors in these investigations will soon be allowed even more than the police inspectors involved in the special detection methods. The BOM legislation will soon be stricter for police detectives than for citizens in this legislation. The special detection methods are used for the detection of heavy banditism. This is about possible discrimination. It is a problem that, even in civil law terms, the services, and therefore the Belgian State, cannot be held liable for the damage caused by these investigations by completely bona fide employers. A real problem, which the Council of State and the National Labour Council, or the NAR, rightly cited, is that all of this tends towards a fishing expedition and that is forbidden. Objective indications should therefore be available so that an investigation can be started. But there aren't any. It is also requested that a framework be developed at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office for transparency and predictability. The opinion of the social partners is also sought. I'll give it to you for what it's worth, if it's ever done. It is now said that this can and will only happen after a prior agreement between the employment officer and the King's Attorney. The actions carried out must also always be proportionate to the purpose in question. This is supported by the NAR in order to slow down the self-willed performances of cowboys within the labour inspection. There must be objective indications. This is far too broad an interpretation for the Flemish interest. It must also be done after a substantiated complaint or notification. Those who miss out on the fact that he or she missed a job can file a complaint. That can be completely anonymous. The name should not even be mentioned in the criminal record. As a blow to the flames, social inspectors may also call on third parties to help them. Those are civilians who snitch, sue or trap civilians. This type of practice also existed in the GDR, with the D of democratic. The Stasi was perhaps a useful and praised institution in that regime. Perhaps there are still fans of that regime in this room. However, we do not have any justification for this. The Council of State has made a number of very pertinent comments. The changes to the justification for justice mean that the civil infringement can no longer be regarded as an error and that the Belgian State can no longer be held liable for the damage caused by it. The Council of State doubts whether this is consistent with Article 1, the first protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights and with the constitutional principle of equality. Nor does the opinion of the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law seem to always be followed. This is, of course, problematic, because this creates legal uncertainty. The National Labour Council has managed to formulate an opinion on this issue. He rightly points out that certain sections of the population are lagging behind in society, but that this has to do with a mismatch between supply and demand. Without saying it in so many words, they also regret the specific endorsement of employers. The NAR also warns of an undesirable side effect, with excessive requests for documents at a job application stage, so that some job seekers will be deterred. One will create a society of suspicion, as is the case in the best totalitarian states. A government that works in this way loses all credibility with its subjects and slides to a totalitarian state. The employer therefore no longer has the right to take whomever he wants after the adoption of this law. The Social Criminal Court Advisory Council is also very critical of the phishing method introduced. A number of comments had also been made by the Council of State. He also saw a legal problem in the use of citizens in the investigative acts, because the ECHR and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights contained a ban on provocation. This proposal therefore provides a legal basis for the witch hunt for employers. Bound in the law one can now create a metaworld to make it even more difficult for employers. The vagueness of the definition, the possible very broad interpretation, the suspicion of, the government uses everything that is prohibited by law and the boundary between what is and what is not permissible is largely exceeded for us. This legislation is part of the dismantling of the most basic principles, which are also enshrined in the ECHR and in our own Constitution, but for this government it only has the value of a piece of paper. This is not really about discrimination for us. This proposal is about freedom, a sacred good for the Flemish Interest. It's about the freedom to hire whoever you want. As a freedom-loving party, we are therefore fundamentally opposed to the design of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u60	Karima or Karina, two women with the same university degree and two years of work experience, are looking for a job. There is only one letter of difference in their name, but Karima will still have 50 % less chance than Karina if she applies. One letter makes a world of difference. It shouldn't be. One faces prejudice and gets no or less opportunities, the other gets those opportunities. Unfortunately, this is still a harsh reality in our country. Discrimination occurs not only in the labour market, but also in many other areas of life. People face prejudice and discrimination when looking for a home, at school, at work, but also on the street or in the sports association. People are treated differently not only on the basis of their origin or their name, but also on the basis of age, disability, sexual orientation, faith and health status. In recent years, this led to more than 600 reports from Unia about discrimination in recruitment. In that domain alone, we are talking about 600 notifications a year. I am therefore pleased that we can discuss this draft law today, which will make it possible to use practical tests in the labour market more effectively and thus to tackle discrimination. It is true that practical tests are not entirely new. They were introduced into the previous legislature. It was already quite a job to take that step and there were a lot of cumulative conditions. At that point, it was all that was possible. I had warned at that time that we were putting the thresholds too high. At that time, I obtained that the evaluation was registered in the law. The inspectors themselves have reported that they are experiencing too many thresholds and barriers. That's why an adjustment was needed. Like other colleagues, I did not wait for that and drafted a legislative proposal myself, more than a year ago. I would also have put this forward as a priority because I believe that we should not waste time in the event of discrimination, which is why I considered this a priority proposal. I put it on the agenda, we held hearings and debates and we tabled amendments together. More than a year ago, we were almost ready to approve the proposal. Unfortunately, you then drew the dossier to you, Minister, which unfortunately left the draft law waiting for more than a year. I note that the draft before us is very similar to my proposal. That is in itself very positive. I can't be happier than seeing there are so many similarities. It is only a pity, like the other Members, that we have lost another year. We would have preferred to have approved this together within the Vivaldimiester majority as early as 2021. However, so be it. Our group will vote in favour of the draft law tomorrow because it will ensure that we are given firmer tools to tackle discrimination in the labour market. The practical tests, which already existed, should no longer necessarily be supported by data mining. There were three cumulative conditions: there had to be a complaint or notification of discrimination; there had to be an objective indication of discrimination and there had to be data matching and mining, with results showing discrimination. Cumulated was therefore impossible. At the moment, our public services do not seem to be able to provide a basis through data mining for any possible situation of discrimination in the labour market. By registering now in the law that it is either a complaint or an objective indication or based on objective results of data matching, inspectors are given the opportunity to carry out those practical tests. It is, of course, up to the judge himself to judge on the basis of those evidence. It is not up to the administration or inspectors to decide whether or not there is discrimination. This is done purely in order to obtain evidence, which is the most difficult in the case of discrimination. In addition, social inspectors can now also call on third parties to carry out the practical tests. That's very important. The inspection services cannot have every possible profile in the house either. They are many, but it is nevertheless important to have someone with the right profile apply for a particular job or to be able to get someone with the right knowledge before applying. For example, sometimes a written procedure is already provided for in an application procedure, where the applicant must have technical baggage. In that case, it is good that inspectors can also call on third parties, experts and people from the field, who have the right profile or can answer the questions, in order to carry out a good practice test. It also reduces the workload of social inspectors, which also allows better treatment of complaints received. Colleagues, these practical tests are a very important tool for ensuring equal treatment in the labour market and for at least tackling or suing any form of discrimination. We cannot afford to take a different approach. The labour market urgently needs workers. We cannot afford to allow talented, experienced and qualified people to be lost to the labour market, purely and solely through prejudice or discrimination. The government must continue to invest in data mining as it can determine whether problems arise in certain sectors or companies. If it is found that there are no older people in certain sectors or companies, then it is possible to check whether this is normal or abnormal. That does not necessarily point to discrimination, but it does give rise to an examination of the case. This obviously requires a more global approach to discrimination in all areas of life. Of course, other ministers and policy levels are responsible for this. Only if discrimination is tackled at every policy level, both in terms of education, culture, sport, leisure, health care and housing, can the discrimination which exists by law but in practice be combated. Therefore, CD&V primarily chooses to focus on prevention, because prevention is always better than cure sensitisation and mediation if possible. Judicial sanctions will have to follow if it turns out that someone in East India remains deaf and continues to discriminate despite the sensitisation and mediation. With effective practical tests alone, we will not completely eliminate discrimination, but we will take a very important step towards an inclusive society or at least an inclusive labour market. We shall therefore be happy to vote in favour of the draft law tomorrow. I am glad that the Vivaldi parties have worked together to bring it to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u61	Mrs Lanjri, you are quite right to say that we cannot afford to leave any talent unused, especially with the current cut on the labour market. Do you really think employers don't know that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u62	Mr Anseuw, I did not say that either. You shouldn't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u63	I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u64	We note that, despite the tight labour market, there are still employers who discriminate. Not every employer discriminates, luckily and fortunately most also see that they need to recruit people for their talents and that they should not stare blindly at their colour, origin or age. However, there are cases of discrimination. Perhaps we should go to Unia together and look at the 600 complaints for discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u65	Now that's an objective value gauge!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u66	Maybe we should talk to these people and then you'll know what that means. I talked about 50 percent, but I didn't invent those numbers. They're from college. I spoke of 50% based on the difference between Karima and Karina. If Karima happens to be from black Africa, it's 90 percent. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u67	So you are actually saying that employers are not smart enough to know that they have to use every talent available in today's tight labour market. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u68	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week was the international day against racism. Many city centres and cities have taken action. In the preparations for these actions we have heard many stories, testimonies that I have not heard much here today, not from the right. That's what I call Houssin's testimony, a personal comrade of mine, by the way. He was a forklift driver for 14 years and received an excellent evaluation from his employer each year. He was one of the employees at the closure of Ford Genk and the supply companies. From that reality, he went to apply. He didn't apply as Jan, he applied as Houssin. The logistics sector is asking for employees and Limburg is currently one of the logistics mekkas. Still, you don't want to know how many applications Houssin had to do. His neighbor, who is called Jan, also applied, although he didn't have a forklift license. Yet Jan was immediately allowed to have a conversation and he was immediately hired. The example I quoted is reality, but fortunately it is absolutely not a general one. It's weird, though, that I also got a testimony from Said. Everyone remembers that six weeks ago, the Action in Maasmechelen was in the news. The unions were tired of it there in the end. Of anyone who applied with a headscarf or with a wrong last name, the papers just disappeared into the trash basket. They're not stories, they're pure reality. Several of you may know an employee who has heard from an employer that he does not want anyone of ethnic origin. Many interim companies take responsibility and say that this cannot be done, that it is not legally permitted, that this cannot be demanded. However, some interim companies are looking for loopholes not to go wrong, to make that employer happy. The employer is happy with the employees, but of course the interim agency is happy with them, because that makes money from the employer's company. As you know, I've been a union man at Ford Genk for 25 years. This was the first company to have incorporated the anti-discrimination clause into the labour regulations in 1992. I was very proud of that. I thought we finally had a weapon to fight things. Ford was not known for not taking on strangers, because Ford had 78 different nationalities within the company at some point. The strange thing about the story, however, was that these were all workers. In lower management, in higher management, with the factory directors and so on, I have never seen Ford employ anyone who had a nationality other than a European one in 50 years. Worse still, that was even the case with the women. That has lasted until the last few years that Ford was open. Fortunately, we had a syndical power that could counter that. We fought it very hard, but we did not have a legal basis that we could fall back on. Luckily, in 2017, the famous law made practical tests and mysterycalls possible. I have to tell you, we were very happy when that law came through. However, we ran very quickly with our noses against the wall. The reality was that that law was drafted in such a way that it was almost unworkable. We have heard it today, if the social inspectors wanted approval for a check, the reality was that if they were reprimanded, they would have a higher fine than the company that might be convicted. Many of these social inspectors then decided to keep their hands off them. That just wasn't workable anymore. My colleague Maria Vindevoghel has requested the figures from the Minister of Work, Pierre-Yves Dermagne. It appears that there were 40 files by 2020, of which five were eventually stopped. So, what's going on? No mystery calls have been performed. Zero! Not one, zero! Were you working on it? Forget it! The threshold remains far too high. We will support this bill, and I cannot put it more clearly. One last threshold that we would have liked to have disappeared is the approval of the employment officer or the King's prosecutor. Many inspection services should not take that step. I made enough calls to Ford back then, inspectors, security inspectors, and you name it. I was just making a phone call and they were there. What's with the middle step? I asked the question, and it turns out to be an administrative matter. I understand the inspectors because they want to cover their own asses. Is it not our first priority, however, to protect the people on the floor effectively? I believe that this may prevent the effective application of the discrimination test. We will evaluate this after a year, and I am sure we will remind you of that. Not only do we have that concern. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men also notes it in its opinion. I can say that Mrs Lanjri also had reservations about it in committee. We tried to amend this twice, but that was voted down twice. It's always bumped into a njet. The reason, as has already been said, remains the administrative whole. Too bad, that's a missed opportunity. Eventually, we could improve this. The conclusion for us is clear, it is a positive change compared to the original law, but not all thresholds have been removed in order to be able to actively and efficiently use practical tests to combat discrimination in the labour market. Minister, I hope I can congratulate you within a year, but I think there are still some obstacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u69	Minister, discrimination in the labour market is unacceptable. That is a slogan that we have heard very often in committee and which we have heard a few times here today in plenary. That slogan is a statement to me. However, there is one reason why discrimination is included on the one hand in the coalition agreement and on the other hand is also on the agenda today. At a time when there is a shortage in the labour market one might wonder what the problem really is. Many companies do not find the forces they need and are already satisfied when people come to apply. There are also few or no complaints. Then what's the problem? Yet each one of us hears that we cannot deny that stories of people who are not recruited for their ethnic origin, skin colour, limitation, gender, age, political belief or for other reasons. As pointed out at the committee meeting, research carried out by Professor Baert, for example, shows that age and disability are the strongest criteria against which people are discriminated against. Even though it concerns the competences and the talents of the individual, people still find that their competences and talents are often subordinate to other criteria. The impact of this should not be underestimated. In the long run, they become demotivated to get to work. The thresholds are also getting higher when one hits a wall. In addition, people feel inferior. That is precisely the insulting thing about people being discriminated against, that they feel inferior in our society. It shouldn't be. We must also recognise that only a minority of employers discriminate. Discrimination is therefore unacceptable and must be addressed. It is not intended to be a witch hunt for employers, as Mrs Lalieux and you have made clear. Prior to that, there must still be an agreement between the auditor or the King's Attorney. There must certainly be no entrapment and there must be proportionality. We must not overlook those three important elements. At the heart of the matter, as agreed under the Swedish coalition, remains. Yes, the social inspection can, of course, carry out discrimination tests. Yes, she is allowed to commit offences, such as for someone with a different gender, ethnic background or age. Yes, there must be objective evidence of discrimination, complaint or data mining and matching. It is therefore certainly not about discrimination tests in the wild, although they are often portrayed as such. Yes, they must first have the permission of the employment officer or the King's Attorney. No, there must be no entrapment. And no, the discrimination test should not be used when it is disproportionate to other ways of detecting or establishing discrimination. So there's a lot of stuff going on. In conversations you still see how difficult it is for people who were discriminated against to take the step back to work. Minister, we support this bill. It ensures that the social inspection can actually carry out meaningful discrimination tests. This was also meant in 2018 by the then majority. We all have the same objectives, then and now. Discrimination is unacceptable, but unfortunately it still exists. The guarantees that were written in the law at the time to ensure that mysterycalls or mysteryshoppers are deployed in a responsible manner are maintained. I hope that any form of discrimination can be dealt with properly on the basis of this new draft law which we fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u70	Mrs De Jonge, I have listened very carefully to your speech. You have explained in great detail that practical tests must not be used in an inappropriate manner, especially in an inappropriate manner. You said when you didn't think you could and shouldn't. The question is, of course, when can it be done? One of the situations in which it can be done is in the case of an objective indication. And just that is particularly flou described in this bill. The Council of State says that it is not clear at all what that means. So I would like to hear you say when it is not all right, but I think it will be empty words in the wind, because the provision in the bill which states when it is allowed is so vaguely defined that it can almost always be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u71	I have one more question for you. I am sure that you are undoubtedly very keen on the entrepreneurs. The present draft law considerably reduces the threshold for practical tests. That is the intention of this draft law, because there are too few practical tests. This means that the nets used to fish are increasing and the meshes are getting smaller and smaller, so that there will be far more undersized catches. This means that many entrepreneurs will suffer damage, without any real reason. The Council of State says it will be virtually impossible to recover that damage from the government. I would like to know from you how this can be done in an easy way. I assume that you want to make this happen in the most easy way for those entrepreneurs. Is one working with a simple online form that they have to fill out or how exactly does it work? In what way can the damage be recovered from the government when an entrepreneur claims to have become the subject of practical tests and have suffered damage because he has had to invest time and money in them? I'd like to hear that from you, Mrs. De Jonge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u72	Mr Anseuw, I think you're pulling it a little bit on bottles. An entrepreneur who does not discriminate should not feel addressed either. That's where everything starts. It is also important to stress that these discrimination tests are not simply applied. There must still be an agreement from the labour inspector and the King's Attorney. Mr Anseuw, it is not my custom to bring in other people, but it is Mrs Demir who introduced this law in the previous legislature. It pointed out to the previous majorities that there is no law to deal with this. Mrs Demir said in a response that she would for the first time provide a structural approach with self-regulation and practical tests. Do I have to conclude that you're tearing down her policy now? It claims that discrimination in the labour market needs to be addressed. That's what's being done. It is now found that this law still does not work and that many people are slipping through the loopholes and are discriminated against for a different origin, a different color or another reason. These people are demotivated and often do not enter the labour market. Mr Anseuw, I will ask you a counter-question. Are you in favour of discrimination in the labour market, which is still there every day? We are talking about ten or four tests, two of which were examined and showed that no discrimination was applied. Those are the numbers. Yet we hear every day that people are discriminated against. Mr Anseuw, are you against discrimination in the labour market? If so, then this law is the basis for dealing with it properly. For me, it remains important for an employment auditor or a prosecutor to determine when the tests can be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u73	Mrs De Jonge, yes, I am against discrimination in the labour market and, no, I am certainly not defeating the policy that deals with discrimination in a good way. I didn't say I was losing the 2018 law either, so you shouldn't try to give that impression. The question is why legislation needs to be adapted. You say the law doesn't work. In the first reading, in the second reading and in the plenary, I invited everyone who claims to do so to give me the evidence of that. Nobody even had two ministers, one at first reading and one at second reading. I'm open to that, Mrs. De Jonge, but they're not coming. There are only claims, but you can say whatever you want. I have been asking you and other members of the majority for weeks to support these claims, so that we speak with knowledge. You support a claim, but that is not a fact. It was a good try, but it didn't work. So my question remains: how can a bona fide employer who has incurred costs? Surely I should not convince you that time is money and thus has suffered damage through practical tests, which easily stories damage the government? After all, she did make a mistake. Should he fill out an online form or follow an incredibly complicated legal procedure? Tell me, Mrs. De Jonge. I think it is the second and the question is then whether the balance in this area is not completely lost. That's what it's about. Apparently, the warm heart that you carry on the entrepreneurs who create jobs in our country is firmly cooling. I note that there are no more liberals in our country. That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u74	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u75	Mrs De Block, Mrs Lanjri is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u76	I'd like to join Mrs. De Jonge. Mr Anseuw, first of all, it is true that we made a resolution in the previous legislature to tackle discrimination in the labour market. That was an initiative by Mr Van Quickenborne, Mrs Demir, Mr Clarinval and myself. That resolution was also adopted with the support of the opposition at the time, which is now part of the majority and was widely supported in Parliament. Your party was also involved in this. We still had some problems with naming: the word 'practical tests' should not be included. They had to be targeted checks, but the start was there, with that resolution. We then urged the government to do something about this. Kris Peeters then came up with the bill on the practical tests "the mysterycalls." They're here now. We found all five, including Mrs Demir, that it took too long and that the minister needed to speed up. Eventually, that law was introduced. We then decided to try, even though that law was not heaven on earth, and to follow the record. That is what we are saying today, Mr Dermagne. Some colleagues have also said that they will follow it up and check whether these tests are working. The tests didn't work properly. When we presented the legislative proposals of Mrs Kitir and myself, in the summer of 2020, there were opinions from, among other things, the social inspection, which stated that the system did not work because of the problem of data mining and data matching, for example. The reports and evaluations exist. All you have to do is consult them. Maybe we shouldn't just go to Unia together, but have a coffee together to see that. Apparently, you missed all that. You are on this committee in this legislature, but you have not seen these things. I repeat, no one claims that everyone discriminates. Those who do not discriminate have nothing to fear. If there is discrimination, there must already be an objective indication, a complaint or dataming to ask the inspection to carry out a practical test, which not many people will do, because many do not dare. The inspection will then have to seek permission from the labour inspector, who will in some cases agree to this and in others will reject the question, because the file is not sufficiently substantiated. Some of the applications will therefore be rejected. In the cases that are allowed, checks will be carried out within a strict legal framework. The employer will not be suddenly convicted, because that is the task of the judge. There is then only a file on which the judge must rule. If that's not heavy enough, Mr Anseuw, then I don't remember either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u77	Mrs Lanjri, if there was a change cup for answering next to the issue, you would have won it today. No one in the hemisphere is questioning discrimination in the labour market. No one's questioning that, neither am I. I am left with the pressing question only when we amend the existing legislation, which is the objective evidence that it is indeed necessary to adapt it in the sense that it is now being adapted. You refer to reports from mainly interested parties. That is something other than objective analysis of data. Apparently, they're very difficult to explain. I have given three opportunities here in plenary and at first and second readings. But nothing's gonna happen. These objective data analyses could have been put on the table a long time ago, but they are not coming. Mrs Lanjri, Mrs De Jonge, so I can only conclude that there are none. That's evidence from the absurd. If we find that an objective indication is sufficient to carry out practical tests and to entrust entrepreneurs with the work, time and misery they have to spend on practical tests and fake applications, the treatment of which takes as much time for the employer as a real application, then there must be a good reason for that. Apparently, no one can provide that objective evidence. I am therefore asking myself questions about the present legislative amendment. That does not mean that I dispute that there is discrimination in the labour market. I'm just asking why the law needs to be changed. If the law is amended and there are employers who have to spend time, effort and expense on it, although they are bona fide and right in their shoes, how can they recover the damage? The Council of State states that they cannot do so in any way. I'm asking you how. You cannot answer it because you know very well that there will be legal proceedings from the entrepreneurs against Father State. I have heard speakers here explain that they are so tired of people being discriminated against and that there is no work to be done to complain about this. Therefore, a complaint is no longer necessary for them. However, employers who are right in their shoes would also become despondent. They may also decide that they will save themselves the costs and the effort. The difference is that a citizen who wishes to sue must pay the procedure out of his own pocket. A government does that with someone else's money. Do you know whose money it is? She does that with that citizen's money. That is why I am asking my question, Mrs De Jonge. You're not answering it. Well, that's as clear as it gets.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u78	Mr Anseeeuw, you have tabled amendments to this bill: an amendment to make a number of amendments and all the following to delete about all the provisions of this bill. You also want to delete the provision that inspectors should not commit infringements for which the penalty is more severe than the penalty imposed on them. I have a simple question on this: why should that provision be removed for you? That one sentence makes sure that these inspectors can do almost nothing. They can't use any other photo. They can't use another name. They can't use another diploma. This means that the social inspection must be a cross-section of all possible people in our country, with all the possible characteristics that exist and which are contained in our anti-discrimination legislation. Otherwise, there's nothing they can do. That phrase shouldn't be in front of us, but it should be in front of you. I read that you do not take the fight against discrimination so seriously. You also blame us for thinking that all employers are people who discriminate. However, the fact that you are so afraid makes me suspect that you think so. We don't think so. For us, there is no problem for all those employers who are of good will. It's about the few who do. It is about the figures that we are talking about here. It's about the testimonies we've given here. You do not think that we are answering, but I would like to know why that one sentence of yours must necessarily remain in it. This makes it virtually impossible for the social inspection to implement the 2018 legislation. I do not think that Parliament is intended to adopt legislation that cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u79	What I am so sorry about, Mr Anseeeuw, is that you want to create the perception that we really want to put employers in a position to fight against us with this legislation. Mr Anseuw, almost all of us in committee have said that discrimination is unacceptable. It's about the individual. It's about the individual's talents. It's about the individual's competences. It's not about skin colour, ethnicity, gender. I think it is totally wrong for you to say that this legislation will ensure that almost every employer will be put at a cost because he or she must be afraid to recruit people and be attacked by the discrimination tests. That's not the point. The two ministers have said the same thing. It is not the intention to pursue a witch hunt for those entrepreneurs and those companies. So stop creating the perception that we want to fight the employers against us. That is not the case at all. We only want discrimination to be dealt with and it to be dealt with hard when companies are guilty of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u80	Mrs De Jonge, you say that it is not the intention to open a witch hunt for entrepreneurs. I should hope so. The question remains, then, why do you want to make it possible with this legislation? That's what's happening here. You say it is not the intention, but you make it possible. Mrs Willaert, you say that it is about a small minority of employers who are guilty of discrimination. In the vast majority of employers, you have the utmost confidence. Then why are you so much more likely that all these bona fide employers have to put time and effort into fake applications that have no added value? To answer your question about that one sentence, do you know why we want to amend it? Because the Council of State says it's in violation of the Constitution. We still think the Constitution is important. We'd like to respect them. Do you know why? Laws serve primarily to protect citizens from the government. With this legislation, citizens are not better protected against the government, on the contrary, they become the object of the government's arbitrariness, piece by piece. That is why we are opposed to this bill. That is why I have tabled several amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u81	I give the floor to Mrs Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u82	I am relieved that we have finally reached this point. After years of statistics and half-hearted attempts, we can finally say that effective and effective practical tests will be carried out on the labour market. We have an ambition to tackle statistics and monitor the application of existing legislation on discrimination. After all, there can still be so many good ideas and intentions and they can be put into legal texts, without control there is no guarantee of their effective implementation. It's similar to traffic. Traffic signs and warning signs can continue to be placed, but if no one checks their compliance, hard-class offenders will never be fined for offences that endanger not only themselves but others as well. The same principle applies to workers who do not have opportunities in the labour market, while they have the same interest and everyone wins if they put the right man or woman in the right place, on the basis of their talents. It strengthens employees, colleagues, companies, our labour market and the economy. The steps we are taking today improve the existing practice tests. We shouldn't be getting silly about this. They didn't work because barely 10 files were opened in 3 years. Everyone in the hemisphere, except for a few exceptions perhaps, knows stories of people who got the lid on the nose because of their skin color, their non-Flemish sounding name, their age or their disability. I do not need to repeat the figures, several colleagues have already done so, we all know them. Several research institutes, including Unia, have been making us fall back on hard statistics for years. Behind those statistics are people, with personal stories. They start with dreams and motivation, which are eventually smothered in the bud. I'd like to bring up some of those personal stories. I quote Fons, who, after a restructuring, couldn't find a job. He tried very hard, his wife was still working and his kids were still going to school. He became completely demotivated, but eventually he found his refuge in volunteering, where he received appreciation, as everyone needs appreciation. I also know Fatima, who has a master's degree in chemistry. Every time he asks me what more she has to do or can do. Even with her higher degree she is refused at any conversation. She doesn't even get a chance to explain her motivation. Kim, a friend of mine, is a young woman with autism who needs an adapted environment to let her talent shine. She always clashes with prejudices, because employers think they might be dealing with the new Rain Man, who can only rattle phone books. They prefer not to have such a burden in their company. Why were there hardly any tests carried out? The conditions were far too strict, the thresholds were far too high. Discrimination, which some face every day, works on the mind. Anyone who is discriminated against feels inferior and is therefore not ready to complain. Furthermore, discrimination tests were limited to racism and sexism, while in practice, for example, people with disabilities or older jobseekers are also sent on walks without any vision of the future. For them, for Fons, for Fatima, for Kim, but also for the social inspectors, on whose question we are discussing this legislation, for all the people behind the statistics all people have dreams and hope that they can live up to their chances. Today we are really moving forward in the fight against discrimination. We have incredibly much talent in our society and we must stop wasting it. The draft law removes the obstacles and the excessively high thresholds, so that inspection services can play a shorter role on the ball. Inspection services are also protected so that they can actually carry out those practical tests and there will be an extension to all grounds of discrimination. Finally, I would like to thank my former colleague here in Parliament and now Minister, Mrs Kitir. She has been throwing herself into that file since 2015 to make progress in this regard. I am incredibly happy and incredibly proud that it is with her government that we will finally be able to show results. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote for this draft law with great enthusiasm. Of course, we must always be vigilant. I look forward to the evaluation next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u83	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had hoped that an issue as important as the whole challenge of social inclusion would have allowed us not to fall into a political-political debate. After hearing the last hour and a half of debates, I think it's missed. Anyway! Let's try to move forward and maybe get a little higher. Some rightly pointed out in their interventions the particularly disturbing figures of discrimination on the labour market in Belgium. I'm not gonna take them back here. You said it. Indeed, these figures can and should be highlighted. In the background, they are the reflection, excuse me for the expression, for the existence of left behind. It seems to me that not doing leftovers is an objective that must really be imposed on us, whatever the party, whatever the function held at the societal level. This must lead us to act, with the aim of reducing poverty and combating social exclusion. Creating a more inclusive labour market is part of this. There is a whole series of other policies. Fighting discrimination, Minister, is also only one part of creating a more inclusive labour market. There are clearly many other actions to take, which are partly directly in your skills. We share the objectives of the bill before us. However, I have a few thoughts to put to you in relation to the draft as such, and to the debate that is taking place here in plenary. My first point is that there is good, but I think there is also at least good in your bill. This has also been pointed out by some bodies - in particular the existence of a risk of perverse effects. Thus, for example, the National Labour Council points out in its opinion that it is necessary to ensure that the application of the situation tests does not lead to an unwanted effect for the target group for which the measures are taken. In particular, the ad hoc use of false CVs in the case of a situation test authorised by the labour auditor could result in companies becoming more formalistic for the future, in the recruitment process, for example by systematically requiring a copy of the diploma, or assuming that it is a fictitious application if, for example, the applicant is not found on the Internet. If we want to do well, let us finally be careful not to further curb the dynamics of social inclusion, in this case inclusion in the labour market. The second point, Mr Minister, if I may, is that we must give ourselves the means of its policy or, in any case, the means of its objectives. In this regard, the discrimination tests as made possible in the bill will take a lot of time and preparation upstream by the social inspectors. Let's recognize him! You may say that you have made commitments, I see the reality on the ground, I hear them, I listen to them and we know that the social inspectors are largely overwhelmed and "sub-staffed". The issue is, therefore, what you are really going to do so that your project is not just a good intention, but an efficient lever against the scourge of discrimination in the workplace. If I were to summarize my point, it would be to say that we fully share your objectives. It's already a good thing. But we fear that your project will not change things in practice. It seems particularly important to us not to fall into the trap of a front bill. One element that I would like to stress is that, in substance, you have not given yourself numerical targets to achieve. And when you don't give yourself numerical goals, it's often indicative of a form of weakness. A bill is one thing, but what it gives on the ground is often something else! We will support this bill. You will therefore benefit, Mr Minister, from a support which I will call "sceptic" but we have a hope that we will be deceived and that our scepticism will be denied by a truly proactive implementation of your project, by means - I have said but I repeat - at the height of the stakes; for it is true that these discriminations in hiring undermine the living together by flouting the dignity of their victims, which only worsens their situation of exclusion. That was my conclusion, but I still allow myself a little supplementary word, because we talk a lot this afternoon about the pile side. For my part, I would also like to highlight the face side. Indeed, there are many companies that are constantly trying to move forward on the issue of social inclusion, in this case on the labour market. This is not the case for all companies. It is sufficient to recall the figures mentioned earlier. But yes, many companies are taking initiatives to allow hirings that will make them more inclusive. These actions would deserve to be highlighted as good practices to multiply in order to advance our society positively and collectively. I wanted, Madam President, to highlight this side of business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u84	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Défi will obviously support this bill, as we generally support all projects aimed at combating discrimination and especially when it comes to access to employment. The objective aim here is to improve the effectiveness of existing legislation by tackling its weak point, namely the burden of proof of discriminatory behaviour. This is an important issue. We must succeed because a society with less discrimination is in the interests of all, even those who discriminate. It is therefore worthwhile to raise awareness, convince and monitor, before the need arises to punish employers not only for the good of the discriminated against, but also for the employers themselves, because discrimination reduces their chances of meeting motivated candidates who are likely to meet their expectations, especially in the case of labour shortages. The bill that is being put to our vote today proposes a useful cost of thumb. But I would still like to mention three regrets, minister. First of all, I regret the lack of consultation with the Regions. It is true that they are competent only for "employment" while the federal mandate is much broader in terms of employment. But the Brussels Region has been a pioneer in the fight against discrimination both in Belgium and in Europe. We note, moreover, that the text originally tabled at the federal level is largely based on that carried out in 2017 by the Brussels Minister of Employment, Didier Gossuin, with a view to establishing a testing system. Of course, we do not ask for any copyright. His successor, Bernard Clerfayt, continues and completes the same action. It has recently transmitted 15 commitments to the social partners to combat discrimination in hiring, which have commonalities with your project. The aim of this plan is to better identify discrimination, in particular through a monitoring of diversity, to develop a sectoral approach through a plan to raise awareness and train recruiters in private employment agencies, to introduce a diversity plan in large Brussels-based companies with more than 250 workers and, for public operators, to improve and simplify the filing and handling of complaints and - this is the clearest common point - to create a specific legal framework for discrimination testing. This proposal meets the same objectives as your bill, minister. It should enable the Regional Employment Inspectorate to conduct proactive tests of discrimination against a particular sector. In order to ensure their legal validity, the Regional Inspectorate will request prior authorisation from the Labour Auditorate on the basis of serious evidence. Inspectors will be able to draw on actors selected from the statutory civil service workers on a voluntary basis and presenting the characteristics of the victims of discrimination. It is therefore a pity that regional employment ministers have not been asked to share their experience in the field and their policy. This may have allowed this project to be placed within a broader framework or even improved. It may also be a missed opportunity to have an overview of the problem and, why not, to move towards a national plan to combat discrimination in recruitment, including, for example, preventive measures. I am thinking, for example, of the Unia recommendation for the creation of a corps of inspectors specialising in this field, which could be complemented by the actions of the federated entities. Second regret: several criticisms expressed in the opinions received, including that of the Council of State, are not met. For example, I am concerned about the possibility of redress in the employer's head. The legal aspects have been discussed at length in committee by a number of colleagues, and I will not go back to that, simply I stress the need for an evaluation of the implementation of the law. This brings me to the third and final regret: the provision originally provided for in the bill tabled by Mrs Lanjri has not been included in the draft law on evaluation. Such an evaluation would help to assess its added value and identify a willingness to further improve the scheme. Despite these three small regrets, there is no doubt that this project is moving in the right direction. We will vote in favour of him.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u85	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Members who, during the previous legislature and at the beginning of this legislature, initiated the discussion and reflection on this important issue, in particular Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Willaert, Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr Kitir. I too, Mrs Lanjri, would have liked to go faster. But, as you know, I am attentive to social consultation, which in essence often takes time. Here, the opinion of the National Labour Council was given to me seven months after the request I had made. I would have preferred, like you, to save time or at least not to lose time and to be able to introduce this bill more quickly. Mr Anseuw, we are proposing these changes because we are listening to the experts in this field. Our labour and social inspectors pointed to the weaknesses in the legislation and the difficulties in its application. This is contained in an opinion signed by the president of the FOD WASO. I quote: "The practice shows that due to cumulative conditions, the number of cases where mystery shopping is possible is extremely limited. The use of data mining and data matching is a positive factor in the search for objective indications of discrimination in the various databases. At the moment, the data are very dispersed. Moreover, the system is still in its embryonic phase. Data exploration at the federal level is also limited as there are no centralized data on the pre-contractual phase. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate Control of social laws does not have direct access to statistical tools and must therefore go through other services such as ONSS. Other practical problems arise to isolate specific target groups such as pregnant women, transgender women, people of foreign origin. This is why it seems appropriate to transform the cumulative conditions of mysteryshopping into optional conditions." As I have just said, this is an opinion which was sent to the chairman of the committee, our colleague Leroy, on 29 September 2020, on the basis, in particular, of the bills tabled by a number of Members of this Parliament. This is an explicit opinion given by the inspection services, and therefore by the field experts. The figures attest to this, the number of checks carried out on the basis of the 2018 legislation is particularly low and clearly insufficient. That has been said several times. In 2018 and 2019, only 2 tests were carried out on the basis of 4 dossiers, as only 2 tests had the approval of the Hearing Officer. No tests were carried out in 2020 due to the corona crisis. About 40 cases were initiated, but only 5 cases were selected for discrimination tests due to the restrictive criteria of the law. In 2021 and 2022, due to the health situation and the too stringent criteria of the 2018 law, no checks were carried out. I really think that, on the basis of the opinions given by the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation drawn up on the basis of the feedback from labour inspectors and social inspectors, it was necessary to review this law, relaxing a series of criteria but continuing to regulate the mechanism. Mrs De Jonge repeated the various conditions during this plenary session. Because it is, of course, essential to supervise these tests. I am the first to say that we must set conditions, which are set out in the law. There is an essential prerequisite: it is the prior written authorization of the labour auditor or the King's prosecutor. So all these tests will continue under their control and supervision. I would also point out, Mr Colebunders, that maintaining this authorisation and prior checking was an explicit request from the social inspectors. I now come to an important point, which has been raised several times. I come to the opinion of the Council of State. As you know, Mr Anseeeuw, we have amended our draft law on the basis of that opinion, particularly in the comments on the articles. You have all on numerous occasions received, read, and studied opinions submitted by the legislative section of the Council of State. You know that the terms chosen by this section are precise. When this section gives its opinion on provisions of a bill or a bill, it says so in a clear and precise manner, with this formula: the draft or the provision will have to be fundamentally revised. None of this here. In my view, the legislative section of the Council of State provided a measured, moderate opinion, effectively pointing out certain difficulties, raising or relaying certain issues, including remarks by the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law. A request was made by the legislative section of the Council of State to provide a justification to refute the objections made by the Advisory Council. We have done so in the commentary to the articles, this has been repeated several times in our debates, and I will repeat it here. The commentary to article 3 has been adapted following the opinion of the legislative section of the Council of State, stating that if they – the social inspectors – are only free from any sanction, this means that they are still considered to have committed a criminal offence. In its opinion, the Advisory Council on Social Criminal Law considers that the consequence of this amendment would be that the offence would no longer be considered a fault, even at the civil level. The Government adds that it should be noted that such an amendment does not in any way prevent an employer who has been injured in the course of the implementation of discrimination tests from claiming compensation for his damage on the basis of article 1382 of the Civil Code. In the civil sphere, the State is obliged to make good the damage if it commits a fault in the performance of its duties. Mr Anseeuw, you were asking Mrs De Jonge about how to obtain compensation for damage. Compensation for damage shall be obtained on the basis of the general principles of civil law. Since the famous Flandria judgment of the Court of Cassation in November 1920, civil law has established that the Belgian State was responsible for the compensation for the damage caused by its faults. As is the case in the ordinary law of civil liability, built on article 1382 of the Civil Code, if there is a fault and damage, and a causal link between this fault and that damage, there is an obligation to compensate for the damage caused as a result of the fault committed by the State or its representatives. This possible fault committed by the State, through its social inspectors in the context of situation tests, will indeed have to be remedied, compensated, on the basis of the general principles of civil law which apply in Belgium since the Flandria judgment. I now turn to the consultation with the Regions, raised by Mr. From Smet. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiatives taken by the Brussels Region and its Government at the time, as well as the ministers you rightly mentioned. These are federal competencies, namely, job discrimination tests, but there may be bridges and collaborations with the Regions. Personally, I am particularly committed to it. I'll make sure that's the case. Mrs Fonck, there is indeed no quantified objective, because the aim is not to make figures, but to offer an additional tool to social inspectors and the State in the fight against discrimination in hiring. Ms Lanjri recalled the terrible figures of the number of complaints – more than 600 – brought in last year regarding discrimination in hiring. We propose here the improvement of an existing tool to combat this type of discrimination. Since the scope of discrimination is, of course, much wider, other tools and mechanisms will emerge. I will leave it to my excellent colleagues to present them and defend them in the near future before this House. Of course, it takes men and women to carry out these inspections on the ground. This is the case since we have committed ourselves in the preparation of the 2022 budget to increasing the number of inspection services. The commitment of forty-five inspectors was decided in the context of the 2022 budget. Commitments have been in progress since the beginning of this year. As you know, within the Employment FPS, within the inspection services, we wanted to work with inspectors trained in these issues of discrimination in hiring. In addition, a specific methodology has been drawn up in consultation with Unia and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. I will end by saying that I do not know whether this text is perfect. I believe that it is better than the previous text on the basis of the assessments and feedback that have been transmitted to us and on the basis of the exchanges that have taken place in this Parliament – particularly on the initiative of several Members whom I thanked earlier – the hearings that have taken place, the opinions that have been delivered, the exchanges within our committee or this plenary session. I humbly say it, I don't know if this tool is a perfect tool. That is why we have planned – and that is correct, Mr De Smet, in the explanatory memorandum – an evaluation of the device. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to give you an appointment in a few months' time to carry out this assessment and we will do things in a very transparent manner, as it should be. Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u86	Mr. Secretary, you have actually confirmed my analysis. In other words, you have said that there are no substantive arguments for abandoning the cumulative conditions that must be met for practical tests, but that it is actually a practical matter. The failure of data management at government level makes it necessary to relax. This means that the failure of the government is shifted to the citizen. What can the citizen do that has been damaged by a fake application that should not have happened? As I said myself, that citizen can recover the damage on the government by initiating a time- and money-taking legal procedure against the government, while the government obviously has plenty of time and money to sue its own citizens. At the beginning, that's an unequal battle. In our opinion, the precarious balance to be found is completely lost. That is the essence, which is why we really cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u87	Minister, despite the existing legislation, which has been praised by several colleagues and also by you as Minister, hardly any facts have been found. You yourself mentioned the figures. Instead of being happy and satisfied with the fact that so few cases have been found, that there is so little discrimination, you are simply trying to make the net bigger and narrow the loopholes, with which I shamelessly pick on Mr Anseeeuw's metaphor. I regret your approach. I also regret the ease with which you ignore the fundamental objections of the Council of State. The Council of State referred to a possible violation of the Constitution and the ECHR. For us, that's a big deal. In our view, your actions only show the true intentions behind your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2447/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2447/8) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open The rapporteur was Ms Vanrobaeys who referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u92	Madam President, Minister, the misuse of temporary contracts is a real scourge for workers' rights. Very short-term temporary contracts are particularly common in Belgium, since almost one in four contracts is concluded for a period of less than one month. These temporary contracts favour workers and put them in competition by offering them unstable employment, but also low incomes and no career prospects. Among these workers on temporary contracts, more vulnerable groups are unsurprisingly found. These are, of course, women, young people, workers and nationals outside the European Union. I think that this is really a crucial fight, which my group will continue to carry out with strength. Of course, we will fully support this project, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u93	Madam President, this draft law is a step in the right direction in the fight against the dubious practices of certain employers who are willing to make work ever more flexible and to make maximum savings on the cutting-off of workers in a precarious situation. This is a good thing and we will vote in favour of this ban on combining a normal job with a flexi job in the same company. Besides, I don't understand why such a thing even existed. Nevertheless, we should look at this in a broader perspective and question flexi-jobs as such and the causes and consequences of these precarious jobs. I want to talk first about the causes. What makes an employee who already has a fixed job want to take a second job? Of course, this is mainly the financial aspect because of the low remuneration in business. Too many people, despite a four-fifth relationship, fail to make ends meet and cannot meet their basic needs, such as moving to work or buying food at the end of the month. In recent months, the situation has deteriorated enormously in this respect. People can't go to work anymore. We hear testimonies going through marrow and bone. Some people sleep in their cars near the company. Where are we going? Others sleep with colleagues at home and others are forced to go on sick leave in the absence of other options. That's how far it's come in the 25th richest country in the world. The question of wages, and putting an end to the 1996 law, is therefore more topical than ever. That is why we support the trade unions which are carrying out various actions and have already issued a strike notice before 22 April. We support them under the civil law, which already gave 90,000 signatures. This shows how strong they are. Let's talk about the flexi jobs again. We were talking about the employees, but pensioners can also take a flexi job. Here too, we have to ask ourselves whether this is the society in which we want to live. Do we want someone 70 years old, with a longer career and who's worn out because of work, to come and serve us when we go to the restaurant? Do we want him to unload a truck or put the food in the store racks? Do we really want to go there? Is that what we want for our seniors? It is reported that a society is judged by the way it treats its elderly. Well, in that respect, the flexi-job scheme speaks volumes. It is therefore insecure jobs for a certain time, without career prospects, only to fill the gaps, when a boss needs extra hands, as if employees were malleable at will. This often means that one has to reinvent oneself professionally with all the difficulties and challenges that this entails. At the end of the career one is often exhausted by the decades of hard work and one does not always want to change. Sometimes people are no longer able to do it because they are no longer fit enough. There are also other disadvantages to such jobs. For example, one cannot borrow from the bank due to a lack of stable income or a lack of a future perspective. Their income depends on a phone call from the agency and the goodwill of an employer. Finally, I would like to point out once again the negative effects of flexi jobs on social security. Minister, you know that social security is very important to us. Vivaldi maintains an arrangement of the Michel government, which is even more draining the social security treasury. Instead of decent jobs that contribute to social security, we are dealing with precarious jobs that undermine the financing of social security, with the familiar consequences of this. However, Minister Dermagne recently stated in committee that he does not want precarious jobs. In practice, however, nothing will come of it. We will approve this bill, because it restricts certain abuses, but it does not put an end to the system against which we are opposed and which reflects a sick system. For us, logic must be reversed. We must stop involuntary part-time temporary work, flexi-jobs and the collaborative economy. On the other hand, we must encourage stable jobs with decent wages, with good funding for such important social security. That is the vision we stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u94	Madam President, my name was not on your list, even though I had asked for the right to say a few words about this project. This arrangement closes a hole that allowed abuse in flexi-jobs. While the law forbids the exercise of normal employment and flexi-job for the same employer, some have invented a new way, a solution to circumvent that which consisted of using temporary agencies, which was absolutely not the spirit of the law. This is obviously done at the expense of workers' rights, which, instead of working full time with a normal contract, worked part time with a supplement and reduced rights. Flexi-job is flexible. It is confined to certain sectors and must be exercised in a complementary manner. I'm rather a supporter of employment contract protection. The norm must remain the employment contract, decent wages, social security contributions and a contribution to the community because it is protection. This is what it is about with this status of workers. In the event of a crisis, in the event of a loss of employment, in the event of a concern, it was always the contributions that protected the workers. Mr Minister, you said during our discussions in committee that we should analyse all the devices and how they protect workers according to their status, and I agree with you quite well. Of course we have to do it! It is also necessary to check the paths that make it possible to circumvent the spirit of the law and to check that they can be blocked. That is what we are doing here, and that is why we will obviously support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u95	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u96	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2494/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2494/3) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open Mrs Thémont, reporter, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u99	Madam President, at the request of the employers and employees of the Joint Committee on the Diamond Industry and Commerce, the present draft law abolishes the old legislation of 1938. From now on, the general labour law of 1971 will also apply to workers in the diamond sector. This is, of course, a very good thing, as is the abolition of the register, a relic from a long time ago. The diamond sector has been under very heavy pressure for years. Unfortunately, the labour regime is also responsible for this. This thriving economy has guaranteed very broad employment, but it is now, unfortunately, almost gone. It goes without saying that our group will support the draft law, especially as the application from the diamond sector itself comes. Mr Minister, one small flaw, which I mentioned at the committee meeting, is that the adjustment has been somewhat delayed. Indeed, it had already been mentioned in the annual report of the syndicate of the Belgian diamond industry in 2020. That waiting period is the only downside. As I said, our group will support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u100	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u101	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2547/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2547/3) The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u104	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u105	Thanks. You have the floor for your intervention in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u106	Madam President, Minister, we have already had an opportunity to discuss this draft in committee. It is about the transposition of a European directive. We fully support the aim of the directive, namely that both television programmes and radio programmes are available online to European consumers and that their availability is increased. That makes sense, people are increasingly expecting today to be able to watch or listen to a television programme or radio programme wherever they are. When I was little, FC The Champions was very popular. Everyone stayed home on Saturday night to watch FC The Champions. My children no longer understand that one has to be home at some point to watch a particular television programme. Times have changed and what is ahead is certainly a good evolution. However, there is one important element in the draft law, and also in the directive, which our party cannot agree with, namely the country of origin principle. That might sound a bit like Chinese for the people who don't know what it's about. This means that if a television programme or radio programme is available in one country, where production is also located, it must also be available in all other countries of the European Union. This has far-reaching consequences, including for our Flemish productions. The reason is that there is often a very specific system of funding. For the production of a film or television series, funding is sought, people who want to invest in that series are sought. Of course these people want something in return. In return, exclusive rights are given to sell that film or programme in another Member State. Because of what is now in store, that will no longer be possible. As soon as it is available in one Member State, it will also have to be available in the other Member States, thus repealing those exclusive rights of copyright. We fear that the financing of own productions will be compromised by the present draft law, which will result in more and more productions from countries where a lot of resources are available and therefore productions from smaller regions such as Flanders, where very good series and films are made, I see you nodding, I think we should be proud of that, unfortunately. That is why our group will abstain from voting on this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long, but I wanted to point out two points here. Despite appearances, this project is not simply a technical reform. It strengthens the position of artists vis-à-vis major operators. This compulsory collective management of copyright allows authors to enforce their rights. It rebalances the balance of power since, as we know in particular here, "union makes strength". Another significant element of the project is that regardless of the artist's place in the retransmission channel, the turnover comes from works created by others. These artists are therefore also entitled to fair remuneration. My group will vote unsurprisingly and enthusiastically in favour of this project. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u109	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2377/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2377/6) The bill has 21 clauses. The draft law has 21 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Reuter, referred to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u112	The draft law regulates the matters referred to in articles 74 and 78 of the Constitution. The draft law shall govern matters referred to in Articles 74 and 78 of the Constitution. Pursuant to rule 72.2, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of article 74 of the Constitution are disjunct from the bill. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Rule 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of Article 74 of the Constitution shall be set out in the draft law. We turn to the articles of Bill No. 2379/6 (matter referred to in article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/6) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2379/6 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/6) The title in French has been amended by the committee to "draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 laying down obligations relating to due diligence with regard to the supply chain for Union importers importing tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict or high-risk areas." Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 laying down due diligence obligations in respect of the supply chain for Union importers importing tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict or high-risk areas." The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We turn to the articles of Bill No. 2379/7 (matter referred to in article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/7) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2379/7 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2379/7) The title has been amended by the committee to read: "Bill amending the law of...implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 laying down due diligence obligations in respect of the supply chain for Union importers importing tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict or high-risk areas." The title was amended by the Commission to "draft law amending the law of... implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 laying down obligations of due diligence in the supply chain for Union importers of tin, tungsten and tungsten, the corresponding ores, and gold from conflict and high-risk areas'. The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u115	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Peter Buysrogge, Tomas Roggeman. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (591/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (591/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The reporter, Mr Van Langenhove, is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u116	Colleagues, on 15 March this majority voted away our legislative proposal on this subject, without any justification or justification whatsoever. It's hard for me to believe that. Except for a few exceptions, everyone is in favour of our bill. So I'm assuming there's been a mistake. That is why I am offering this plenary sitting tomorrow the opportunity for a re-launch, namely to adopt this legislative proposal and not to accept the conclusions of the Committee on the Interior. Colleagues, you all know the Laeken Park. This is huge, about 186 hectares, similar to an average Flemish city centre or, for example, the center of Sint-Niklaas. That big green lung is now sealed off for the population. That is a pity, especially when one knows that close to the densely populated canal zone is located. There are many people living without a garden who are looking for green relaxation and recreation opportunities. However, the fences of the park remain closed. Our bill would therefore be a fantastic opportunity. The legal framework for the park is unclear and open to interpretation. Can it be opened or not? Who's gonna decide that? Who should decide on the ownership structure? We wanted to clarify this legislative proposal so that practical arrangements could be made. The domain consists of two zones. The first one is owned by the Government of the Buildings, it concerns the castle itself and the needs surrounding it. The other plots were in the past the personal property of Leopold II. They were transferred to the Belgian State in the gift certificate of 1900. This is later anchored in the 1903 Grant Act. Unlike a number of other domains, there is no provision in the specific provision for the Laeken park that says that the heirs could also enjoy that property. Consequently, our interpretation is that this domain could actually be opened up to the public. That is where we are faced with an interpretation that we wish to clarify. Colleagues, our bill is pragmatic towards the royal family. It is a bill that we thought could be supported. The use of the castle and the belongings is for the royal family. The other plots could be opened to the public. That proposal was therefore not accepted. Unfortunately, this bill was rejected. I think that's a weird thing. The Brussels Government agrees. In Brussels there is a majority in favour of introducing the proposal. In this Parliament, all parties except the MR, if I am not mistaken, are in favour of opening Laeken's park gardens. Then it is surprising that this bill was voted out of this House. This Vivaldi coalition is full of political renewal, open to arguments, listening to each other, giving counter-arguments and so on. If I find that our legislative proposal is voted down in committee without any argument or any element of rebuttal, I find that regrettable. I can only conclude that the political renewal is an empty box. Madam President, I hope that tomorrow this Parliament will prove that I am wrong and that the vote on the legislative proposal in committee will be rejected, in other words, that this plenary will not accept the conclusions of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u117	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip172x.u118	At the author's request, I propose that you refer the following bill (Ms Vanessa Matz) to the Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda: - the bill (Ms Vanessa Matz) to combat excessive leanness in modeling, No. 0057/1. At the request of the applicant, I propose that the following bill be sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda: - the bill (Mrs Vanessa Matz) to counter excessive leanness in the world of models, No. 0057/1 This bill had previously been referred to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 31, 2022, at 2.45 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday, 31 March 2022 at 2.45 p.m.
