ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, the amount of the European envelope for Belgium under the recovery plan is likely to decrease by EUR 1.35 billion for the federal state and the federated entities. We will be set for June, but you have already indicated that it would be a shame if certain projects were abandoned. In the event that Wallonia loses EUR 350 million of this envelope, Mr. Elio Di Rupo recently replied to a Liberal MP who was preparing a dossier to see if a solidarity movement could be envisaged with the federal government. For your part, you have, on several occasions, replied to the Members of this House that the capital compensation by the Regions was, I quote, "a coherent approach" in view of the surpluses generated by economic growth – since it is this growth that would explain a decrease in the envelope – and that there was no reason not to compensate for investment projects. You also announced that you did not want projects to be abandoned for reasons of volume of investment and because they were good projects. Will the federal state commit itself to financing Walloon projects if they cannot be guaranteed by the regional government? If so, will the solidarity of the federal state be expressed in the form of a loan or a gift?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u2	Dear colleague, yes, Belgium will probably receive less than expected, even if the final parameters will be known in June 2022. About 25% of our envelope will be reduced. That is EUR 1.4 billion at the Belgian level. After all, our growth is higher than expected. The first estimates were made at the end of 2020, we are now a fat year later. Growth rates are higher for Belgium. The impact on projects in Wallonia will be about a reduction of EUR 350 million. It is unfair because higher growth has a positive net effect on public finances, but above all at the federal level, not on the finances of the regions. The payback effect will therefore be felt at the federal level. It is also unjust because the higher growth potential in Belgium is an average for the whole country, but the growth potential in Wallonia has been reduced by the impact of floods in the province of Liège. Wallonia has indeed been somewhat punished by the situation. We saw a lot of solidarity after the floods. We have seen many Flemish citizens who were going to help in Wallonia. We haven't seen that at the federal level yet. The situation needs to be looked at. It should be considered whether the federal level can do anything in the context of the reduction of the relance plan envelope. We'll have that conversation in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that this is indeed a wish on your part to go in that direction. It's not just up to you in the federal government. If I read your answer correctly, there is no debate yet. Perhaps you are waiting for the June verdict to put the question back on the table. It would have been interesting to know if the federal government had already considered the matter, but I think not, given your answer and that the discussion would not have taken place yet. I hear that the return effects are for the federal government and not for the regional. We understand and the argument seems valid to me. You referred to the floods. It can be seen that the aid granted was granted through a loan, as little as it could be said of aid. It is not really a form of solidarity to limit itself to a loan in the context of floods! It is hoped that if a gesture is made, it is more in a logic of federalism of solidarity than in a federalism of competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in the past we have had a good debate before, but sometimes I do not understand your statements very well. In plenary, you once said that a public debt of 120 per cent, so to speak, does not have to be a problem. I would now like to comment on statements made by you in the media, in this case in the Il faut qu'on parle programme. You said more or less that we do not pay too much taxes in Belgium. If there is perhaps one thing that many people in this country agree on now, it is that we pay a lot of taxes. The size of the public debt is very high, above 50%. In a comparison worldwide, we have almost the highest taxes. At that time, I couldn't quite place your statement. I understand that this is sensitive in the light of the fiscal reform that will have to be completed by 2024. You say that the value of solidarity must be taken into account. Of course, there is solidarity and it must remain. However, I find the statement that we do not pay too much taxes in Belgium particularly strange. Mr Secretary of State, what is that statement based on? Can you explain that in more detail? Did you use that ruling to express an opinion on your behalf or on behalf of the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, have you listened to the full statement in the programme Il faut qu'on parle? Indeed, I said that it is a fact that Belgium has a high tax burden, but Belgium also has a very unfair tax system, with a high tax on labour. For example, the highest marginal tax rate on labour income is 50%. The effective tax is even higher when account is taken of municipal supplements and social security contributions. Moreover, the productivity of taxes on labour is high in Belgium. The tax burden, especially on labour income in Belgium, is relatively high compared to other countries in Europe. For the other revenue flows, the situation is quite different. Think of the system of commercial vehicles, the absence of taxes on the added value of shares, the low tax on capital income, the different possibilities of reducing or even avoiding inheritance taxes, etc. It is really not because of our beautiful weather that some large French fortunes come to settle on our territory. So we have a system that is very unjust. The comparison between taxes on labour income and other sources of income is a typical Belgian model. So we need to think about this in terms of global tax reforms that increase the fairness of our system. For example, the lack of globalisation of income in relation to taxes needs to be highlighted. Finally, when we talk about taxation, I also think that we should think about why our taxation is useful. Thanks to our taxation, we can pay our teachers, finance our investments, and so on. So every time we talk about taxes, we also have to think about the reason why it is useful for our collective interest. It is a different subject, but an important one. We also need to think about the efficiency of public authorities to ensure that every euro that citizens have given as taxpayers' money is spent efficiently in our general interest. This position is quite consistent with the government's position and the objectives for the global reforms developed by Minister Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have, of course, heard more than just the statement that we do not pay too much taxes. You have indeed said in the programme that the tax system in Belgium is full of holes. I heard that, too. You just said that we in Belgium have an unfair tax system, which is, of course, full of tax dumping. That is, of course, correct. On the other hand, when we talk about fair taxation, we must, of course, also have the courage to look at transfers. You admit that the tax burden is relatively high. That's right. A number of things have to be re-invented. In this sense, of course, fiscal reform will not come too soon. It's just waiting to see if they'll say goodbye to all these tax farewells and sacred houses, like we had in the past. After all, we have already tried to work with tax shifts and the like, and they have not always had the outcome they should have had. When we talk about taxation and taxation, you mentioned it just now, it must have good efficiency, we must also look at the further degreasing of public authorities. The taxes that people pay are not always well used. There's still a lot of work to be done there. It is not just about the tax reform currently under way by your colleague Vincent Van Peteghem, but also, of course, about the degreasing of the governments in this country. There is still much to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u7	Mr Van Lommel, words are important. The word degreasing is a much too strict word to use for our public administration. That is certainly at a time when we see the usefulness of our government. We saw that during the corona crisis. We are witnessing the usefulness of the public authorities in the Ukraine crisis. The state must be efficient, but I will never talk about degreasing. For me, that is a sign of disrespect for our government and the people who work for our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, for the record, I think that the investments that took place during the covid crisis were necessary. At a time like this, the public authorities must make the necessary resources available. However, we cannot ignore the fact that in the past, in better times, the government has spent far more than it needs. It is good that we are now investing, in times of crisis by covid and the situation in Ukraine. I fully support that. But in normal times I think there is still some fat on the soup that can be removed. You saw that degreasing is a wrong word, but I do support that term, because it is true in a number of cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the questions to Vice Prime Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u10	Minister, in recent years our economy has been anything but good times. First we got the covid crisis on our plate, which has deeply affected the people, consumers, businesses and families in the wallet. As a government, we had to do everything in our power to get people and businesses through the crisis. Covid was barely over or the war in Ukraine came to an end. The war in Ukraine may take place on the other side of Europe, but obviously has a major impact on people's purchasing power and on our companies. When we were crawling out of the valley of the covid crisis, we noticed that our companies were being over-questioned. The supply couldn't follow demand. We saw energy prices swing out of control, resulting in very heavy inflation. I have asked you a number of questions about this and I have told you about it. Until the nightly discussions in plenary, I continued to stress the problem of inflation. On the economic front, we see that already high energy prices continue to rise and will remain high for the time being. Linked to this we also see commodity prices that are and will remain high. In view of the economic remonte after the corona crisis, we are now in Flanders with an unemployment which cannot be solved easily, because it has fallen further. All this means that we are at risk of going into an economy that is stagnating, while life is becoming more and more expensive. We are thus entering a stag-flation state, where we have a double effect, namely a stagnant economy coupled with a further decline in people's purchasing power. That is a strengthening effect, in which we should not end up. News in the media, even today, that the current economic situation will hit budgetary figures hard in the future. That's an extra sign on the wall that we're gonna be facing tough times. Last week we received the energy deal, with which the government took a number of temporary measures, although we look forward to continuing high energy prices. Yesterday, during a very interesting hearing in the Committee on Energy, we were told how the energy market works and how energy prices are determined. From this we could see that the coming period will not be so easy. Besides energy, there is also the story of the grain. In Russia and Ukraine, the so-called grain barn forms, on which many countries in Asia depend. But this also works with us. A lot of bakers are calling the alarm because they are now facing higher wheat prices after the rise in energy prices. Even a bread, still a basic product, is likely to be so expensive. What do you estimate the likelihood of stagflation, a stagnant economy with rising energy prices and persistent inflation? One can, of course, refer to automatic wage indexation, as if there were no problem, but if companies pass on the rising wage costs resulting from inflation to the consumer, then there is a major problem in combination with a stagnant economy. Which sectors in Belgium do you think will be most affected by the crisis in Ukraine? What impact do you expect on the consumer? In an international geopolitical context in which we cannot determine everything, are there initiatives to be expected from the government to arm ourselves against this? On the other hand, with regard to budget deficits, we also see signals from Europe. In the end, inflation has become much higher, but debt is also becoming much larger. We have also seen that, in the past period, neighbouring countries have made much faster economic progress compared to Belgium's growth rates. In some Member States of Europe, we even see that economic growth has doubled compared to our growth. So we are actually one of the worse students in the European class. When we put inflation rates against lower economic growth, I am questioning Belgium's competitive position vis-à-vis the other countries. It is quite essential because it largely determines our economy in the years to come. I wonder how you look at that. Our growth is partly driven by the problem of unemployment and the availability of suitable labour in Flanders. I wonder whether the situation regarding unemployment and available labour in Flanders and Wallonia is comparable. Do you see some fundamental differences? Finally, do you envisage measures to make the labour market more flexible and, above all, to further reduce labour costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u11	Mr Minister, before dealing with the consequences of the conflict in Ukraine, it is certainly at least as appropriate to reflect on the misery that the people there have to endure today. We feel the economic consequences of the conflict, but for the people fleeing it is the least of their worries. For them, the greatest concern is to be safe for themselves and with their families and children. I do not want to minimize what these people are going through today with the questions I am going to ask. I think this is a luxury problem for them and the least of their worries. So it is a terrible human conflict, but it also has economic consequences, of course. I would like to ask you a few questions about that. We all know that Russia is an important producer of oil and gas, but also of certain precious metals. Ukraine is an important producer of cereals, among other things, as Mr Van Lommel said. Fortunately, we also have a European grain barn, France. I think we should be happy that France is also a large cereal producer. I have been told that the grain from Ukraine is mainly used for animal feed. Perhaps you could tell us more about that later. It is a fact that there is quite a lot of imports of different goods from both countries. It's being completely dislocated right now. There is great uncertainty about the conflict. How long will it take? How much longer can we do with the supplies? There is also great uncertainty in the financial markets. There is uncertainty among consumers. Consumer confidence is reduced. Everyone is aware of this, and we have already talked about this. This is not only true in terms of consumption. If helicopters used to fly over, they would never have thought about whether something was going on. Unfortunately, that is what we are now doing. I am very much aware that it is very difficult for you to sum up the concrete economic consequences for our country. I'm realistic about that. However, we are already able to determine certain things. The grain prices are rising. Energy prices are getting even higher, and they were already very high. The conflict in Ukraine has only brought them to a higher level. However, there are also problems with other products, which we may be less concerned about. Sunflower oil should be replaced by palm oil, which is detrimental to the climate. Steel has now become a problem. Mr Minister, I have a few questions about this. Firstly, which sectors do you think will be hit hardest by the crisis? I read this morning that you will ask the National Bank to investigate the impact of the war on the various sectors and that you will take action on the basis of that investigation. At what time will that happen? I mean the sooner, the better. Secondly, how do you estimate the further evolution of energy prices, food prices and general consumer prices? Will you, for example, ask the Prize Observatory to keep an eye on that extra? What increases do you take into account? How do you estimate its impact on inflation levels in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u12	Mr Vanden Burre is not here and neither is Mr De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I will come back to questions that are obviously on all lips. The so-called catastrophic health crisis has had an impact on the purchasing power of our citizens, in particular on the price of energy and raw materials. The conflict in Ukraine is in addition to all this. Earlier this month, the IMF was already alerting the world economy to the risks that the crisis would pose. We strongly support the necessary European sanctions. But they will obviously have an impact on the European economy and markets. Energy, first of all. The war will have an impact on energy prices. We often talk about electricity and gas, but sometimes we tend to forget that Russia also generates 10% of world oil production. It's not nothing. All indicators now show that oil prices will remain high, if not very high. We are also talking a lot about gas, because Europe is dependent on Russian gas for 40% of its supply. Alternatives are therefore needed. But we also know that Norway, which is one of the alternatives to gas, already produces 100%. And then there is the price of certain foodstuffs, such as cereals, which are reaching record levels on the European market. This will undeniably be reflected in our supermarkets. As far as sanctions are concerned, they will of course affect trade with Russia, but also the European and global economy. Europe was hoping for a 4% rebound in growth. The European Commissioner has already said that these figures will not be achieved. Maybe a word about import/export. In the first eleven months of 2021, Belgium exported 4.1 billion to Russia – mainly chemicals, machinery, equipment and plastics. Russia is the 17th largest export market for Belgium. During this period, EUR 7 billion of goods were exported from Russia to Belgium. These were mainly minerals and metals. Minister, do you already have more precise figures on the impact of this conflict on our economy? Are there already possible scenarios of solutions for the Belgian market and for the purchasing power of our citizens? Compared to other European countries, do you consider Belgium to be more or less vulnerable? Do you already have figures on the supply of energy and raw materials? And then, I read today in a statement that you asked the Interdepartmental Economic Commission for a list of support measures that have already been taken in more or less similar crises – even though it is difficult to talk about similarity. Have you ever received it? Have you thought about solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this is an important debate, but may I ask you to take account of speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u15	Minister, after the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, the European Union has managed to organise a number of coordinated sanctions. At present, we are at a stage in which individual governments and companies themselves are also taking action. That is a good thing, because that is a way to show a country that starting a war can never be a decision that pays off. Of course, the measures taken also have an impact on our own economy. Representatives of KBC and BNP Paribas expect a Belgian growth slowdown of 1%. The Ukraine crisis seems to increase even further the historical economic uncertainty in which we have become covid. I would like to receive an overview of the economic sanctions that our country has taken under your policy area. Wherever possible, I would also like to have an overview of the measures you are currently putting on the table within the government, both in terms of sanctions and in terms of support measures for the Belgian economy. What strategic raw materials do we depend on Russian imports for? Can we reduce that dependency? Will it be possible to find alternative importers for all those raw materials? As mentioned above, the Ukraine crisis will further increase inflation in the short term. In your view, will this present specific challenges for our country and how will you take them into account in your policies? In addition to the dangers that exist, do you see opportunities for Belgium? Are there, for example, Belgian exporters competing with Russian companies and who are now able to increase their market share? Do you believe that a long-term adjustment of economic plans is necessary? I am thinking, for example, of your intentions regarding strategic autonomy, our relaunch plans and our trade policy, but also of the circular economy action plan, which can reduce the Belgian dependence on exporters of primary raw materials. I'd like to have a reflection on that. Finally, in The New York Times it was claimed that Brussels diplomats advocated a carve-out for the diamond sector in terms of economic sanctions. Is that right? How do you account for this? Are there other sectors that want to safeguard Belgium from economic sanctions and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u16	Mr President, Minister, following the war in Ukraine, the European Union has rightly chosen to react quickly by activating a series of economic sanctions against Russia. We are talking about sanctions such as freezing the assets of certain personalities, disconnecting the SWIFT system for a series of Russian banks or banning exports in certain sectors such as aeronautics. Of course, our thoughts go first and foremost to civilians and the victims of this war in Ukraine. In addition to this firm condemnation of military attacks against Ukraine, it is important to have a clear view of the impact of the conflict on our economy. Minister, could you take a snapshot of the situation of the economic sanctions against Russia? Are there figures on the level of exposure in Belgium compared to other European states? I am thinking in particular of the volume of imports/exports to Russia, the number of companies with trade relations with that country, the percentage of GDP it represents, etc. This conflict already generates some effects, such as rising energy prices, which, unfortunately, raises the risk of new risks such as computer attacks. How do you assess the resilience of our economy? What can be done to address these different challenges? Could you indicate the role of the SPF Economy in terms of monitoring and information to businesses? Finally, are measures being considered to support and support companies affected by sanctions and counter-sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u17	Mr President, Mr Minister, following Russia's illegal and criminal invasion of Ukraine, there are obviously general economic consequences, but also linked to the toughening of economic sanctions against Russia. According to the SPF Economy, exports of goods to Belgium to the Russian Federation amounted to €3.89 billion in 2020. Minister, can you quantify the impact of these sanctions on exports and imports? Are certain sectors of the Belgian economy particularly sensitive to this policy? What about the impact on Russian companies operating in Belgium? As a member of the Central Region, I am thinking in particular of the steelmaker NLMK in La Louvière and Ittre/Clabecq, owned by Russian billionaire Vladimir Lissine and SOGEPA. Does NLMK have imports or exports with Russia? I understand that the semi-finished products come from Russia. How many Belgian companies are present in Russia? Which are the most important and in which sectors are they active? As Minister of Economy, what message do you send to Belgian companies that are active in Russia? What message do you send to Belgian parliamentarians, who are also shareholders of large companies active in Russia, to put this question into practice? I am thinking, for example, in the Brussels Parliament of Alexia Bertrand of the MR, who is a shareholder and administrator of Ackermans & van Haaren, which has two subsidiaries active in Russia. I am thinking of the Walloon Parliament of Nicolas Janssen of the MR, who is a shareholder of UCB, which has a Russian subsidiary. I am thinking in our own Parliament of Christian Leysen of the Open Vld, who is the shareholder of Ahlers, an active logistics company with a large number of offices in Russia and who, out of a thousand workers, employs 600 in Russia. What message do you send to Belgian companies in general and to these people in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u18	Minister, the Ukraine crisis is strengthening defence-related national and international bodies. Because of the acute security threat on our eastern border, the economic aspect threatens to remain politically in the background. I would therefore like to draw attention to this issue in this way. Sanctions against Russia are, of course, appropriate, in place and are not under discussion. The impact of the crisis on our companies must be taken into account and, if necessary, supported. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Which sectors in Belgium are directly and indirectly affected by the crisis in Ukraine and Russia? What sectors are currently experiencing supply problems from Ukraine and Russia? Is the government planning support initiatives for companies in affected sectors? Is there, for example, a possibility of extending temporary unemployment? For a number of raw materials we already know, but for which critical raw materials and goods does Belgium depend on Russia and Ukraine, independently of the energy files? Are you planning to map the strategic dependencies of Belgium with regard to Russia? Are there Belgian companies with offices in Ukraine and/or Russia where business secrets are literally and figuratively under attack, strategic sectors and business information that are crucial for the West? What is the trade balance between Belgium and Russia on the one hand and Belgium and Ukraine on the other? Is it rising or falling in recent years? What do employers' organisations ask? Have you had any discussions with them? Will a task force be set up at federal level to evaluate the economic impact on the Belgian economy on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u19	Mr President, first of all, I would like to address my thoughts, support and solidarity to the Ukrainian people as well as to the Russian citizens who oppose this war, this unjustified aggression. They do so by taking a great deal of risk; I also want to greet them. I will begin by presenting to you the state of trade relations between Belgium, Russia and Ukraine, of course before the crisis. This will allow me to better explain the existing and potential economic consequences of this crisis caused by Russia on the Belgian economy. The direct relationship between Belgian companies and the Russian economy is relatively limited. The Russian Federation accounts for about 1% of our exports and is our 15th largest export partner. In 2021, 1,556 Belgian companies exported goods to Russia, while 1,023 companies imported goods from Russia to our country. The total volume of exports amounted to around EUR 3,4 billion in 2021. Imports amount to EUR 6.9 billion. Exports mainly consist of chemical and pharmaceutical products. The imported goods are mainly metals, steel, minerals, oil and oil derivatives. Economic relations between Belgium and Ukraine are more limited than with Russia. It's not a surprise. In 2021, 1,396 Belgian companies exported goods to Ukraine for a total amount of EUR 566 million. I will draw your attention to the fact that, unlike the Brexit crisis, Belgium is relatively less exposed to exports to Russia and Ukraine than the rest of the EU, accounting for only 2.83% of our total exports to Russia and 0.51% to Ukraine, compared with 4.13% and 1. 11% to the EU as a whole. This is also true for imports. Unlike the Brexit crisis, Belgium is less exposed than all EU countries, both in terms of exports and imports. In addition to these direct trade relations between Belgium and Russia, there is a strong interdependence between Russia and the EU for certain raw materials, with Russia being a major exporter of various raw materials such as energy and cereals. As far as direct investment is concerned, the economy of Belgium is directly dependent on that of Russia through investment. Investments in Russia amounted to EUR 1.5 billion in 2020, i.e. 1.5% of total direct investment by all Belgian companies. For example, the Lorraine Group, which has suspended an investment of EUR 50 million in Russia, shows the very serious economic consequences that this can bring. Direct investment by Belgian companies in Ukraine amounted to only EUR 56 million in 2020. As far as the sanctions against Russia are concerned, you have mentioned several of them. Europe first adopted sanctions that had a negative impact on the Russian economy. The Moscow Stock Exchange thus lost 40 per cent on the day of the invasion. It was then closed to this debacle and although stock markets often show irrational behaviour, this means that investors considered that Russian companies have seen their value and profitability decline by more than 40%. These sanctions have also affected our economy, but to a very clear and lesser extent, which I will elaborate on later in my presentation. First, individual sanctions were imposed on hundreds of Russian politicians, soldiers, oligarchs, bankers and institutions who contributed to the Russian invasion. These include the freezing of their assets and real estate in the European Union and a ban on obtaining Schengen visas. Targeted sanctions against the Russian financial sector were also taken. For example, it is no longer possible for the Russian central bank to convert roubles into euros. The value of the rouble has fallen sharply since the invasion began. Russia's public debt has also been brought down to speculative levels. This means that there is a serious risk that Russia will not be able to repay its debt, which would mean that Russia would not be able to finance itself on the markets. This would have a very heavy price for the Russian economy. Other significant financial sanctions have been taken. Seven Russian banks have thus been disconnected from SWIFT. Trade is still possible without this secure service for instant messaging, but is much more difficult because slower and less secure. Russia is seriously affected by this measure. Europe has also closed its airspace to Russia. The existing ban on exports of goods and technologies that can be used for military and security purposes has been strengthened, in particular as regards semiconductors. Russia has been affected by export bans on dual-use goods and technologies as regards oil refining and aerospace industries. For Belgium, export bans to Russia amount to around EUR 25 million per year, i.e. 0.01% of our total exports. Imports of iron, iron and steel from Russia averaged €903.8 million annually between 2016 and 2021. The products which are subject to a ban on imports from Russia to Belgium amount to approximately EUR 60 million and concern iron, cast iron and steel - involving in particular the company NLMK, like Mr. Van Hees called him back. It is obvious that this society is particularly affected. We are closely following the situation with the Walloon government in relation to regional tools. These amounts are, for the moment, relatively limited in terms of mass, but directly affect several enterprises. You know that the European Union could still adopt other sanctions to hit the Russian economy harder and force Russia to withdraw from Ukraine and seriously negotiate a peace agreement. As you have all indicated, these measures are justified, despite their economic cost to the Union and to Belgium in particular. In any case, we must abide by the principles that are defended and bear the consequences of the sanctions that can be imposed. With regard to economic growth, the war in Ukraine has and will continue to have economic consequences for Belgium. The European Central Bank has somewhat reduced, as you know, the prospects for economic growth in the European Union. The extent of these consequences remains uncertain today. I thank Mrs Van Bossuyt for raising it. It is particularly difficult to know at this time the concrete short-, medium- and long-term consequences for our economy. This uncertainty is, moreover, attested by the volatility of markets, particularly on the stock exchange. The negative effects will depend mainly on the duration and extent of this war, as well as on the sanctions and possible counter-sanctions that Russia may adopt. Mr Van Lommel, you had a question about inflation. We cannot now talk about stagflation, given the good employment rates. However, high inflation is a fact. The war in Ukraine is driving up the prices of energy and some basic products, which will increase inflation. As you know, we wanted to take steps to limit this increase in energy prices and thus inflation. I will come back to this in a few moments. But, as I understand it, you have already had a debate on this in the Committee on Energy. For the sectors most affected, energy intensive sectors such as refining, metallurgy, cement and glass are now the most affected by increased costs and energy costs. The war also has a negative impact on the supply of raw materials with a possible risk of shortages and price increases. This is the case when Europe and, in particular, Belgium are heavily dependent on imports from Russia and Ukraine or when it is difficult to find supply alternatives. This is the subject of particular attention at Belgian level, but also at European level, in particular in order to be able to modify certain regulations in relation to product standards which today do not allow us to turn to alternative sources of supply. I am thinking of the supply of aluminium, nickel, maize, sunflower oil, fertilizer, cereals, barley, but also diamonds. In response to Mr Vanbesien's question, Belgium did not request an exception to the diamond sector. Again, we are in line with the principles we hold. Therefore, if there are consequences for particular sectors or sectors, they will have to be taken over and accompanied by these sectors in order to go through this crisis. More generally, there is a risk of a decline in business and consumer confidence, as you said, Mrs Van Bossuyt. This means that in order to minimize the negative economic consequences of this crisis, we will have to continue our recovery policy longer and avoid a policy of austerity. When I speak of a recovery policy, I am thinking of the acceleration of work in relation to the independence of our country and more generally of Europe. I am also thinking of the development of the circular economy. These are important points. There are also measures to support the various sectors. That is why, from the beginning of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, I have asked the SPF Economy to convene the Interministerial Economic Commission, which brings together the various administrations concerned by the economy, not only at the federal level, but also at the level of the federated entities. This Commission met for the first time on 4 March. It then held meetings with the sectoral federations. It will continue to meet to monitor the situation and impacts on our economy, both at federal and regional level. I have also asked this inter-ministerial economic committee to consider measures of support, based initially on what has been done in the past, particularly during the economic crisis following the invasion of Crimea. As you know, sanctions and counter-sanctions were adopted at the time, and support measures were also implemented. I also asked that we build on the measures taken in the context of Brexit, as well as, of course, in the context of the coronavirus crisis. The first request made to us by the employers' federations, and then by the social partners as a whole, concerned the prolongation of economic unemployment in cases of force majeure, in its simplified formula and in its increased formula, I dare say, which prevailed during the crisis of the coronavirus and which still prevails until the end of this month. As you know, this Monday, we decided, in the small ministerial committee, to prolong this economic unemployment because of force majeure "corona" in order to mitigate the consequences of the crisis and war in Ukraine, until the end of June. We have also asked the National Bank, in collaboration with the social partners, to extend the work that is being carried out within the SPF Economy and the Interministerial Economic Committee, to identify the impact of this dual crisis – both the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis – on our economy and businesses, and to propose support measures. The deadline given to the National Bank and the social partners falls at the end of April. But of course we will have meetings at intermediate times, depending on the evolution of the situation. Similarly, the FPS Economy is in daily contact with the National Crisis Centre, particularly with regard to procurement issues in certain sectors. I am thinking in particular of the agri-food sector. A daily contact has been established between the SPF Economy and the National Crisis Centre. This follow-up shall take place on a day-to-day basis. I will not go back to the measures taken with regard to energy and fuel. You know them: they have been presented to you and have been debated. I will conclude by saying that, of course, and as we did during the covid crisis, the government, in conjunction with the other governments of that country, will not undermine the necessary support measures to minimize the impact of this crisis and war on our economy and on our world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u20	Minister, you have said a lot, but you have not really addressed a number of crucial and pertinent questions. As a result of the sanctions, the value of the rouble has fallen dramatically. The sanctions work. But have you also looked at the value of the euro against the dollar? The euro is also very bad. This also has a very large impact on our companies and purchasing power. Indeed, today we cannot speak of stagflation, but all the signs do point to an evolution in that direction. Once again, you underestimate the problem, just as you did when you spoke of an inflation rate of 1.6% and I suggested that it would be much higher. I would like to refer to the warning from Commissioner Dombrovskis yesterday that growth in the European Union will have a particularly significant impact. It is already clear that the loss will be much greater than 1%, while Belgian economic growth rates are already worse than our neighbouring countries and other countries in Europe. So we're not in good shape. But you didn't say much. You argue that we cannot know everything at the moment. That is what you said last year when we raised the issue of high inflation. I'm getting a deja vu feeling here today anyway. Trust's dropping. In Germany, confidence has fallen to an absolutely unprecedented minimum. Companies face particularly high volatility every day. Their supply lines are completely disrupted. Inflation, which is already high, is moving towards the 10% double digits. This means that the overrun of the central index is already getting closer. Official wages will increase, replacement incomes will have to rise rapidly. You will undoubtedly feel the same in corporate income tax. You must keep a very close eye on your budget figures. Not only the companies will see black snow; the same applies to the government. You say that we must reduce our energy dependence. That goes without saying. Where is your government decision on extending the life of nuclear power plants? As a government, in today's geopolitical situation and in view of the signals from the International Energy Agency, I had not even waited until 18 March, but for a long time. Inflation is largely driven by high energy prices, and I find it incomprehensible that the government should only take temporary measures. Natural gas consumption in the population is now very low, but just in September, when the thermostat needs to be raised again, the measure of the VAT reduction will be evaluated. Of the more than 2 euros for 1 litre of fuel, half goes to the state treasury, while the VAT reduction is only 17 euro cents per litre. You say you won't come back to that. I would be ashamed if the measures were limited to that. The citizens and businesses will therefore see black snow. I think the government is doing too little. As a blow to the flames, I think you are not taking the problem seriously enough. That has just turned out to be the case. Mr President, I have therefore prepared a motion for a recommendation. In view of the geopolitical situation, we ask the government to take the necessary concrete measures to avoid the forthcoming stagflation. As a result of high inflation, wage costs are rising. I ask you to consider what mechanisms the government can create to curb inflation. The taxation of energy must also be viewed in a structural way. Temporary measures are out of the question; structural measures must be put in place. Finally, Minister, I would like the government to protect the purchasing power and savings of our people, which have not yet been mentioned. While inflation is followed by an automatic wage index, there must be. But an inflation rate of 10% also means depreciation. Those who have spared their whole life see 10% of their savings go up in smoke in one blow, and there is insufficient attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed difficult to assess the concrete consequences, but concrete measures must already be circulating in the government; I am not talking about energy prices. When I hear you say that we must avoid a policy of austerity, I honestly shudder a little. I hear that we may have to start keeping all kinds of things out of the budget, but someday that will have to be paid and then I already know who will pay for it. I have heard Minister of Energy Van der Straeten beaten to heart in connection with the federal government's policy on energy prices by referring to the study of the KULeuven. However, this study concludes that the middle class is the biggest victim and the least benefit from the measures taken. So we know immediately which group of people does not take away the government's concerns. There are also a number of structural measures, which fall within your competence. I am thinking, for example, of the high wage costs in this country. It will be more difficult for us to compete. Finally, work on flexibility in labour law. There's also the core exit. However, keeping as many nuclear power plants open as possible is very important for our energy independence. I heard you say that the National Bank's study is expected by the end of April. I hope that you will not wait so long for interim measures, because our businesses and our citizens cannot wait that long. You noted that energy-intensive companies are particularly hard hit. For example, for a one-man business, the energy bill is as high as for energy-intensive companies. Finally, I heard you call for European standards to be adjusted if necessary. I thought it was about food and product safety. We have to be careful with that. In short, there is a lot of work on the table and I hope that the government will pay the necessary care and attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u22	I do note that a series of things is being implemented to try to avoid the worst, but the ongoing conflict remains indeed the most hypothetical and the sanctions that will continue. You are in constant contact with the various sectors. Like you, we can only look at what happens on a day-to-day basis. We know that the uncertainties are there, that there is no miracle solution. Let's be careful and we'll look with you at what's going to happen. We are indeed waiting for the report at the end of April, but by then we will not fail to question you and to have a regular follow-up of developments, while knowing that we must of course remain attentive to the purchasing power of most middle-class Belgians. In the aftermath of the crisis of the covid-19, it could not be worse. Of course, we are all in solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I know and acknowledge that many things are unclear at the moment. That is perfectly normal, but with your answers it is clear to me which direction the government is heading. Of course, many decisions will still be taken in the coming days and weeks. Decisions taken will also be reviewed and adapted. I assume that we will have regular feedback on this matter in this committee and exchange views. On inflation and its impact on the budget, we will have an exchange of views with Governor Wunsch of the National Bank of Belgium within two weeks in the Committee on Finance and Budget. You're all invited there. We will, of course, include the governor's answers in the further discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. Being in my head to get a snapshot of the situation. It has been done and, of course, it is known that this situation sometimes evolves from hour to hour. As in many cases, adaptability will therefore be required. We saw it and we heard it in your answers. In many ways – especially in terms of import and export – our country is less affected, less exposed than other countries in Europe. As we operate in a European context, we need to be more attentive than ever. I am also very pleased to see that you have been proactive, particularly when you asked to think about economic and support measures in particular. You and the government have already been able to react. You obviously referred to the demands of the employer's bank, which was the prolongation of economic unemployment in cases of force majeure. You have not fully reviewed all the measures that have been taken by the government to address energy challenges. Here too, they are very real and even if we can still think that they are not enough – I know, to know you, that you would have liked to go even further – they are there. They are concrete and obviously have more merit than ever to exist. Thank you, in any case, for all your answers and for the proper form, I will table a simple motion in response to Mr. Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Prévot. This motion was well received.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u26	Thank you Minister for all the information you have given us on economic relations with Russia and Ukraine. There's one question you haven't answered. What message do you send to Belgian companies active in Russia? I referred in particular to the case of three Liberal parliamentarians. I think that it is sometimes a bit hypocritical to have a similar speech in the assemblies and a policy which, on the economic level, is quite different from the discourse conducted. But I note this point. As far as NLMK is concerned, I understand that steel is a particularly sensitive product in the event of war and I understand that it is not exported to Russia. I have heard that NLMK has large stocks in the plant – since they are semi-finished products mainly from Russia. Are exports feasible to countries other than Russia? I have the impression that this is already the case today. I don't care about Mr. Lisin's fate, even if he's a Sogepa's partner. I do not believe that he is subject to sanctions or is one of the businessmen involved. On the other hand, I care about the fate of the staff of Clabecq and La Louvière. If there are large stocks that can be exported to other countries, this would be an interim solution for workers in these plants. With regard to the government's measures to counter rising energy prices, they are obviously largely inadequate. In terms of fuel, for example, the government's measure represents a budgetary cost of €288 million, while the additional revenue amounts to over €1 billion. The gap is quite impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u27	You have exceeded your speaking time, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u28	Mr. President, I'm closing. I would also like to recall the role of fuel in indexing wages. You are obviously in the foreground, minister, to deal with this kind of problem. We expect a strong gesture from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. It is a good thing that measures are being taken, but it is also very important for our group to keep an eye on public finances. I also understand that the impact on exports and imports is rather limited. I am concerned about your positive attitude towards the future of our economy. When we hear the analysis, it looks less positive. It is very important that this is monitored by the government, but I understand that you are doing so. We, too, will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u30	Are there any colleagues who wish to speak in the reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u31	Mr President, I did not intend to ask for the floor at first, but I heard a number of colleagues pulling in the energy measures, and I would like to say a few things about that. The Flemish interest refers here to the shaky public finances and then says that the measures are inadequate and that they should have been much more. Of course, it's one or the other. If people are said to see black snow, that's true. That's very clear. I do not think there is any politician today who can say that he can avoid that. That's impossible because the prices are sky high. That is why it is important that additional measures are taken. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you are referring to the study that says that the middle class is having a very difficult time and that the lowest class is still doing a bit of good today because the measures have already been taken and the extended social tariff protects them very well. The additional measures taken today, such as the VAT reduction and the heating allowance, are just for the middle class. This is important, but what is even more important is the discussions that are now taking place, including on the independence of Russian gas and on investment in renewable energy. Climate realists have never really taken them seriously and now it turns out that we will need them very much. Yesterday, in committee, we had a discussion on the energy market model, on which there is something to be said. These are all structural matters that hopefully can help us in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u32	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you can respond in a reply to what a colleague has said if it is a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u33	Mr Verduyckt, I assume you mean us when you talk about climate realists. You say that we have never taken investing in renewable energy seriously. If you look at the Flemish government's investment in renewable energy, you will see that this is about billions. If you know that Flanders is a world champion in terms of the number of solar panels, then you cannot say that there is no investment in renewable energy or that we do not take it seriously. We've always said it's an en-en-story. The investments that take place there are the finest evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u34	We are deviating from the Ukraine debate. Thank you for this interesting debate. I do not think it is the last time that we will discuss this issue in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u35	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, - having regard to previous questions, interpretations and interventions to the Minister concerning inflation and purchasing power; - considering that the problem of inflation in the past was considered to be predominantly minimalist by the government; - whereas sanctions and Russian counter-reactions may affect the Belgian economy; - having regard to the further increase in energy prices and food prices resulting from this war, - considering the increasing risk of stagflation, with inflation accompanied by a stagnant economy; - whereas calculated price increases will in general no longer be withdrawn, will remain permanent and will lead to an increase in the inflation basket; - whereas further inflation implies that: . reduces savings even more in value; . consumers' purchasing power is falling; . an increase in wages is necessary, which will then be passed on to the final customer with a new inflation and which has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Flemish companies; asks the government - in view of the geopolitical situation, to take the necessary measures to avoid stagflation; - to take measures concerning rising wage costs resulting from high inflation, including lower labour costs, which mean that production costs are reduced and the competitiveness of Flemish firms is maintained and inflation is slowed down; - to reduce the taxes on energy on a structural basis in order to reduce inflation; - to ensure maximum protection of the purchasing power and savings of our consumers." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - having regard to the Russian invasion of Ukraine; - having regard to previous questions and interventions addressed to the Minister concerning inflation and purchasing power; Whereas the problem of inflation was previously considered by the government from a mainly minimalist point of view; - Whereas Russian sanctions and counter-actions may affect the Belgian economy; - in view of the further increase in energy and food prices resulting from this war; - considering the increasing risks of stagflation, characterized by the fact that inflation goes hand in hand with a stagnant economy; - Whereas the effects of price increases are generally reversible and will remain permanent, which will inevitably lead to an increase in the inflatable basket; Whereas the continuation of inflation implies: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, asks the government - in view of the geopolitical situation, take the necessary measures to avoid stagflation; - to take measures to increase wage costs as a result of high inflation, in which a reduction in labour costs implies a reduction in production costs, maintaining the competitiveness of Flemish enterprises and curbing inflation; - structurally lower energy taxes in order to curb inflation; - to protect as much as possible the purchasing power and savings of our consumers." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u36	Minister, I realise that it is a big step from Ukraine to the bird market, but we have to do our job. I was given a report by Faunawatch on the trade in pets on markets, with some distressing examples of the lack of shelter, lack of space and illegally caught exotic birds which also pose the risk of disease transmission. As a government, we have to do our job. There is legislation around here, but the report shows that this is not always met in markets. Are checks carried out on this and how many people do we commit to doing so? What can the federal level do in this matter? Is there a need for consultation with the Regions? In his report, Faunawatch advocates far-reaching legislation, even banning the sale of pet animals on markets. How's the Minister looking at that call?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u37	The Commission notes that the aid was granted in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') and with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') and in The federal law of 14 August 1986 on the protection and welfare of animals to which you refer has been amended several times by decrees and decrees of the three regions as a result of this reform of the state. This also applies to Chapter III of the Act which imposes certain restrictions and conditions on trade in animals. I therefore believe that the federal government is not competent to regulate pet trade on markets and I refer to the ministers responsible for animal welfare in the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels-Capital regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament 55024845C by Mrs Dierick may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the Batopin project comes from the consortium of four of our country's largest banks: Belfius, ING, BNP and CBC – I'm not teaching you anything. It looks at the abolition, maintenance or reorganization of cash distributors, independently of the headquarters and banking agencies on which they have so far relied. There is therefore a real risk of the disappearance of a service as basic as that of easy access to its money. That's not good news. This is the first time I've asked you a question, but you probably know that I come from a more rural province and region. The Batopin project has consequences in urban areas. It has other consequences in rural areas, where banks are often more spaced and, by extension, money distributors too. You have confirmed the establishment of a working group within your cabinet, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem, and Secretary of State Eva De Bleeker. In the recent past, you have confirmed two of the selection criteria proposed by Batopin in this working group. These questions are raised. The first criterion is that the maximum distance to a distributor is 5 km for residents. Unless I'm wrong, these five miles are calculated on bird flight. Anyone who knows a little bit about the geography of the province of Luxembourg will understand that the bird flight calculation increases the actual distance to be travelled significantly. It should also be noted that other countries, which are implementing similar projects, have opted for a maximum travel time, not a distance. By opting for bird flying calculation, Batopin directly penalizes rural areas. In a second criterion, Batopin banks calculate profitability per distributor. It may be said that this is normal for commercial enterprises, but banks are not commercial enterprises like others, since they have a legal monopoly over this deposit and withdrawal service. Like the "Financing" association, we consider it to be a public service. Therefore, the public service obligation to treat all its customers equally should apply to the Batopin project. Minister, do you confirm the criteria proposed by Batopin in your firm's working group? Can you draw up a complete list of them? Are they still in the evaluation phase? Can they still evolve? In what sense? Could differentiated criteria be used depending on whether the distributor is in urban, peri-urban or rural areas? Finally, do you consider the provision of cash to the public to be a public service obligation? My second set of questions about Batopin, Minister, is no longer about withdrawals, but about deposits of money that mainly concern small traders. The Batopin project also has an impact on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Indeed, these – even more than just consumers – depend on the liquidity deposit function to cash their earnings. I will not teach you anything by reminding you that bank counters close or, in any case, are less and less accessible. Moreover, the Batopin project does not guarantee the deposit option in all its distributors, let alone in a secure way. Today, in the Province of Luxembourg, almost 35% of the population does not have access to a distributor with the deposit function at 5 km round. With the Batopin project, this figure will rise to more than 40%. In short, the situation will continue to worsen. And here we're talking about a flight distance, much longer in reality. Minister, will the impact on independent small and medium-sized enterprises be assessed? What measures are you taking to limit it? Finally, is your firm planning a consultation with UCM and other SME defence associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u40	Mr President, Minister, it becomes a chestnut tree. A new Belfius agency decided last week to close its doors in Couvin this time! As has been mentioned many times in this committee, the BATOPIN project as currently conceived will not meet the needs of citizens with regard to the proximity of banking services. In January, I asked you to have access to the National Bank's report on the accessibility of banking services. At the time, you indicated that the NBB had requested additional time to render its analysis. Minister, what is the new deadline for this new deadline? When can we hope to have access to this report? You also indicated that you had set up a working group to negotiate with banks and find solutions. What progress has been made? What did you get from the banks involved in the BATOPIN consortium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. First of all, as far as the BATOPIN network is concerned, it was confirmed to me that, in order to draw up its distributor network plan, it had been based on a December 2021 survey carried out by the iVOX study office according to which the Belgian would prefer to withdraw cash on the journey to his place of work and/or during his shopping. As a result, BATOPIN distributors would be or will be mainly located on the main routes or in commercial areas, either on the shopping streets or in shopping centres. In addition to this distribution plan for distributors, BATOPIN informed about the interoperability of distributors in its network with regard to accessibility for traders, in particular, for deposits. Therefore, whether he is a customer at Belfius, BNP Paribas Fortis, ING or KBC, BATOPIN confirms that the merchant will be able to make his deposit on any automaton in the network. The work carried out by the working group established within my firm was ongoing. Indeed, as you know, the aim was to draft a protocol on the problems of access to the local banking network and cash distributors. As you also know, I had given priority to negotiating with the banking sector. But Febelfin told us last week that she did not want to embark on a protocol, which I bitterly regret. Therefore, along with my colleagues, Vincent Van Peteghem and Eva De Bleeker, I am now moving towards drafting a bill to best address issues related to access to financial services. As a matter of general economic interest, this issue of access to cash for all is a concern to which my administration and I are particularly attentive and attached. Among the measures taken, I would like to mention the implementation of the seventh bpost management contract. As you know, it is accompanied by a corporate social responsibility charter whereby bpost undertakes to make available to consumers at least three hundred and fifty ATMs and at least one ATM in municipalities where no other devices are available. The contract entered into force on 1 January 2022 and will cover the period from 2022 to 2026. I had also requested a study from the National Bank on the possibility of increasing interbank charges in the context of distributors, but the National Bank recently replied that such a study could not be carried out. Indeed, it should have commercial information specific to each bank that it is currently unable to collect. It does not have a sufficient legal basis to require banks to provide such information. As I mentioned earlier, with regard to the fact that Febelfin wished to leave the negotiating table on the drafting of a protocol on the accessibility of financial services, I see no alternative but to go through the legislative procedure that I mentioned. I said that I preferred with my colleagues the path of negotiation and the establishment of a protocol negotiated with the sector. As the sector has decided to leave the negotiating table, I am obliged to go into the legislative process.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u42	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, although, unless I am mistaken, I have not heard an answer from you to my question about the fact that the banks' monopoly imposes a public service obligation on them. And it is regrettable that at present banks tend to charge more and more for less services they provide to their customers. On the other hand, I am pleased to note two very positive elements of your answer. On the one hand, all distributors will have a deposit function. That's very good news. One element of my question was, however, that these distributors were then in a sufficiently secure area because the merchant who walks with his cashier of the day must be able to do so safely. I regret the end of the negotiations, of course, but I am pleased with the result that you are making and with the fact that you are going to start drafting a bill that, if I understand correctly, will aim at ensuring access to cash for all citizens. It's a great thing! I welcome these two elements all the more because the criteria which you have mentioned and which have been further developed recently by Batopin, which consist of only developing in a commercial area or on major axes, because that is where there is the most interest, are obviously quite unfavourable to the rural areas which I am trying to defend here. What about the villages in which there is only a small supermarket or a small market and which are places where, par excellence, we will want and need to pay in cash? Nothing is guaranteed in this regard. I will conclude with two small remarks. On the one hand, you mentioned the example and the obligation to bpost. Or bpost is not yet part of the Batopin project. On the other hand, I will cite two examples to remind us of the realities involved. The inhabitants of the commune of Gouvy who want cash must now move to Vielsalm, 10 to 15 kilometers further and the commune of Wellin, which is not a small town in our province, has just lost its last distributor. That is one of the concerns I asked you about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u43	Minister, I agree with you when you say we have to go through legislation. I was already convinced that by negotiating with the banking sector, it would refuse your proposals. We had therefore already tabled a bill on this subject, which is now a priority. I invite you to read it. If necessary, I will come to explain it and provide more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u44	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u45	Mr President, over the last five years, the Economic Inspectorate has received a total of 77 notifications through the FPS Economy hotline, which explicitly refers to fraud in the construction sector. This is mainly about scams, counterfeit invoices, sales fraud and so on. However, no significant increase in the number of reports submitted annually cannot be observed. The problem of the insolvency risk of contractors and the protection of consumers against it is one of the elements that I included in my 2022 policy paper on the wider issue of consumer protection in buildings. I will ask the special consultative committee on consumption within the Central Business Council for advice on this issue. The 2021 Action Plan of the College for the fight against tax and social fraud includes an action aimed at developing a database of professional prohibitions that can be consulted by notaries, Registrys and Business Windows in order to prevent persons who have been banned from starting a business again. The FPS Justice is responsible for putting this into effect. The question of a link with the KBO will no longer arise because no company which has a connection with a person who has a professional prohibition will still be able to be registered in the KBO. With regard to the prohibition of trade, further consultations will be needed with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u46	That protection is crucial. You're talking about further consultation. When will that take place? I think we all know someone in the construction sector who has gone bankrupt more than once and continues and boasts about it. Of course, that's very painful. The fact that such a thing is still possible means that there is something wrong with the system and that urgent action is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u47	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55024958C and 55024959C by Mr Ducarme expired. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55025118C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u48	Mr Minister, there is in fact no copyright on official government documents. That's what legislation is about. However, the Association of Educational and Scientific Authors (VEWA) has included in its rules that copyright must be paid on parliamentary texts. It would even be 10% on all publications of legal texts, treaties, parliamentary documents and so on. The Code of Economic Law should be clear on this in principle. I therefore wonder whether the compensation does not conflict with the legislation in force. How much has been paid by the VEWA to copyright for this type of document over the past five years? How come this wasn't noticed by the check before? Will you, if you agree with me that this is contrary to the law, allow the compensation to be recovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u49	Mr Van Lommel, it is true that, in accordance with Article 1172, § 2 of the Code of Economic Law, it is stipulated that official documents of the government are not protected by copyright. However, it is not excluded that a collection of such documents, as in a code, complies with the originality criterion. It is possible that the originality is contained in the selection, organization, design and possible annotation of the edition. The question of whether or not a bundle composed of official documents of the government is protected by copyright and thus by the originality test can in fine be answered only by the judiciary. A priori, therefore, it cannot be excluded that a bundling of official documents by the public authorities is effectively protected. The fees paid are rather low, as the percentage allocated to editors is up to 10%, and on the basis of VEWA's declarations, less than one percent of the total number of pages indicated is due to collections of legal texts and/or annotated works. Following a recent amendment to the distribution rules, the audit authority made a number of comments. One of these is the fact that the originality criterion had to be maintained in the context of the compilation of legislative texts. VEWA indicated that this requirement had already been applied in practice. This is also specified in the new distribution rules. The VEWA auditor shall carry out an annual sampling check. If it finds irregularities, fees to the member shall be blocked. Fees already paid can be recovered by VEWA if it appears that internal rules have been infringed. In 2022, the Audit Authority launched a general investigation into the distribution process of VEWA. Sampling will be carried out, inter alia, to determine whether VEWA is taking sufficient measures to avoid internal risks such as these.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You speak of the originality criterion. You have also said that it cannot be excluded whether or not it is applicable and that it accounts for less than one percent of the total, but I am particularly concerned about the principle. The rules are clear enough. Publications of legal texts, treaties, parliamentary documents and such copyrights cannot be covered. In that sense, I believe that this should be followed up and that there should be sufficient control. Where infringements are detected, action should also be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u51	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 5, by Mrs Dierick (H-50255138C) and Question No 55025144C Mr Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u52	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u53	Mrs Houtmeyers, on 24 February Parliament adopted a law to improve the effectiveness of competition rules on anticompetitive practices. We want to achieve this by, on the one hand, increasing the budget available to the Belgian Competition Authority (BMA) and, on the other hand, improving procedures. Better enforcement of competition rules will lead to healthier market conditions and better competitiveness of our economy. Competition between companies takes place at different market levels and varies according to the geographic market. For example, a company can dominate the Belgian market and thus create competition problems in this market, which will lead the Belgian Competition Authority to intervene. In the European market, the same company has only a 15% position and there is no competitive risk. The national competition authorities, the European Commission or even the authorities of third countries are best placed for their respective markets to assess competition and ensure compliance with competition rules. The authorities of the Member States and the Commission shall consult and cooperate with each other within the so-called European Competition Network (ECN). There are also many agreements between this European competition network and the authorities in third countries. The formal procedures aimed at prosecuting infringements are the hard core of the tools at the disposal of the BMA to discourage action. In order to optimise the use of its resources, the Authority shall concentrate its interventions where the expected positive impact is greatest. It takes into account the resources needed to carry out the actions successfully. An investigation can be of great strategic importance, for example when the infringement is committed in a sector which the BMA considers to be a priority. To prepare this list, the BMA has not yet developed its own sectoral screening tool. The BMA relies, inter alia, on the results of the sectoral screening methodology of the Prize Observatory, the expertise of the Authority itself, experiences from previous investigations and signals from other authorities, such as the reported statistics of the National Bank of Belgium, research institutes and the academic world. In order to better tailor the very valuable screening tools of the National Bank's Prize Observatory and reported statistics to the needs of the BMA, exploratory talks between the institutions concerned are planned. The assessment of the granting of subsidies and State aid to companies is not the competence of the BMA, but of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It must be clear that I am absolutely not against companies making profits. On the contrary, they give a lot of people jobs, they take risks, they face the necessary challenges and they are the engine of our economy, but that must of course be done in a healthy way with healthy conditions. We must continue to ensure that large international companies do not throw our players and our SMEs out of the market. That's killing our local economy. It also keeps prices artificially high for consumers. We can certainly spare that right now. It has once again become clear how important it is that additional resources have gone to the BMA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u55	Mr Loones and Mrs Van Hoof are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u56	Mrs Houtmeyers, thank you for your question. At present, talks with the Länder are ongoing at the political level with a view to finding a consensus in order to finalise the cooperation agreement. After a consultation, mid-February, at the highest political level, the parties concerned now interconnect internally at their respective levels. Our intention is to reach a compromise very soon. As soon as there is political agreement, my administration will draw up the draft cooperation agreement, after which it can be politically validated before the summer. It could then be approved in the respective parliaments before the end of 2022. Next, every effort will be made to organise the operational roll-out of screening. During the mid-February consultations, some outstanding elements were discussed, including a final bottleneck on the scope of screening and on the notification thresholds. The ball is now in Flanders' camp, which still has to decide on the latest compromise proposal. The war in Ukraine shows how crucial it is that progress is made in this matter so that we have more control over our dependence on countries like Russia. I therefore hope that my Flemish colleagues will soon show that they too want to make progress on this issue. It is indeed time to make progress to improve Belgium's strategic independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u57	As you say, Minister, the situation in which we are now making it clear once again that this is a matter of urgency. You say the ball is now in the camp of Flanders. Then I am convinced that it will move forward very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u58	Mr President, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u59	As regards trade policy measures, the possible levers have been activated in accordance with the rules adopted by the WTO. Belgium fully supports the European Commission, both in the context of the complaint lodged with the WTO against Russia, and in the context of the initiatives it is taking to strengthen the conditions for fair competition. Belgium's positions on trade-related issues are being prepared at the Belgian level during consultation and coordination meetings organised by the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination (DGE) of the FPS Foreign Affairs. Those meetings shall take place every week and shall bring together all relevant federal and federated bodies. The issue of timber trade has been discussed several times at these meetings and will certainly be re-examined in the near future as part of the follow-up to the initiatives launched by the EU. The request for consultation of the EU of 20 January, which was explicitly supported by Belgium, formally initiates a dispute under the WTO Memorandum on Dispute Resolution. If the EU-Russia consultations do not lead to agreement within 70 days, i.e. no later than 31 March 2022, the EU may request the establishment of a WTO panel to decide on the legality of the Russian measures in the light of WTO rules. Given the deterioration of EU-Russia relations as a result of the war in Ukraine, it seems unlikely that a solution can be found in the WTO in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u60	It seems to me very unlikely that we will make it to 31 March. The raw materials problem was already very serious last year. We have talked about this a great many times back then. In February, I asked you a question about the wood problem. In the meantime, it has only gotten bigger, more up-to-date and more acute. I think that we should be able to protect the few raw materials in our country at all costs and that we in Belgium will have to get our hands dirty again and ensure that we can protect and support ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u61	I suggest we keep working until 6:15. We're not gonna make an evening meeting out of it. We will look next week for a moment when we can deal with the rest of the questions, as they cannot all be addressed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u62	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u63	The floods of July 2021 highlighted the problem of the comprehensibility of fire insurance agreements. The FSMA has set up an internal working group to improve the readability of such agreements. Indeed, certain policyholders do not seem to know exactly what their fire insurance covers or the extent of the compensation they are entitled to. The FSMA wants to draw up a simple, clear and understandable design of standard fire insurance contract. More generally, the agreement must have a simple structure, use an accessible language and rely on the principle that everything that is not explicitly excluded is covered. That work is in full swing. The draft agreement will be discussed with all relevant actors. This approach may require legislative adjustments, given that the problem is partly due to old complex legislation. I will take the necessary initiatives in due course. The website of the FPS Economy provides useful and above all practical information for the people affected by the floods. Discussions have already been held with the Insurance Ombudsman to see how the flood victims can be better supported. The Ombudsman considers it desirable to organise information sessions for the affected persons. It is essential to organise prior information sessions with local intermediaries such as the OCMWs, the Red Cross or the social workers, so that they can be referred to the ombuds service by this route. In Verviers such an initiative has been taken and I hope that it will help victims better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u64	Minister, it is good that a number of important steps have been taken in the meantime towards greater transparency and simplification. Apart from that, perhaps we should consider making fire insurance compulsory, so that consumers can no longer suddenly be confronted with enormous costs as a result of damage for which they are not insured.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u65	Ms Depraetere, on 14 September, 26 October and 18 November 2021, constructive meetings were organised and facilitated by representatives of my cabinet and Minister Clarinval between the various parties involved in the code of conduct for good relations between brewers, drink dealers and the catering sector. Afterwards, the Catering Federations had to devote all their energy to managing the covid crisis, so that work on the addendum had been suspended since 1 November. On the other hand, all the parties concerned have very recently informed Minister Clarinval and me that they wish to resume work as soon as the situation permits. Although the work has not yet been completed, I can tell you that the addendum applies only to supply quotas for beverages and the consequences of the corona crisis. Failure to meet the delivery quotas for drinks during the covid period will, except for an exception, never lead to financial penalties or other sanctions by brewers or drink dealers. The period during which the volume had to be reached will be extended as far as possible. The Signatories to the addendum strongly encourage prior mediation and alternative dispute resolution. The Conciliation Committee for Drinking Contracts was established on 22 February 2017. Since then, it has dealt with three cases. The first was discussed at the plenary session on 27 April 2018. The second was incomplete and was therefore not discussed at a plenary session. In the third file, the proceeding was terminated on the basis of an agreement concluded between the parties. A new complaint has recently been received, which remains to be dealt with. One can still complain to the secretariat of the conciliation committee, located within the FPS Economy. The conciliation committee is still operational, but a new chairman, Vice-President and representatives of the three sectors must be appointed. Finally, as regards the evaluation report prepared by the FPS Economy, I can tell you that the various parties involved in the Code of Conduct have received the report. Discussions will begin as soon as the work on the addendum is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u66	Minister, it is important to note that a great many hospitality operators are still sending out the message that they are faced with very strict conditions. We have already held hearings on this matter in Parliament, and it was said that seven years after the code of conduct was introduced, unfortunately, no evaluation has been carried out. We are not very much further ahead today. It's certainly a good thing that the case is being recorded, but it really can't wait. The fact that only three complaints have been dealt with by the Committee on Reconciliation, despite the fact that there are a lot of complaints about this among the catering operators, also shows that the code of conduct is probably simply not enough to protect the catering operators. There was an opinion from the Central Business Council earlier, and that was not very positive about the code of conduct either. It showed that there are still a lot of loopholes that were not closed by the code of conduct. I certainly hope that steps can be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u67	Mr President, Minister, last October in Parliament we adopted the interpretative law to deal with damage after drought. Many of the victims are suffering tens of thousands of euros of damage. The interpretative law ensures that those people are finally protected when faced with it. You saw this, together with your colleague Secretary of State De Bleeker, as a pragmatic solution, but you also said that you were still working on a broader working group working on it. In the meantime, Assuralia has gone to the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, I find it quite scandalous that it has done so. This shows once again that they are not on the side of people who are affected by natural disasters. This working group would possibly come up with other sustainable solutions. I'd like to get an update. There was talk of possible cooperation with the regions which, of course, are responsible for drought. Has there been any consultation on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I did indeed set up a working group last year in which both the staff of my cabinet and the cabinet of my colleague Secretary of State De Bleeker took part. In addition, representatives of the Regions and of Assuralia were also involved. The aim of the working group was to examine whether it was possible to find an insurance solution for future damage caused by housing droughts. On 22 November an interpretative law was published in the Belgian Official Journal in connection with this problem. That law interprets the movement of an important mass of the soil layer, in the sense that this may be the result of a prolonged period of drought. The adoption of the interpretative law has resulted in the work no longer being continued, as no solution has to be found. The legislator has made the choice to solve the problem of damage to homes due to drought by means of the interpretative law. Meanwhile, Assuralia challenges this interpretative law to the Constitutional Court. Depending on the ruling, consideration may be given to restarting the working group. The preparation of a cartography was useful for insurers in the context of the solution spree discussed in the working group. That slope is currently abandoned by the adoption of the interpretative law. If a region wishes to draw up a cartography, it can still do so, albeit on its own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for clarifying that point. I obviously had misunderstood it, because I thought it was the two side by side, namely the interpretative law and in the meantime also a working group that charted everything. I understand that the latter is less relevant when the law was passed. We still have to wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling, but only then will we know whether a restart is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u70	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u71	Mr President, Mr Vanbesien, the current rules are not being amended; it is only being considered to clarify the current rules on the basis of guidelines and to give advice on the most effective means of complying with the rules on labelling. Guidelines are a way of ensuring uniform application of the principle, as there are currently differing views on the interpretation of the prohibition of deception. The aim of these guidelines is to provide more clarity for both consumers and businesses. The packaging must indeed be looked at as a whole. In the current design of the guidelines this is also emphasised in several places. Companies always have the possibility to argue that the use of a particular name in a specific case is not misleading. The draft provides only a few elements for argumentation. Again, this is not about new rules and standards, but about the interpretation of existing rules. Other neighbouring countries have either promulgated legislation in this area or have opted for the same approach that I am defending, in particular: to allow a uniform interpretation of the rules in force. The guidelines are not covered by Directive 2015/1535, since they are neither a rule nor a standard but an application of the existing rules. The guidelines therefore do not affect the free movement of goods. The so-called protein transition does indeed have benefits for the environment and health. The purpose of these guidelines is by no means to hinder this transition. The name vegetarian meat replacement is explicitly mentioned as allowed in the current version of the design of the guidelines. It makes clear to the consumer who wants to make the switch to vegetarian which ingredients he can use to cook.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u72	Minister, I do not yet know how to assess the answer. You say that we are not going to change the rules, but we are going to clarify their interpretation. My question then is what this interpretation will look like. I just hope that people will not solve a problem that is not really there. I also think we know that in future we will all have to be more sparing in the consumption of meat. Those who are already making an effort today, both providers and consumers, must be encouraged and helped as much as possible instead of countering them. After all, what is the worst that can happen? That's someone buying vegetarian chicken cubes by mistake when they thought there was chicken in it. It's not that big of a disaster. Maybe that person even likes it and has that as a positive effect that that person will buy it again in the future. Let's not solve problems that aren't there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u73	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u74	Mrs Depraetere, it is indeed not possible to convert a bank account into a universal banking account. That is because it is technically impossible to keep the account number in case of a change of bank or banking service. At present, transferable account numbers are not a viable option in our national context. The transferability of the account number would require a modification of the IBAN system. In addition, expensive technical and operational changes would be needed for banking service providers beyond the national level. Moreover, any initiative related to banking services should be discussed at least at European level due to the European harmonisation of payment services in the SEPA area. At the moment, there is no concrete initiative. However, transferability of account numbers and associated benefits are regularly discussed in studies carried out by the European Commission. My administration and I follow these discussions closely at European level. Keeping other current accounts does not mean that there is no access to the universal banking service, even if the current accounts are held by banks other than those providing the universal banking service. There are no conditions for access to the universal banking service. There shall be no limitation to a single payment account or a limitation to the amount outstanding on the accounts. In addition, it can be linked to loans or other services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u75	It's technically impossible, but that's a pity. After all, it is a threshold for people. They can call on the universal banking service, for which you have made a great deal of effort. That will certainly help a lot of people. However, it would have been even better if they could keep their account number. I got that question from a number of people. This seems to be alive after all. If it is technically impossible, that is a very regrettable matter, but there is not much to change about it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u76	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u77	Mr Van Lommel, the weight of the products in the index basket is adjusted annually to take account of the change in spending patterns or changes in price levels. When updating the index basket for this year, the weight of food and non-alcoholic beverages decreased from 178,87 to 173,38. The weight of the products in the basket reflects the consumption of an average family and is expressed as a total of 1,000. The reason for the decrease in the share of food at the latest update is the increased weight of energy, the relative share of which in the index basket increased from 88.71 to 98.75, an increase of 16.6 %. Within this product group the weight of natural gas increases by 35%, domestic fuel oil by 29 %, electricity by 12 % and motor fuels by 11 %. The strong increase in the share of energy has the effect of reducing the relative weight of all other product groups in the index basket, including the share of food and non-alcoholic beverages. The increase in energy prices is the main reason why the weight of energy has increased significantly and the weight of other products has decreased. For example, energy inflation in December 2021 was 41,98 %, for food and non-alcoholic beverages it was 0,45%. The increased prices for food, heating and electricity are reflected in the increase in the health index. As a result, social benefits and betting and wages are also increasing. This protects the purchasing power of citizens. In recent months we have already had three central index overruns: August 2021, December 2021 and February 2022. Over the last few days, the government has also taken targeted measures to curb energy expenditure which further underpins the family budget. We have also increased unemployment because of force majeure to help the affected companies through this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u78	I understand that you say that this weighting has been adjusted to reflect the share of energy that has eventually increased, but given that supermarkets now often work with annual contracts, we know that these price increases will be noticeable in any case in the supermarkets. I think that this is an important task for the Prize Observatory, to keep an eye on it. After all, we will be able to see significant price increases in the supermarkets in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u79	Mr Minister, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u80	What about objective reasons for refusing cash payments, such as security reasons or a large-denomination payment (500 or 200 euros) for low-priced products?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u81	Mrs Houtmeyers, the European legislation you are talking about makes recommendations and is therefore not legally binding. Member States are encouraged to comply with these recommendations, but there is no obligation. The draft law gives effect to these recommendations. The justification for this obligation is based on the desire to protect the most vulnerable victims of the digital divide. Many people want to be able to pay in cash, and I think it is important to guarantee this possibility as long as the digital divide exists. However, I am aware that this obligation can have a significant impact on business. That is why I asked for the advice of the Central Council for Business and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. In 2020, the Economic Inspectorate received 150 reports on the refusal of cash payments, and in 2021 it received 75 notifications. For 2022, 13 notifications have been received to date. The figures for 2020 and 2021 are higher because many traders did not accept cash payments due to corona. The Economic Inspectorate monitors the notifications and then writes a sensitising letter to the traders against whom a complaint has been lodged to inform them of their rights and obligations. Consumers will also receive a reply letter explaining the rules. It therefore seems important to me to provide for a sanction against companies that do not accept cash payments. In the absence of a legal basis, the Economic Inspectorate can only make traders aware of the importance of accepting cash payments. Cash payments will always be legal tender. The consumer must therefore be able to make a cash payment within the legal limits. In addition, the willingness to promote electronic payments is still the same. It is essential to promote electronic payments, but I also want to ensure that this does not go at the expense of the most vulnerable people. The choice of payment method should be guaranteed as long as the digital divide exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic723x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
