ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u2	Prime Minister, you look pretty good. However, you have had a short night and you have been meeting for several nights. That's okay, whenever that leads to any result. But now there's nothing. You didn't even give a press conference. There are no tweets of party presidents to say that they do not agree with the agreement, which apparently has not been concluded. If there aren't even tweets, there's really nothing. It is sometimes said that the government does not come up with solutions. That's bullshit, because your government comes up with seven solutions per problem. Only they don't crochet together, they don't lead to a policy. We can be funny about that, but it's about serious problems. For example, it's about the energy bill. If I am not mistaken, you would come up with solutions last Friday, which would be of little use to the working citizen and to the retired, despite the huge price increases. We also expected news about the tax shift. Purchasing power is falling and the government has plans to give the citizens hope and already 12 euros a month to tax shift. But I can't even do that. You do not know how to find the money, nor do you know who it will be distributed to. So there is complete silence for that too. Then there is the extremely important issue of pensions. Your PS colleagues are laughing at you in the face. The coalition agreement said that a solution would be found in September. A plan has been submitted. Then you said you'd look at everything again. And Mrs. Lalieux is now saying she'll just submit the same plan again. Prime Minister, my question is very simple. What have you been up to for the past week?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u3	Madam President, Prime Minister, the press reports many incantations, with as much indecision as it is unable to decide. That is how you can finally sum up your government. Indeed, it has not been for three days, nor for three weeks, that the situation has been going on for months. And your little green bet obviously didn't change anything. Meanwhile, energy prices are exploding. The bills of many households are blazing. If a comparison is made with neighbouring countries, if we consider, for example, the average gas consumption of a household, we can see that Belgium holds the record pathetic with the largest explosion in the energy bill. Meanwhile, it is every day that the state recovers the bet. With the explosion of financial returns via the tax explosion, it is the state, even if the different levels of power are concerned, that stores the differential. It is true that the government acted through the social tariff, the extension of it. But, Prime Minister, that is not enough and it will not be enough! Many citizens do not receive any help. For them, nothing is done. However, there is not a single day without a party president of your government, without a minister or deputy prime minister stating that action is urgent, that solutions must be found and that the entire middle class must be helped. Figures are given, in particular figures with the amount of household income that should be eligible for assistance. In short, to hear the various party presidents, at least 80 per cent of the population should be entitled to it. That's enough of the words! The incantations are enough! We need action! What's wrong, Prime Minister? When are you finally going to give your support to all the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u4	Prime Minister, this is urgent. People can no longer pay their energy bill and wonder what the Wetstraat is doing. It has been said for two weeks that urgent action is needed. Conner Rousseau said on 12 January that there was no time for long and complicated discussions and that the government had to take immediate action. A day later Melissa Depraetere said that there was no time to lose and that we needed a quick solution. Kim Buyst van Groen also said that measures had to be taken quickly. Malik Ben Achour of the PS said two weeks ago: "We must act quickly". Steven Matheï of CD&V said that additional actions were needed for a rapid impact. But what happened? Po-pom, po-pom; po-pom, po-pom; po-pom, po-pom. Last night, nothing had happened. What exactly are we doing? What are we doing here? There are social emergencies! As far as pensions are concerned, it is the same thing. Karine Lalieux proposed a bad plan four months ago. It gives no solution for difficult jobs, people will have to work up to 67 years. Now she's reproposing the same plan! What world do we live in? On the other hand, last Friday, you were able to quickly decide that we were going to spend 10 billion a year on the war, on the defense. It is also remarkable that Green is enthusiastic about the increase in the defence budget. I thought that there would still be some pacifism at Green, but none of it. Money for the army is not a problem, 10 billion by 2030, but there is no money for a reduction in VAT. Prime Minister, it's shameful! Will you finally decide to reduce VAT from 21 % to 6 % tonight? If not, people's anger will be very great. Be careful!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, unfortunately, being right is not the same as being right. For months now, I have been questioning your government about rising inflation and the falling purchasing power of the people. For months, you've been looking at me like I'm from another planet because you don't seem to realize that life is going to be more expensive. However, everyone feels that filling his shopping cart has become considerably more expensive. Anyone who builds or renovates is confronted with offers and invoices that will spread the pan. Your government's response was simply to extend the social tariff for energy and count on automatic wage indexation, because it is all temporary. It's like this is the end of it. Wages will indeed increase, but these higher wage costs will then be passed on to consumers, resulting in new inflation. You don't seem to understand the system very well, but I would like to come to your cabinet and give you a few basic lessons in macro-economics to open your eyes, Prime Minister. We are facing high inflation while our economic growth compared to that of the other European countries is of questionable quality. From the start, your government underestimated the problem. You keep bickering with your coalition partners to find a solution to our people's purchasing power problem. First, you deny the problem, so that later on you do not cut any buttons and fall into indecision. When will you act in the interests of the population and tackle falling purchasing power through rising inflation? What will you do to protect the purchasing power of our people? What will you do to ensure that people's savings don't go up in smoke? What will you do against the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, many heavy dossiers on your plate, and that is normal when you take policy responsibility. It is good that the government partners have clear opinions and that they are exchanged respectfully and well-founded. Slogans from the sidelines are something we can't afford. We are dealing here with fundamental dossiers. The energy dossier and people's pensions are fundamental to our citizens. Prime Minister, it is your job now to make a synthesis. In the past, you have done that with this government, for example with regard to the fixing of the wage standard, the greening of commercial cars or the budget that was first submitted in time in years. During the energy crisis, the index protects the purchasing power of some, but further efforts are being made to increase the purchasing power of Belgians. The EUR 300 million tax shift decided upon is something that some people are laughing about. In addition, you are also working on the energy file. During the budget year, the government expanded the social tariff for those who are struggling. But we want and we need to move on. The working middle class must also be supported by smart, temporary measures. We do fit in to give gifts and then send the invoice to those people we just gave a gift to. The mission is clear: keep talking to your government partners about this. I am confident that you will reach an agreement in the coming days. Firstly, how will you continue to work on increasing people's purchasing power over the next few days and reducing the energy bill? Secondly, can the millions of Belgians with the lowest incomes count on an extension of the social tariff? Finally, how will we further support the middle class?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u7	Prime Minister, whether it is a reduction in VAT, an energy check or an extension of the social rate, solutions are on the table to help millions of households who are not only facing an explosion in their energy bills but also at a cost of living that is becoming increasingly difficult to bear. We have to decide now! For our fellow citizens, the bills are here now. The difficulties are now there for millions of households. In many families, including families that are not protected by the social rate, one must already go to his savings book - when one has one - to pay the bills. Prime Minister, why so many hesitations? Today, people don't understand! I can understand that solutions can be complicated to implement but it is high time to send a very clear signal to all those who get up every morning to go to work and who directly feel the price rise at the end of the month. Yes, the government will be at the side of the citizens to help them, and yes, effective and responsive measures will be taken quickly. What do you intend to do to help the majority of households in this country as soon as possible? Do you intend to extend the extended social rate for the most vulnerable households, an extension that we believe should be obvious to everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the high energy prices in our country are a harsh reality for many people: invoices are three times more expensive and advance invoices up to 1,000 euros. People get into trouble, and they're counting on us for that. That is why the government is considering the issue. Prime Minister, I have been here before to ask you about the problem. I would like to quote your answers last week: "More fundamentally, I think that the government should take advantage of the opportunity to pursue policies. This policy should not only focus on one-off compensation, but should provide an answer to the question of how we give our citizens sustainable access to cheap energy." Forward, those words fully support them. Our proposal is clear. Reduce VAT to 6% and adjust it with excise duties. This way we can achieve a real impact on the invoice and adjust it sustainably. Then your approach will not be limited to a oneshot measure. Excise duties can be an honest regulator. A high VAT price can't do that. That's where the difference lies. A strong government is doing what needs to be done right now. You are absolutely right that a one-shot measure here will not suffice. Prime Minister, earlier this week the energy suppliers said that it would take three months for a VAT reduction to be passed on to the invoice. Allow me to find that completely unacceptable. Raise energy suppliers with a fingernip advance invoices to 1,000 euros, but at the same time it would not be possible to lower the bill for the people when it is really necessary. Firstly, can you confirm that the government is still working on a sustainable, ecological, social solution to the high energy bill? Secondly, what else is needed to reach a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, it has been weeks since your government tried in vain to find a solution to relieve the middle classes affected by this energy crisis. The situation is getting worse every day. As recently as yesterday, the Federation of Suppliers indicated that, even if a 6% reduction in VAT was decided, they believe that they will not be able to apply it until 1 April 2022. If I am well informed, on April 1st, we will already be in the spring for ten days. How is that possible? How is it that, even on a case where everyone seems to be joining on the goals, where everyone seems to be joining on the urgency, you are not able, with this government, to succeed? In substance, I maintain what I have already said here. I maintain that if you choose the reduction of VAT, it is absolutely necessary to integrate, increase the place of energy in the calculation of the index. But I also maintain that this decline cannot be a sufficient response. In Wallonia, more than one in two households are still heating up with oil. We therefore need an answer, alongside this, also focusing on the creation of a new tranche of the social tariff dedicated to the middle classes. But, beyond all this, beyond the usual game of majority and opposition that is sometimes in bad faith - admit it - Prime Minister, very sincerely, we can all see that energy prices are added to the long list of issues on which this Vivaldi is unable to make a decision. This brings us to a question as simple as it is dramatic. It's a shame, though. What is the point of having done so hard to set up a full-fledged government, if it is to end up with a government that has a return on its day-to-day business?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u10	Prime Minister, I have been very uncomfortable for a few weeks. My mailbox is filled with emails from people who are worried about their energy bill, people who deliberately lower their heating and have cold, people who need to call on their savings to pay their energy bill, people who have lost their advance due to the bankruptcy of their energy supplier and who now have to have a expensive and variable contract. All these people in those e-mails ask one thing: what is the government going to do to help me? Unfortunately, I have been guilty of that answer for several weeks. Prime Minister, our citizens expect a solution. Our citizens deserve a solution. The electricity bill goes times two and the gas bill goes times three. These are exceptional circumstances requiring exceptional measures. It is precisely for this reason that our Deputy Prime Minister put on the table two weeks ago a proposal to temporarily reduce VAT to 6%. Prime Minister, you have said twice in plenary that a solution for you must meet three criteria: temporaryity, sustainability and efficiency. Colleagues, a temporary VAT reduction is by definition temporary. It's efficient, it's quick to apply and palpable, and it's affordable. We not only want temporary measures, we also want structural measures. This also fits perfectly into your and our ambitions to be a reform government. In our view, excise duties which can be modulated are a very efficient and structural measure which is good for our citizens and which does not affect entrepreneurs. Mr Prime Minister, my question is very simple. When will there be an answer to the distress call of our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u11	Mr De Roover, I would like to begin with your more general question. You are asking for a few examples of what has been decided over the past few days. Let me give you five examples. Firstly, at the end of last week there was the decision of the coronabarometer to ensure that we can lead our country through this new phase in the pandemic. Secondly, the government has adopted measures that benefit our organisations which are difficult to operate today because of so many people being quarantined by omikron. These proposals from the social partners were implemented in practice. Thirdly, we have decided on a new package of measures to ensure that companies and self-employed people, who are still suffering heavily from this pandemic, can receive support to get through. Fourthly, a package of purchasing power measures. We are ensuring that the purchasing power of people affected by this pandemic and people can improve, including by reforming the special contribution to social security. Finally, at a time when Western Europe is affected by one of the greatest security crises since the Cold War, we are making sure that our country is ready, that our defence is ready to assume its international responsibility at a difficult time. That is what one can expect from a government at a time like this. That's what this government does. I'm just giving you a few examples of decisions made over the past few days. Energy is indeed a subject on which I have already been asked several times in this Parliament. Mrs. Fonck, you say, "We need action." However, week after week, I explain the actions that have been taken by the government in this regard. At the beginning of 2021, we extended the social tariff because, at that time, we felt that it was necessary, that the group of people to be helped during the health crisis in the face of the cost of energy should be wider. In October 2021, we decided to extend this measure, as we expected prices to continue to rise. In my view, this extended social rate for BIM, which is wider than the conventional rate, should be extended after next March. This is the work we are doing in this government to extend this measure. It is quite logical that those two million Belgians who have the most troubles should not be left behind from the end of March, while prices remain very high. What does that mean? This means a decrease in the bill of 760 euros per household for this winter. In total, it is two million Belgians who benefit from it. It is true, however, that this is not the only thing the government is working on. Over the last few days, we have looked closely at the increase in revenue and the increase in costs at federal level because of the prices that remain high and have risen further over the last few weeks. There are additional revenues, for example more revenue in the area of VAT and in the area of the redistribution contribution, the contribution we get from the nuclear producers. There is less expenditure in the field of subsidies to offshore wind energy, because if prices are higher, it is natural that less resources should be allocated there to ensure that renewable energy can be economically viable. That's what we figured out. There are, of course, more costs, for example in the social tariff area, which I have just spoken about. That social rate ensures that the category of people who would have the most difficulty paying their bill, who can still pay. If this social tariff is to remain the same, but market prices are to rise at the same time, it will also cost more, both in terms of the classical social tariff and the extended social tariff, which must allow us to continue to help these people. We have been working over the last few weeks to ensure that the balance of both, the increase in revenue and the increase in costs due to higher prices, can be looked at as closely as possible. Let me be clear: the government is, of course, on the side of the people. It cannot be the intention that, if there is a more yield, the government that keeps to itself. If there is more revenue, we must ensure that we can help the people who suffer from it. The question is how this is done. This approach should be targeted, temporary and affordable for the public authorities. Let us be clear that the solution must also be tangible for families. One should not see its impact in the final account in a few months' time. There is a problem at the moment, and that is why we must act. So we are working on a solution that will ensure that the government will use the resources it has to help people at the most difficult time. We must therefore act in the short term, but we must also ensure that we are able to conduct policies. It is uncertain what energy future we will have. We live in an uncertain world and then the government must ensure that it can undertake certain reforms that are slightly longer-term, but which must ensure that we are able to conduct policies. To do so in a careful way, to do so in a fully calculated way, to ensure that all effects were properly considered, to ensure that the decision meets those criteria of temporality, focus and palpability, it takes some time. It takes some time to do so carefully. Within this government, we have always used this method. We'll make sure we can do it carefully. In a complex file like this, which one might say in the past has always been surrounded by a large circle, we do so in a careful, thought-out and calculated way. That is what you can expect from us, and that is what this government is doing and will be able to finish in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u12	Prime Minister, you got ten minutes to answer and you only needed eight minutes to reread last week's text. You didn't add any new element compared to your story last week. You can say that you have no message to the opposition's questions, which are always negative. Then why don't you answer to the government's parties? Every government party except Green, who is not interested in energy prices, has asked questions here. Your own party has also asked questions, the promised liberal fire that is actually a watch flaming flame that is going out. The Christian Democrats asked questions, the Socialists asked questions. You didn't answer. Nothing, nothing, nothing, three times zero. You just recycled your story from last week. That's something green of yours, you're recycling your stories without ever getting anything new. You lead a cyclical government, but somewhere (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u13	Prime Minister, you have pronounced a beautiful laius on the action of your government. In substance, however, on all important and sensitive issues, it is cacophony or immobilism or both. I am sorry to tell you, but this is the case for pensions, tax reform, energy in the medium and long term. And then, I come back, it's still the case with the explosion of energy bills. Your inability to lower them in the short term is blatant. Yet, yes, initiatives have been taken, but they are not enough. And we are not the only ones to say that, since I hear parties in your government saying, "Now, now, now." Yes, but there are moons, ladies and gentlemen, that must be moved! When I hear your party president explain that, basically, measures are needed to reduce the energy bill for an income of up to 4,500 euros, so for a household that earns 9,000 euros (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u14	Prime Minister, your answer was very interesting. Your line of defence is to say that your government has been very quick in some cases, while it is very slow in others. With the former, it is a question of imposing flexibility on workers, forcing them to return to work, etc. When it comes to voting for an increase in the defence budget, dear ecological friends, 10 billion are quickly promised for 2030. On the other hand, when it comes to taking measures for the pension of workers, po-pom po-pom... When it comes to taking measures relating to the purchasing power and the price of energy, po-pom po-pom... This double standard, these two-speed decisions of Vivaldi truly symbolize the class stakes within it. Workers feel a sense of urgency to benefit from measures, because they suffer. Faced with this government that lives at its small po-pom po-pom rhythm provokes anger in them. That's why we're going to show...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u15	Prime Minister, you underestimate the problem of falling purchasing power. You're not even answering. Everywhere there is a fear of permanent inflation, except in Belgium. Meanwhile, you sit back and bicker with your coalition partners, watching mercilessly the impoverishment of our people. With an automatic wage indexing alone, you're not going to get there. Well, Prime Minister, I can't accept your dawdling. You are really doing nothing to protect the purchasing power of our people. You are really doing nothing to make the savings that our people have worked so hard for not just go up in smoke. You really do nothing about the problem of increasing energy poverty. It doesn't bother you. It slips from you like water from a duck. If you had any self-respect, you would have stood here today with a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. There is therefore careful and serious work to be done. In the next few months, we will certainly continue to support the lowest incomes. Mr Hedebouw, instead of always coming here with your show and your pinging, it would please you if you welcomed and applauded the government's decision. In the meantime, this government is working hard to find reasonable solutions for the middle class, without returning the invoice to that middle class. Mr De Roover, I would like to quote a party chairman, who is someone you know fairly well and who recently said the following about the challenges in another government: "I have never known anything other than that the giant buttons will only be cut after a period of tension. Usually you're in a crossroads where you sometimes get down your knees, but it's only when you can't get into a real crisis." Prime Minister, I have every confidence that we will get out of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u17	Prime Minister, if nothing ambitious is done, we run the major risk of a social tsunami. This crisis is not a crisis of a month or even two or three months. So, as with the covid, no matter what, Prime Minister! Whatever it takes! A decision must be taken as a matter of urgency. As head of this government, it is up to you to take charge of things and do what everyone expects, that is, decide on a reliable, fast, effective measure and continue to protect the most vulnerable households by extending the social rate for the year 2022, which is already acquired, you said. Our group is not the group of one proposal, one measure, one idea. Our people are facing a serious and serious emergency and we want the government to act effectively and respond to this emergency without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u18	Prime Minister, all parties are calling for a solution here today. Everyone wants to work on a solution. You yourself speak of the near future. That's important. The will is there, but of course action must be taken now. I sincerely hope that we will not have to stand here again next week, because the longer it takes, the harder it will be for all those who are confronted with the problem. I do not need to stress that you can count on our support. Our proposal is on the table. We expect a quick solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u19	I agree, Prime Minister, that nothing has been done. But sincerely, is the name of Vivaldi associated with a great societal reform so far? As far as pensions are concerned, we are still waiting. I know a kern is scheduled soon. That's why, no doubt, two party presidents of your majority have recently come out to complicate your life, as usual. I admit you're not helped. With regard to taxation, we are still waiting, in such a way that the PS is obliged to go up every three weeks to worry about the state of play in the fight against tax fraud, and he is right. On nuclear power, your indecision is such that you are doing the job of jeopardizing the two possible options, both the extension of nuclear power and the construction of gas-fired power plants. In this connection, you have just spoken of the fact that we had to think about the energy future in a much wider way. I think so, too. When we are about to choose gas-fired power plants as a substitute for nuclear power and, during that time, we have a geopolitical conflict with Russia and gas prices are exploding, it is indeed time to reflect! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I understand, of course, that it's not easy, but a good leader is creative and keeps looking for solutions that everyone in his team can find. Yes, we must do something for the most vulnerable. That is obvious, and everyone agrees on that. But also for those who are not eligible for the social rate, something must be done, because they too are on the verge of doing so. We don't want to leave these people in the cold. For them too, a temporary, sustainable and efficient solution must be found quickly. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us take the opportunity to take structural measures, such as measures on excise duties, because they are targeted and structural. We must try to avoid such a crisis in the future, and this can only be done through structural measures. Let us now finally work on the reform of the energy bill, because after all, we are a reform government, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u21	Mr Minister, my questions are simple. When will you abolish the coronapas? When will this government stop the discrimination and polarisation between vaccinated and non-vaccined? Firstly, this government wants to prolong the epidemic situation in our country even further and thus continue the use of the corona pass. Corona tickets, however, only make for more division in our society. They offer false safety, because vaccinees with such evidence can still get and transfer corona to each other and to people who have been tested. The Covid Safe Ticket is de facto a Covid Unsafe Ticket. Countries such as Spain, Ireland and England are abolishing all the corona measures. Denmark even abolishes the corona rules completely. The Danes once again welcome the life of before corona. What does Belgium do? In Belgium, you are going to prolong the emergency situation, while there is no objective reason for this. It must be particularly useful for your government to be able to rule with power of attorney without Parliament's control. Worse still, where others celebrate the reins, you're even gonna entwine. If you don't get a booster shot, you're gonna lose your coronapas. What a madness! Secondly, Minister, in December you noted that you would never distinguish between a vaccinated child and an unvaccinated child. Today it appears that unvaccinated children should be quarantined for 10 days after high risk contact, but that does not apply to their vaccinated classmates. These rules therefore lead to polarisation, stigmatisation and exclusion of children. That is unacceptable to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u22	Mr Minister, after two years of covid pandemic, Parliament is on the move. Finally, we are organizing hearings and going into a thorough parliamentary debate on covid vaccination. Does this have to do with the fact that your seven-party government is on seven different paths, or does it really have to do with the inherent democratic feeling of you and your government? I do not know, but it is a good thing that we can think together today about very far-reaching measures in terms of legal, medical, ethical, psychological and support. Yesterday, moreover, we received a number of professoral lessons which made us well aware that the measures taken over the last two years have often been too much, too fast and too much looked at by one narrow eyeglass. It is therefore a good thing that we are going along a path together. However, I have a few more questions. How are we doing today with the mandatory vaccination of the care staff? It'll be April 1st in nine weeks and those people don't know where they are yet. What is your government's position today on the mandatory vaccination or vaccination pass? How do you do that now? Finally, very important, in four weeks' time it will be crocus vacation. Our young people who have been vaccinated need a booster shot when they go on multi-day school trips or with the family on vacation to Italy or Austria. However, we do not yet have an opinion from the European Medicines Agency. Will you, like Prime Minister Jambon, talk to these Member States and ensure that they (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we will use an instrument such as the coronapas as long as it is useful. When it is not useful and not necessary, we will not use it. It is useful when there is a lot of virus going around and some people still get seriously ill because of that virus. It is useful to ensure that as many people as possible have been vaccinated and to allow people entering a cafe or restaurant to prove that they have been tested negative, vaccinated or acquired immunity from a recent disease. That's just helpful. Does the pass in itself offer 100% protection? No, the pass does not do that, just as a mouth mask itself does not provide 100% protection and, just as keeping away does not always provide 100% protection. However, it is the combination of these measures that ensures safety. However, when there are a lot of infections in our country today and hundreds of people are still being admitted to our hospitals every day by COVID-19, such measures are absolutely useful. You asked me how we deal with vaccination in children. Firstly, I believe that it is very important that as many children as possible be vaccinated. That's very good. That is also important when we want to keep the schools open. This is important for the well-being of the children themselves. I have always said that you have also referred to the fact that for young children we will make no distinction in their lives based on vaccination or not. It was specifically about children of nine or ten years of age, which was what I said. I did say in De Aangel that we would not make a distinction for children of nine or ten years of age. I'd like to go even further. Also for a boy or a 14-year-old girl, I wouldn't decide that a vaccinated person should go to a sports activity and not a non-vaccine. I wouldn't decide, that's not good. However, when it comes to quarantine, which is a medical measure, on the basis of the scientific advice of our Risk Assessment Group, we indeed decided weeks ago together with the Flemish Government and other sub-governments that a vaccinated 14 or 15 years should not be quarantined after high risk contact, while non-vaccines aged 14 or 15 years should be quarantined. That's very responsible. We have taken that decision on a well-considered basis, including with the Flemish Government. Mrs Depoorter, you referred to the debate that is taking place in Parliament. That is indeed an important debate. The question of whether one can work one day instead of the current coronapas with a mere vaccination certificate, in which people have to prove on a number of occasions that they have been vaccinated, is part of that fundamental debate. So I am not going to anticipate that. I personally think there's a lot to say for a vaccination certificate. Like the coronapas that we use today, this is an instrument to be used when it is necessary and should be placed quietly in the closet when it is not necessary. In fact, we have already clarified this in the discussion on the coronabarometer, in consultation with the Flemish Government. In code red and code orange, something like a coronapas is useful. If the situation gets better, it won't be so useful anymore. We'll put it in the closet quietly. When the sun shines, they put their umbrella in the umbrella stand. The difference between us and others is that we don't want to throw that umbrella away in the container park. After all, it might start raining again someday. We do not therefore exclude these instruments forever. We won't use them if they're not needed and use them when they're needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u24	Minister, it's not right in this country anymore. While Denmark, England, Ireland and Spain are abolishing virtually all the corona measures, this country will extend the pandemic law and continue to apply the coronapas. Open Vld and Vooruit want to tighten the vaccination pass even further as an alternative or synonym for a vaccination obligation. There are objective reasons to doubt the functioning of the coronapas. If that corona pass his target, he better disappear, not by summer, but as soon as possible. It's no longer about the virus, it's about our health, it's about control. Don't give me those horrible tickets. Stop distinguishing between vaccinated and unvaccinated children. This is pure discrimination. Get rid of the QR society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u25	Seven parties, seven opinions, it will be a pleasure to decide within the government whether to work with a pass or not. I look forward to those discussions. Mr Minister, the care staff, for which you have applauded and for which you have repeatedly shown so much respect, do not know today whether it can possibly be dismissed in nine weeks' time. You're not answering. That's disrespectful, isn't it? Then there is the problem of youth. In the absence of an opinion from the EEA, you have no scientific basis. You can ask the High Health Council for advice, but you have no advice from the EEA. Will you talk to those Member States, Italy and Austria? Will you show leadership? Will you ensure that a young person under 18 is not stopped at the border? Do like our Prime Minister, go there and take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u26	Madam President, Minister, four months ago, in our committee, you said with complete conviction, as only you can: 'At the end of January there must be an effective filter for doctors' quotas on the French-speaking side. If this agreement is not reached, the federal plans to respond will be removed. Then medical quotas at federal level will be maintained with federal regulations. The lyrics are ready." Even at that time I was impressed, were it not that I have been standing here 50,000 times on this subject and I have heard these words from other words. But when it comes down to it, it's a pity it stays with words. That was the case with your predecessor, Mrs De Block, and that is the case with you. It's time now, we're at the end of January. So prove me wrong, because this isn't about a failure diverse. After decades of unwillingness along the French-speaking side to follow a federal law, it is time for action. I will take your argument as it stands: yes, there is a shortage of general practitioners in this country. But that has nothing, really nothing, to do with the federal quota. However, the fact that this part-speciality is becoming less attractive to the students. This is also proved by the shortage of general practitioners on the French-speaking side, even though there has never been a brake on the number of students. I'll support you if you want to solve that shortage. But here it is that there is a huge amount in other specialties. And that has been paid for more than 20 years by the Flemings when it comes to overconsumption, when we have been working with quotas for 20 years. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Van Peel, I remain convinced that it is particularly important to have a well-organised planning of the medical offer. This is important for the quality of the profession, important for the quality of training and important for the quality of care. As you know, I am in favour of controlling supply through the influx into the studies. That happens in Flanders. It is now being discussed intensively with the French Community and I hope to get an agreement on it. You are so very indignant about this, but perhaps you should be somewhat relative. You're saying that's been going on for 20 years. Well, there is a year in which there will be no quotas, namely 2022. That's because the government in which the N-VA was in 2016 didn't even decide on the quotas. You are indignant, but the worst year was a year in which the N-VA was in the government and no quota was even set. Keep your feet on the ground a little bit. We're gonna try to resolve it with consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u28	Mr. Secretary, it's time. You're being a little condescending to me. That's your style if you don't get a file in the government. Then you condescend to the opposition member who asks for it. That's your style. In fact, however, you are being condescending about your own words, because in my question I have quoted your own harsh statements. You said the filter should be there by the end of January or the federal level would take over the case differently. You said you'd open your slider. Those are your words, Minister. Word word word word...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u29	Madam President, Minister, blood stocks are now at a critically low level. This is, in any case, what the Belgian Red Cross said this week on the occasion of an umpteenth alert to the population. The reason for this shortage is likely to be the outbreak of contamination resulting from the omicron variant. In fact, people donate their blood and later realize that they are contaminated. They then warn the center that destroys the blood pockets concerned. Sometimes donors don't come to their appointments because they're in quarantine. As a result, several hospitals find themselves in need and would soon be forced to postpone a whole series of non-emergency operations. Concern is growing especially for patients whose health depends on these blood transfusions. To cite just one example, the Red Cross centre in Suarlée, which usually receives 420 litres of blood a day, received only 229 litres of blood on 25 January. This is the third time an alert has been launched in three months, which shows that the situation is worrying. Minister, what do you think of this situation? What avenues do you envisage to address this shortage? Is there a dialogue between the federal state and the federated entities to raise awareness of blood donation? Blood collection is done through several agencies; for example, in Parliament, Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen is responsible for collecting blood. How is the distribution of blood pockets organized according to needs in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u30	Mrs Gilson, I've been very familiar with the calls for donations. The call may be a little too alarmist on the part of French-speaking blood establishments. I draw your attention to the fact that the blood establishments – the main ones of which are Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen and the Belgian Red Cross – help each other when one or more of them are facing acute shortages. I can therefore confirm that Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen, who offers two thirds of the blood products, currently has sufficient stocks to fill the shortages that may exist in other establishments. I can also confirm that there has been no recent request for this from a blood establishment. In fact, the problems of blood product shortages are cyclical. At certain times of the year – at the end of the year, for example – we are used to seeing a decrease in donations and, since the pandemic, these problems are intensifying, for several reasons. We continue to encourage citizens to reduce their number of contacts, which may deter them from going to a blood donation centre. Some people who have just been vaccinated against covid-19 mistakenly believe that they can no longer give blood. That's not true: after two days, they can give blood without a problem. Similarly, some people who have recently contracted covid-19 feel that they cannot give blood. That's right, but only for 17 days after contamination or a positive test. After 17 days, these people can give blood again. So I think there are misunderstandings. There is also the context for the impact of the pandemic and, in this sense, I thank you for this question because false ideas are circulating among the population regarding covid-19 and blood donation. We must try to contradict these false ideas. I believe that blood donation remains an extremely important act of solidarity, perhaps even more so during this period of crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u31	Minister, I thank you for your rather encouraging but somewhat challenging answers, since the alert is given in the media. Furthermore, it would appear that an organization such as Rode Kruis-Vlaanderen would not be aware of shortages on the Francophone side. Good! Perhaps our debate will help to put the points on the i and to reassure us. But we must also revive the motivation of donors by explaining that we can give our blood even if we have just been vaccinated. Blood is life! So, for you and for us, it is obviously very important that a solution be found at all times so that people who need this blood regularly can be reassured and get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u32	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how can we make gambling even more tempting than it is today? This is done by offering gambling, the core business of the gambling industry, in even more places, to as many people as possible, preferably every day. That's exactly why Golden Palace, a gambling company, wants to buy 170 bpost newspaper stores. Golden Palace is not interested in selling newspapers. That newspaper sale is just an alibi to bring his gambling products closer to the customers. I'm not making that up; that's what people say at the company. Madam Secretary, you will agree with me that this goes directly against the government's anti-gambling policy. We don't want to encourage gambling, we want to slow it down. Of course, the opening of 170 additional gambling venues is at odds with that. It would be incredible for us all to be able to take a chance in hospitals, thanks to bpost, a public body, in newspaper shops in train stations, in metro stations, in shopping streets, in shopping centres. That leaves a particularly bitter aftertaste. In that respect, I agree with you, Madam Secretary. Does that mean you weren't aware of the sale in advance? After all, prevention is always better than cure. Colleagues, it must be clear that in Vooruit's view, the board of directors of bpost is making a very serious mistake in selling newspapers to a gambling company. Madam Secretary, what options does the federal government still have so that it doesn't come to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u33	Bpost sells 170 newspaper stores to Golden Palace, a very large gambling company. We shouldn't call each other Lijzebet: these newspaper stores actually become gambling shops. They'll sell newspapers and magazines as a front to get as many people gambling as possible. The Nobel Prize for Ethical Entrepreneurship will certainly not win bpost. We may have reservations about that, but the board is independent. Then what do you do with the passage in the coalition agreement that you will deal very seriously with gambling addiction? I'd say pdoom pdoom pdoom, find the mistake. There is more: I see five other problems related to these so-called newspaper shops. They are located in strategic locations, at airports, in all stations, shopping centres, in short, in places where a lot of people come. There's a lot of young people there, too. Young people under the age of 18 are not allowed to gamble, but who will check that in newspaper shops? Gambling is basically normalized. It is advertised, because on the outside of those shops will not hang the Yupee and the Day All. People who are no longer allowed to enter a real gambling office can of course still enter a newspaper shop. That's just the gamblers. So that is a real blow to the face of everyone who is fighting against it. What will you do with the fight against gambling addiction and, above all, against the daily newspaper dealers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u34	Madam Secretary, your party serves here over and over again, moralising with a lifted finger, legal texts to prohibit gambling. I would like to mention a few examples that I found on Mr Van Hecke's website. "Total ban on advertising and sponsorship," "General age limit at 21 years," "Epis extension control." EPIS is a control system to which 700,000 people are already subject, in particular gamble-addicted people and people who are not allowed to gamble professionally. "Delay from the online playing limit to 250 euros per week" and "Forbidden on 3.3 machines." Madam Secretary, as a supervisory minister, although you are also a member of the Green Party, you are doing the opposite. Bpost has a cash hole of 50 million euros and is looking for money. With these activities, the loss amounts to 21 million euros. What are you doing? You're putting this place on the market. You sell 170 newspaper stores to the gambling industry. The sports betting offices are subject to all kinds of measures. For example, they should not be located near children, especially in the vicinity of schools, and class 2 sports betting offices should not even be in the vicinity of churches. Now you're organizing a sale of newspaper shops to the gambling industry. In the newspapers shops, virtually anything is allowed about gambling, without control, not even by EPIS, so no statutory audit. Mr. Justice Minister, legally a gambling addict is allowed to gamble in a newspaper store. Pom, pom, pom. Madam Minister, Minister, please explain this to me. By the way, I know what a casino is, because I'm building a beautiful copy in our community. Legally, that's 100% fine. It's gonna be the most beautiful building in the world, especially in our country. Now we have such unlawful situations. I therefore urge you to consider what you will do about it legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u35	Madam Secretary, after the privatisation and the sale of bpost bank, the newspaper shops are up. bpost has decided to sell the entire network of 175 newspaper stores to the gambling company Golden Palace. If you say, as you did then, that you were not aware, that there is nothing you can do about it, that you regret the decision, but nothing else, nada, do you know where these shops are located? They are located in train stations, on the sea dike, in large shopping streets, at airports, but also in hospitals, Madam Secretary, where those newspaper shops sell sandwiches, hugs for babies, toys, coloring books and all that stuff. That's where gambling machines will be now, where people can gamble. By doing nothing, you are responsible for the sale to the gambling industry. How chastising is that! The government is a majority shareholder, Madam Secretary. In the private sector, the majority shareholders also decide what happens. You have a great responsibility in this matter. Your political group is also represented on the Management Board by Mr El Ghabri, the political director of Ecolo. Madam Secretary, what will you do to bring these newspaper stores back under the control of bpost, and not of Golden Palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u36	Madam Minister, Minister, gambling must be one of the oldest games. A guess, a wager among each other, that may not always be so guilty, but the excesses, to what it can lead to, are also known. One makes a profit, one loses, one suffers another loss, one wants to make up for it, one takes an extra gamble, and soon one finds themselves in an addiction. Such addictions lead to dramas in families, in families, debts that are built up, lives that are destroyed. The government wants to put a stop to that. Over the past two decades, we have seen more and more gambling agencies appear. The gambling sector appears more and more in our streets, in our football stages, in football teams. Almost every football team has a gambling company as a sponsor. This insipidisation in our society is constantly being strengthened, and the government must try to take ever more stringent measures to limit these practices, such as age limits, wagering limits, trying to work with blacklists, regulating gambling advertising, in short more and more initiatives to curb gambling. There are also legislative proposals circulating. Mr Dedecker has already referred to a proposal from colleague Van Hecke. There is also a bill by Mr Van Hoof which would give the mayors more local participation in these practices. The government is also working on a royal decision on the newspaper shops, because even without this story the newspaper stores were a sector endorsed by gambling companies. These measures are urgently needed. If, at such a time, a public body sells part of its heritage, namely that newspaper stores, to one player in that sector, I wonder: how the hell can we justify this? That is my only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u37	Minister, I will listen carefully to your answers on the regulation of gambling. Madam Minister, most of all I wanted to speak to you as the minister responsible for bpost. It is an autonomous public enterprise and, as such, it has a societal responsibility that goes beyond the tasks strictly listed in a law. In his choices, bpost must be careful not to serve the general interest and an ethical question arises. Is the sale here a sound or ethically relevant direction? The sale of Press Shop and Relay stores to a private operator who is well known for his activity in the field of gambling and betting really raises many legitimate questions. There is the ethical question, but there is also the question of the network. One of the bpost forces is its network of offices and post points throughout the territory. With these access points, it was also an opportunity to have a diversification of proximity to the citizen. These access points also support a pluralistic print press, which is also very important. With regard to the future of these bookshops, what guarantees will these sales be accompanied in terms of employment and support for the print press? Then there is the question of the possible evolution of these bookshops into disguised betting rooms. What guarantees do you have to avoid this, knowing that one of the priorities of this Parliament and the majority is to fight against false bookstores? Minister, we should not lose (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u38	Colleagues, the decision of bpost to sell its 170 newspaper stores to a gambling company is a sheer disgrace and a huge blunder. That decision is incomprehensible, dangerous and contrary to the coalition agreement. We cannot ignore it: gamblers and newspaper stores that are becoming increasingly hidden gambling companies are showing up everywhere. We are constantly confronted with gambling advertising, on the street, on TV, at sports games. For example, 14 out of 16 first-class clubs are sponsored by a gambling company. The power of the sector is growing every day, turnover and profits, of course. The acquisition of these 170 stores will increase that power. That's not innocent. In these newspapers shops up to 200 euros per day can be used on gambling products, that is 6,000 euros per month. And there's no control there either. Those who are blacklisted and are not allowed to gamble in a casino, for example, can go to such a newspaper shop. That is why the sector is also interested in this takeover. Hence the need to extend that ban to the newspaper shops. Proposals on the subject are on the table today. Madam Secretary, has no one really thought about this on the Bpost Management Committee? Isn't there any ethical or moral awareness at that level? There is only one loser: that is the consumer, and everyone who will end up being the victim, because the problem of addiction is unlikely to increase. The profits go to the sector, the costs to society. It is therefore absolutely necessary to consider how that decision can be reversed. Secondly, there must be a serious discussion with the Bpost Management Committee. We must call on them to do so, because we really cannot accept such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I thank you for that, because they give me the opportunity to have the debate with you here that concerns us all, namely what we can do against the gambling addictions and the damage they do. We, and certainly my colleague Van Quickenborne, will talk about it in detail. I'm gonna have to go over a few facts with you anyway. I was informed yesterday, just like all of you, of the transaction that bpost concluded. That might surprise you, because I am indeed a custody minister. However, you need to know what has been discussed here and in committee on many occasions, namely that the autonomy of bpost allows such decisions to be made. This time, not even the board of directors has decided. He has given a mandate to the Management Committee to close the sale. The Governing Board decided that in November 2021. That way, I was informed about the transaction. The arguments are that this is not the core business and that bpost wanted to reject it, because it wants to focus on its other tasks in the context of the logistics of e-commerce. The choice to sell to a gambling company has been explained to me. The CEO told me that he also regretted that the transaction should take place with that group. However, the employment situation had to be maintained and this would allow the newspaper shops concerned to continue their activities. Those are the arguments I've been given. The choice was effectively a commercial choice that could be justified. I responded yesterday. You probably saw that. I indicated that I regretted the transaction. Someone quoted my bitter side taste or taste at such a decision. I've been thinking, too. That buy is not a good signal. You yourself have put forward the right arguments. The government is trying to do everything in its power to tackle and combat gambling addictions. There is legislative work that will contribute to this. I repeat that Mr Van Quickenborne will respond to that. The legislative proposals that have already been discussed should ensure that newspaper business does not become hidden gambling offices. Several members suggested talking. Of course, I'll have a conversation with bpost's management. Even if, according to bpost's statutes, I cannot simply cancel that sale, I will appeal to the management on what is in our charter, that we have concluded in parallel with the management agreement. The charter Responsible Enterprise talks about sustainability, environmental and social sustainability. I will appeal to management on the principles contained in it. Mr Delizée, as you said, I think ethical principles will also need to be discussed and I will be working on them. I'm making this promise to you. It's obvious. I am quite convinced, like you, that the decision on this sale is not a good decision. The government will also take action in the area of regulation. Those newspaper offices are indeed very strategically located. That's why they're interesting to the buyer. You have also said it, this is highly problematic from the point of view of combating gambling addiction. We can indeed try to entangle by means of regulation. We can ensure that people who are on the blacklist, the so-called EPIS list, cannot just enter the newspaper offices to buy their gambling products. We can regulate so that at least that sale will not lead to what the buyer had intended or hoped for. That's a guarantee I'd certainly like to give. I'll put myself behind that. It's not my jurisdiction. Minister Van Quickenborne will talk about this. I have also had a conversation with Mr Mahdi, who has custody of the National Lottery. We will put our heads together to see how we can act quickly in the context of this sale of bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed disturbing to see how gambling is creeping into our society more and more. It can be seen everywhere: on bus booths, on television, in the newspapers, on the shirts of sports teams. Everywhere, we are being struck with the temptation to gamble, even on public broadcasting and even public companies. It's not without consequences. In the 18-25 age group, 42% said they had started to bet more during the covid period. That's alarming! As games of chance become more popular, there is an increase in addiction cases. Like alcohol addiction, it can ruin the lives of those who are victims of alcohol addiction. The consequences can be disastrous for those who lose control and no longer know how to stop in time. That is why we want to limit the lure of gambling. It's about the impact of a billion-dollar business. That billion-dollar business is also sneaking into the daily circuit. Let me be clear: we will not allow newspaper shops to be converted into gambling palaces. By the way, we are constantly seeing mockery shops showing up, where the newspaper rack serves as a pub for a hidden arcade without any control. That is unacceptable. Parliament therefore amended the law last year in order to limit such cowboy practices. The legitimate newspaper shops are our partners in this. At the moment, I am putting the finishing touches to a royal decision that defines what a real newspaper shop is. For example, there will be a requirement for minimum sales of daily, weekly and monthly newspapers, and the number of play equipment will be even more limited. We must also raise the threshold to the aircraft. The rules are clearly minors should not gamble, but the reality is that it is allowed blindly. I read the testimony of an ex-gambling addict on the VRT's website. He said: "Young people can buy a newspaper or a candy, but the other sweets in the showroom are the slot machines. Then there is a great temptation to take a guess out of interest and curiosity." Colleagues, there is only one solution: to equip all play equipment with technology to enable an identity check. In this way we can also protect the people on the famous EPIS list, the black list of people who have turned themselves in as victims of the gambling industry. Mr Van Hecke has put forward an interesting bill on this subject which could form the basis for an effective solution to the problem. The final piece is the entanglement of the gambling ad. It is not possible for everyone to be exposed to the lure of gambling everywhere and continuously, especially not vulnerable people and young people. Here too, I promise you that you will be entangled, which will be in force this year. The fight against gambling addiction is the fight of the government and hopefully also of Parliament. We need to tackle gambling addiction seriously and be firm as well. I want to compare it to smoking and alcohol. Forbidden will not be done, because then we will create an illegal circuit that is dangerous. However, we must regulate and monitor strictly so that we can combat the devastating consequences of gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u41	There was talk of ethical shareholdership. It is time to put that effectively into action. I read in Bpost's press release yesterday that the transaction is expected to be completed by the end of February. This means that there is another month for the government to intervene in the file and to avoid 170 newspaper stores being sold to Golden Palace. You will find the full support in Vooruit in your fight against gambling addiction, but that struggle threatens to get mopping with the crane open, if we let bpost open that crane. We really must do everything we can to prevent these 170 newspaper shops from becoming the gateways to the gambling industry for the millions of Belgians passing through there every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u42	I welcome your initiatives to protect the vulnerable. We are very concerned about the increasing number of gambling addicts. Corona has of course also put a lot of money in the bag. 1 % of those who gamble are really gambling addicted and 3 % have problems. We must be vigilant and take action for them. I particularly welcome your announcement to tackle advertising. It appears from treatments that advertising is the great trigger, making it very difficult for gambling addicts to resist gambling. Thank you very much for taking the matter seriously. The Liberals are indeed not against a guess, as one can drink a drink. But the vulnerable must be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u43	Madam Secretary, I do not doubt your integrity, but I do doubt that of the board of directors. I find it hard to believe you haven't been informed. After all, the board is full of devices from each party, even from Ecolo, with Mohssin El Ghabri, with Jos Donvil from Open Vld and Caroline Ven from CD&V, yet we know nothing and the minister has not been informed. Why don't you explain that? We own 52.06 % of the shares. With 25 % you have a blocking minority. So you can reverse that decision immediately. Minister, on 28 November 2021, you amended the law, allowing you to immediately issue a royal decree and have the newspaper shops checked immediately. Don't throw the baby away with the bath water. You can immediately have control carried out and close them (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u44	Madam Secretary, you argue that the board gives all power to the CEO. That makes you the minister for the sale of bpost and public services. We're not asking for a chat. We ask that the decision be withdrawn. For the CEO and for bpost it is with the planned sale cash register at the expense of the health of the population. As a green minister you must destroy the decision stante pede, so that the sale does not take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u45	Madam Secretary, we know you as a very correct and polite minister. This is clearly how you behave in relation to bpost. You say you'll have a conversation with the CEO. I notice that it does not happen in two directions in a polite way. If you need to hear such a decision in the newspaper, I find that very striking. A conversation won't be enough. We're gonna have to knock a little harder on the table. The government is trying to do something about gambling addiction and then we can't allow such a transaction. So we need to be a little stronger in this respect. Minister, you are announcing rules on newspaper shops. That is a very good thing. We must be aware of the newspaper shops themselves, which do not have it easy either, and are looking for straws to survive. That is a further point of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u46	Minister of Justice, I am pleased to hear that the government and Parliament will move forward in better regulation of betting in bookstores and in the fight against the phenomenon of false bookstores. Minister, I quite agree with our colleague, Joris Vandenbroucke, who tells us that prevention is better than cure. Indeed, I have the unpleasant feeling that politics is still behind schedule and that, in the end, we are always here to repair instead of avoiding the breakage. The question that arises is the following. What is the real weight of the minister in charge of a public enterprise? If you feel that you do not have enough weight in this type of debate, then I invite you to reflect on a regulatory framework. Let's change the frame! We will support you in this reflection so that the government and Parliament can set the political and ethical guidelines on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u47	Madam Minister, in addition to this serious discussion, all the legal means must be considered to reverse that decision. That requires legal investigation, but it is really necessary. We need to make a very clear statement there. Minister of Justice, I know your commitment to tackle the problem of gambling addiction and to tighten up legislation. So I am actually hearing a lot of consensus, at least from whom we have spoken. We don't know about the others. I hope that this consensus will also be there when our legislative proposal with amendments is again before the Committee on Justice next week so that we can tighten up legislation by a large majority. If you say "a," say "b." It is high time public health took precedence over the profit motive of such multinationals, which are thinking only of one thing: bringing in billions of profits at the expense of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u48	Madam President, the Secretary of State, this question was addressed to the Prime Minister, but I thank you for responding on behalf of the government. I hope that your answer will take into account the skills of your colleagues. I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's speech at the beginning of the afternoon, just before our sitting. Seventy-seven years ago, the world discovered the absolute horror that so far, despite the warnings, it had not wanted to see. The liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp and then of the other Nazi camps would bring to light the unspeakable fury of the Holocaust. Even today, in the spans of death camps and concentration camps, everything recalls fear, submission to executioners who denied all humanity to their victims. None of us, seventy-seven years later, can forget this tragedy. None of us can imagine that such events can happen again in Europe. However, today, both in our home and in neighbouring countries, the far right insidiously is progressing. According to a recent IPSOS poll commissioned by the European Jewish Association, one in four Belgians would show themselves, I quote, "moderately anti-Semitic". These are words that leave me speechless. At the same time, younger generations are less and less familiar with this dark page of European history. Again in 2022, unacceptable acts occur too often. I am thinking of the football fans' songs that I denounced in committee. I am thinking of these protesters who are making dramatic amalgams between yellow stars and vaccine passes, amalgams, I say, relayed without any discomfort by a member of the Vlaams Belang in the Health Committee this week. As a democrat, very committed to promoting the work of memory and the fight against impunity and negationism, I must of course denounce it here. Moreover, you know that it tarnishes the image of our country. Should I remind you of the lively controversy surrounding Alost's carnival? Madam Secretary of State, what concrete measures should the government take and will it take to better combat anti-Semitism in our country, combat impunity and guarantee the preservation of memory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, this afternoon, we have just commemorated with emotion and solidarity – and I thank you for organizing this event, Madam President – the International Day dedicated to the memory of the victims of the Holocaust. Seventy-seven years ago, the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp was liberated, showing the world the horrors that were committed against Jewish people. If these dark hours of our collective history seem to us officially behind us, we can never lower our guard, because anti-Semitism remains a scourge, a cancer for our society, as well as any form of hatred towards skin colour, religion, sexual orientation or gender. We must never lower our guard, for, yes, today in 2022 in Belgium, words, references, anti-Semitic songs are still constantly spoken; whether in football stadiums, in folk events, on social networks or on public monuments. Or even here in this Parliament, no later than last Tuesday in the Health Committee, during which a member of the extreme right compared health measures with the horror experienced by Jews during the Second World War. It's abject! On behalf of my group, I condemn unreservedly all these acts, all these words, all these public statements, because they shame us collectively! Madam Secretary of State, what are the plans of the anti-Semitism watchdog unit? What are the other projects you are driving? What are the links between the national plan – which you are busy developing – against acts of racism and anti-Semitism? Finally, what words do you and the government as a whole speak in international forums?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions on this very important day, and I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and our President for their very moving words about the atrocities that took place over 77 years ago. I too would like to join in paying tribute to the victims of Nazism and their loved ones. Your suffering will not be forgotten. This morning, I was able to visit the Dossin barracks where thousands of people were detained and then deported to Auschwitz-Birkenau. The testimonies and memories we can see there are poignant and terrifying. We know that anti-Semitism has never disappeared from Europe or our country. At a time when racism, self-absorbing and the rejection of the other are returning to the public debate, as you have just said, we must all act as political leaders. We have an immense responsibility. I was discussing this morning with Mrs Vanden Daelen, Deputy Director of the Memorial, and she told me how important it is for each individual to be responsible and to be extremely vigilant about any act of racism, anti-Semitism or any tendency to hatred. She explained to me how much if some individuals had rebelled and at times had been able to denounce certain facts or say no, it could have changed the course of history. History has shown us that hatred has no boundaries. As you said, Mr Vande Burre, it is essential to organize at an international level. A few months ago, the European Commission presented the European Union's strategy on combating anti-Semitism and promoting Jewish life. This strategy is a first that demonstrates a strong European commitment. At the Malmö International Forum on Holocaust remembrance and the fight against anti-Semitism, Belgium congratulated the Commission on this plan and presented its commitments in this regard. The federal government makes the fight against anti-Semitism a priority. We have expressed our will to achieve a national plan to combat racism that includes the fight against anti-Semitism and provides for great progress in recording and combating hate speech. As you know, this is an initiative on which we are working hard with the federated entities. The political context of our country is sometimes complicated, but I am convinced that all political levels are aware of the urgency of adopting this plan and that it will meet the challenges, so that we can effectively combat racism in all its forms. In parallel with the development of this plan, we have not waited for action. Under my coordination, the Anti-Semitism Watch Unit meets regularly. It is composed of representatives of the offices of Justice, Home Affairs, the police and security services as well as the most important representatives of the Jewish communities of Belgium. The initial objective of the Watch Cell was the security of places of worship of Jewish communities. Of course, that remains a priority. But we also know that the fight against anti-Semitism is a battle that must be waged in cultural terms, in education, on social networks and through prevention. That is why I am in the process of deepening the work of the Watch Cell to work also on other topics. I will soon begin cooperation with the federated entities so that I can also establish links between the different levels of power. I would also like to thank the Jewish organizations for their ongoing commitment and cooperation. The main stakeholders must be at the heart of our reflections and decisions. In addition, I am developing a project to combat all forms of racism and discrimination in the football community, in collaboration with the Pro League. The Pro League and the Dossin Barracks are already organizing training and awareness-raising campaigns on the fight against racism and discrimination within and around football stadiums, but what is heard and sometimes seen among supporters shows that there is an urgent need to intervene and go further. Finding the most relevant mode of intervention is my priority, and I was discussing it this morning with those responsible for the Memorial. It is also important to act upstream, with supporters who have not yet committed acts or made anti-Semitic statements. As soon as next week, my firm will meet again with representatives of the Pro League to refine this project. I would also like to welcome the initiative of the Minister of Mobility and the Senate to launch an independent inquiry to provide answers on the role that SNCB played in deportation. All these initiatives show that the government is fully engaged in the fight against anti-Semitism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Colleagues, ignorance leads to fear; fear leads to hatred and hatred unfortunately leads to violence. The anti-Semitism against the Jews actually affects us all as democrats. It concerns society as a whole, as you said. I see with starvation beyond the discourse, beyond the commemorations, that this scourge is always well present in us. Until the end, we must hunt him down, condemn him, leave no respite to the authors. Justice must not leave anyone unpunished. Madam Secretary of State, at the political level, there is of course a catalogue of intentions. There are commitments at European level but, as you said, there is also a national plan, a watchdog unit, a team of projects against discrimination in the world of football. All this is important but work faster and harder, especially on the educational level. As a Liberal, I will conclude by quoting Victor Hugo, who invites us to meditate on these words, colleagues: "Freedom begins where ignorance ends."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, your answer demonstrates the voluntarism with which you take this case in arms-the-body, especially since you have not waited until today, this important day, to do so. The international level is particularly important, since it is known that this type of scourge, such as anti-Semitism, affects all countries. At the level of environmentalists and my group, I wanted to repeat that we must never let go of anything with the other democrats, with the other democratic parties. In practice, it means that if there is even one ounce of hatred in an online publication, in a field or in a football stadium, in Parliament, we have to fight. We have to oppose. We have to report. We must take legal action if necessary because, unfortunately, hatred is growing in our society and it is relayed in this Parliament, in society, by political parties. Not to denounce him is to be an accomplice. We will denounce and fight!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u53	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u54	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, you have received an amended agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u55	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dieter Vanbesien, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u56	Madam President, in committee we had a good exchange of views on this dossier. It looks pretty technical, but it has a big interest. That is why I decided to subscribe to the list of speakers. In plenary too, we must pay sufficient attention to the quality of the accounts. For example, colleagues sitting in other committees can see what is going on. Firstly, it is new that the Court of Auditors has to certify the accounts. This was introduced on the basis of a European directive. Unfortunately, the analysis is devastating. The Court of Auditors has three judgments. It can say that the quality of the accounts, the state's accounts, is good. Or she could make a negative judgment. In the worst situations, the Court abstains when the quality is too poor and inadequate to take a position on certification. Unfortunately, the federal accounts are in that last category. This also applies to the Brussels accounts. Secondly, what are we going to do about it? I would like to draw colleagues' attention to the good report of the discussion in committee. Each group has expressed its willingness to actively explore ways of improving the quality of the accounts. How is that possible with the operational follow-up? Do you need any legal adjustments? I myself asked the Secretary of State what steps are being taken in the short term. Mr Dieter Vanbesien has just said the same thing: "I would like to have an overview of the measurable objectives that the Secretary of State wants to achieve in the short term. In this way, the members of the committee can actively monitor progress and contribute to it." Mr Piedboeuf, who is also chairman of the Sub-Committee on Auditor's Office, has the same words from the MR. He asked the Secretary of State what concrete steps it would take to improve the quality of the annual accounts. Mr Leysen also took the same view, namely that priorities should be set for a concrete roadmap. So there was a willingness in the committee to work together on this. Thirdly, there is good news, because there is also the willingness of the Secretary of State. That is no surprise, because we have good cooperation with the Secretary of State in this area, to improve the quality of the accounts, to increase transparency and to take specific steps forward. I would also like to point out that the Secretary of State made a realistic statement. In a way, I am now presenting the report of the committee meeting, but I think it is important for everyone to hear this. The Secretary of State says she will take active steps to improve, she will work hard with her services to shorten the certification report and that list of comments every year. At the same time, it says, very realisticly, that it is impossible to promise that all this will be resolved in the short term. However, it promises a concrete short-term roadmap in the first trimester of this year. That is an important commitment. That is where my report goes, and I would like briefly to send a further political message. We will, of course, follow this closely, and I am glad that every group is equally enthusiastic about announcing that it will do so. However, I am concerned not only about the quality of the accounting certification process, but also about the role that some institutions play or can only play in it. It is quite clear that the Court of Auditors should have additional capacity and that the audit perimeter should be extended. The Court of Auditors is itself a party to this request. The government has been announcing this for some time, but we have not yet seen a legislative initiative. It can be arranged for a piece by royal decree, but Parliament has not yet received any texts. In the meantime, the legislature is progressing. It is not just about accounting, not just about the way the figures are put in the tables, but of course about the figures themselves. That barometer is a different one than the coronabarometer is more likely to be in bad weather. I refer to recent media reports on the necessary plans for strengthening purchasing power, reducing VAT and some other dossiers that the government apparently wants to decide in one package. We still have to wait and see if that works, although it looks like no kumbaya will be sung this week, on verra. What worries me in this particular case is how much it will cost. Madam Secretary of State, in that regard, I think you should knock harder on the table. Proposals continue to circulate on very fundamental issues, but in particular there is a great deal of lack of information about their cost. I would even like to point out contradictions within your own political family. When we look at what the additional revenue from that VAT is, your own party chairman says that we will have more VAT revenue because the electricity will be more expensive. It would be about EUR 500 million that we will be able to give back to the people. That same week, you wrote in an opinion piece in Knack that this is not true, that we cannot distribute an additional EUR 500 million. Two days later, I read again in the newspaper that both Minister Van der Straeten and Finance Minister Van Peteghem say it will not be 500 million, but 800 million. Madam Secretary of State, I hope you will stand up and say that it cannot go on like this. If you want to keep proper accounts and have a step-by-step plan for this in the first trimester and you commit yourself to it, then I hope that at the same time you say that you will not stop figures that are air and fiction. In this respect, a political update of a very interesting and correct discussion in the committee on this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, the Court of Auditors has not only monitored the implementation of the budget, but also the annual accounts of the public authorities since last year. I quote the Court of Auditors: "Because the Court of Auditors has not been able to obtain sufficient and sufficient information to carry out the audit as a basis for its judgment, it is abstaining on the annual accounts of the federal state for 2020," the annual accounts before it. This can be read in the first, destructive judgment of the Court of Auditors on the financial statements of the federal state. In short, the federal government's financial statements are a complete mess. Only the Flemish accounts were largely approved by the Court of Auditors. The general accounts of the Walloon Region and the French Community were condemned, and after the Brussels accounts, the federal government must now get away with abstinence. That is actually even worse, because it shows that the Court of Auditors is not even able to collect enough information to assess the quality of the accounts, and that is quite dramatic. I quote again the Court of Auditors: 'The account does not give a true picture of the financial situation and the state of assets of the general administration'. It's written in black and white by the Court of Auditors. For certain headings, many transactions have not been entered in accounts or are incorrect. According to the Court of Auditors, the problems lie mainly in tangible and intangible assets, stocks, commissions, tax claims and financial resources. The Court of Auditors is talking about, and I quote: 'a permanent lack of knowledge and control of accounting operations in the departments'. The same government, Imagine, expects businesses and citizens to deliver their documents correctly. The Court finds that the reporting of tax revenues contains significant uncertainties and shortcomings. The departments often use different valuation rules, which are, moreover, 'lacunary and too little precise'.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u58	The accounts of the stocks and of the tangible fixed assets of general administration also show significant uncertainties and shortcomings so that neither completeness nor accuracy can be ensured. In addition, there are missing staff costs, missing bank accounts and greenhouses. Five similar entities have not even submitted their accounts for 2020 or have done so in a way deemed insufficient by the Court of Auditors. Moreover, the transactions of the consolidated entities have not been consolidated by a method consistent with the principles and usual rules of double accounting. A company should risk that in our country! She'd have a hell of a fine waiting for her. In addition to the uncertainties already mentioned, the Court of Auditors has identified significant underestimates, in terms of provisions of no less than EUR 3.2 billion and in terms of claims of EUR 1.2 billion. Debts have been misbooked for EUR 1.4 billion, revenue for EUR 0.3 billion and costs for an additional EUR 1 billion. Madam Secretary of State, I am now in Parliament for almost half a period. Every year, the Secretary of State or the Minister responsible comes here with a lot of good intentions. We are also in the period of good intentions. It is the time of the year to give out these good intentions, but no matter how well they are meant to be, you forget them just as quickly. Every year you repeat the same thing, you know what the mistakes are, but don't solve them. Hence the warm call to finally grab the state's accounts with both hands and make sure that they are in order. The Flemish Interest cannot possibly approve what is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u59	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, it is extremely difficult to approve the general account of the General Administration for the year 2020 after reading the 178th Cahier of the Court of Auditors. The verdict of the Court is harsh. I quote: "The annual accounts do not give a fair picture of the financial and property situation of the General Administration." The shortcomings are not new, but what is worrying is that the Court of Auditors finds that there is no improvement. I quote: "Despite the primacy of the General Administration within the Federal State and the certification of the annual accounts of the Federal State from the financial year 2020, the Court of Auditors notes that there are no structural improvements in the quality of these annual accounts of the General Administration." There is therefore a structural problem which is clearly not being addressed at this time. I quote the Court of Auditors: "The Court also stresses that the persistence of a lack of knowledge and control of accounting operations by the departments does not allow for structural solutions to the problems it has identified since the start of the FEDCOM project. Thus, departments do not sufficiently and uniformly follow the instructions of the Federal Accountant at annual and monthly closures." It is therefore questionable whether there is also a shortage of staff, given the downsizing of the federal public service for many years. These findings are all the more regrettable since, from the accounts for the budget year 2020, the annual accounts of the Federal State are submitted for certification to the Court of Auditors. And we start with a lamentable failure. The Court of Auditors makes no opinion on the annual accounts of the Federal State. Why? Because it was unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to carry out the audit work that formed the basis for its opinion on the General Administration's general account. I will conclude my speech by referring to one last problem. Again, I quote the Court of Auditors: "In accordance with Article 110 of the Act of 22 May 2003, the accounts must include not only the balance sheet, the profit and loss account and the summary account for budgetary operations, but also a supporting annex. However, no royal decree has yet been issued to clarify the content of the supporting annex." Madam Secretary of State, following all these observations, it is impossible for us to approve the general account of the General Administration. The PTB will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loones has very faithfully reflected the essence in the first part of his speech. In the second part, as usual, he switched from compliments to more classical opposition language. I started my career in the audit and so it was not surprising to me that the Court of Auditors cannot certify these accounts. This is not a new problem, it has been dragging on for a long time. It is true that it is the first time, but the challenge is, of course, a well-formed, well-accompanied, well-managed administration, which has the right corporate culture, not only to produce documents and figures, but also to display a true financial statement. The various colleagues, and of course the report itself, have indicated where there is work to be done. I am certainly pleased that we have a Secretary of State who takes this very seriously. That's the beginning of any improvement. It is, of course, also the duty of all ministers to ensure that their services, the administrations and organisations that fall within their remit make this a priority. This is a wake-up call, a late wake-up call. We are lucky to have that certification obligation. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will ensure that the necessary steps are taken. However, we must also be realistic; this is not just a task for the Secretary of State; it is a task for the whole government, for all ministers, for all heads of department, administrations and management of companies and institutions covered by this reporting and certification obligation. We will approve this and follow very closely what steps are being taken. We will also ensure that everyone is placed in charge of their responsibilities, including in the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u61	Colleagues, thank you for your comments. I haven't really heard any questions, nor any questions I think I have to answer. We have already discussed a great deal in committee. I can only repeat that I am committed and will try to improve the accounts step by step. I have also explained in committee that there are a few quick fixes, so things that we can correct in the relatively short term, provided the necessary efforts are made. We will already include that commitment in the 2021 accounts. We are already working on this. The further roll-out of PersoPay will also ensure this. The commitment is there and we are working on it. As Mr Loones has pointed out, there are more difficult issues. I have indicated in committee that some things will not be possible in one year, however sorry I am. As Mr Leysen said, I am working with my fellow ministers. After all, all FPS and institutes have to work together for this. So we're working on that, that's my commitment. Mr Vermeersch, it is about intentions. You claim that I've been sitting here for years with my intentions, but you're talking about my predecessors. I know that. However, I am committed. One step at a time, we are trying to improve things. You also know that there was a serious delay in the accounts. We have now updated everything up to this year. We are also working to improve quality. I hope to be here in 2023 with a better report from the Court of Auditors. I'm very glad you all agreed to cooperate with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u62	Madam Secretary of State, Mr Leysen, I would still like to respond, because you cover all this with the cloak of love. I have quoted from the Court of Auditors' report. That's downright destructive. Imagine your accountant performing this. Let me read out: "There is a permanent lack of knowledge. Not a true image. Many transactions have not been booked or have been misbooked. There are significant uncertainties and shortcomings. There are missing bank accounts and greenhouses." How can we justify this? Madam Secretary of State, you say you will come up with some quick fixes. With those quick fixes, we'll have the same problem again next year. With those quick fixes you won't get there, you'll have to work much more thoroughly. We cannot accept the way in which you conduct this policy and the way in which it is disguised by Open Vld. We certainly will not approve of this design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u63	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u64	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2348/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2348/1) The bill has 10 articles, as well as tables in the annex. The draft law contains 10 articles as well as tables in annex. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Sander Loones, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u67	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2404/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2404/3) The bill has 17 articles. The draft law contains 17 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u68	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u70	Mr President, for the sake of clarity, this draft law contains many necessary reforms in the health insurance legislation. There are even those who snuck into it after a persistent questioning. In other cases, I was less successful with that. But this is where we did it. For example, from now on, the auditors responsible for checking the accounts of the insurance institutions can only be identified with the consent of the CDZ. It will also check the independence of the auditor. This does not ring a bell for everyone, but with that independence of the auditors one could sometimes ask questions in the past. It is a good thing that this is being dealt with now. Nevertheless, we are going to abstain. Unfortunately, we do have reservations about other decisions in the draft. For example, there is the abolition of the prohibition of comparative advertising by health insurance funds. In our view, this could lead to even more risk selection by the sickness funds on the basis of compulsory supplementary insurance. It cannot be the intention that health insurance funds should be given more opportunities to commit rich and healthy customers to reducing their costs. They already have this tendency, as they try to bind as many customers as possible with a benefit. I do not think it is right to optimise this in the other direction. The many reforms to strengthen the control and control of the national associations of sickness funds and MOBs are certainly justifiable. However, we have the impression that the government sometimes forgets that the federations are not always the most objective auditors. It is therefore also the task of the CDZ to monitor the internal control and audit of the national federations. They simply do not have the opportunity to do so, and this bill does not give them the opportunity to do so either. That is why we will abstain. That's all I need to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u71	Mr President, my group will also abstain. As I have already mentioned in committee, we believe that the present draft law only strengthens the role of the national federations by increasing their control over the sickness funds themselves, for example when it comes to the election or dismissal of directors. With this greater power of control, the national associations can therefore further limit the autonomy of the sickness funds and put greater pressure on their individual directors. The health insurance funds are thus losing their independence. Moreover, the government's desire to strengthen the national federations is reflected in developments in the field, where, for example, we are going to move from 44 to 22 sickness funds this year. Are the national associations not more likely to become an unnecessary intermediary between the sickness funds and the Health Insurance Office? One of our main criticisms is the increasing pressure from the federal level, in which the federal control authority actually gains more power over powers in the Länder. This is to a large extent a sneak re-federalisation of the powers of the Länder. You will not be surprised that we are absolutely opposed to this. Administrative simplification is not going to be easy either. The individual health insurance funds are burdened with a lot of extra administrative burdens. The law is clearly written from the perspective of the federations, who want to draw the sheet towards them. I asked in committee whether it would not have been better for a politically independent institution to control the sickness funds and the non-profit organisations linked to them. As far as we are concerned, that is the only correct and correct way of working. Now there will be a cascade of checks which will certainly not make the whole thing any clearer. The question is also whether with this amendment of the law the fraudulent practices that have emerged are now definitely a thing of the past. The national federations will therefore be given that responsibility. I wonder if they will be able to show the courage to intervene. (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u72	Are you asking for the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u73	No, I am not asking to speak, Mr President. It's an excellent design.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u74	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u75	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (291/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2391/4) The bill has 20 clauses. The draft law has 20 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Steven Matheï, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u78	Mr President, I shall begin with two general comments. Firstly, crypto-coins are all too often mentioned in Parliament and also in this text in one sentence with crime, terrorism and fraud. That is, of course, a very scary approach to this new technology. Not every crypto coin holder is a criminal, a terrorist or a fraud. Secondly, for our party, cash payments in our society must always remain possible. Crypto coins are not only used for regular transactions; their use also entails some risks. That's what the bill's about. For example, malicious organisations can be effectively financed through crypto coins. So we must not be blind to the fact that criminals and terrorists can quickly collect and launder cash using crypto coins. The Council of State rightly notes that the reasons put forward by the Government to justify the exclusion of providers of virtual currency services governed by the law of a third country are irrelevant in the light of the purpose. They also contradict Article 191 of the Constitution, read in conjunction with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution and with the principle of proportionality. Of course, the Constitution is not a piece of paper. That is why we will abstain from voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u80	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2383/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2383/3) The title in French has been amended by the commission in draft law amending the law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the limitation of the use of cash in order to introduce provisions relating to the status and control of providers of virtual currency exchange services and legal currencies and providers of preservation portfolio services". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill amending the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the restriction of the use of cash in order to introduce provisions on the status and control of providers of virtual currency exchange services and legal currencies and providers of preservation portfolio services." The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u82	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u83	Jean-Marc Delizée, Christophe Bombled, Marie-Colline Leroy, Nahima Lanjri, Maggie De Block, Anja Vanrobaeys, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u85	Mr President, I refer to the written report, with express thanks to the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u86	We associate ourselves with your thanks to the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u87	Mr President, I note that the Minister for Pensions is not present. Does Mr Vandenbroucke take note of the honours? No problem. Let me outline the context. In July 2021, Belfius Insurance and Ethias terminated the existing group insurance for local and provincial administrations, with the end date 2021. This decision, which is somewhat regrettable, required the VVSG to respond quickly and accurately. At present, an agreement with OFP Prolocus is being finalised to deal with the gap that had arisen. The initiative, which is now being taken by all the federal majority parties, aims to set up a purchasing centre and to overcome this gap by means of a public invitation to tender. We regret that this initiative must be taken by the federal authorities. That might as well have happened from Wallonia and Brussels, because that seems to be what is left behind. We are not against the principle of the bill, but that is the first reason why we will abstain. Then I come to the second reason why we will abstain. We are all engaged in legislative work. We all want to ensure that there is good work done in this Chamber. We had asked in committee to submit this bill, which is actually a disguised draft law, to the Council of State by urgent procedure. It was not considered necessary. We regret that. These are the two reasons why we will be abstaining later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u88	Then I give the floor to Mrs Samyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many contractual officials receive a supplementary pension under the so-called second pillar through a pension fund. The Belfius Insurance and Ethias consortium, which managed this fund for 12 years, completely unexpectedly terminated this agreement in mid-June last year with effect from 1 January this year. As early as 22 June, I put a question to the Minister for Pensions, Mrs Lalieux, but it was not dealt with in committee until 29 September. At that time, the Minister was still quite at ease in the situation. The Flemish provincial and local authorities would take matters into their own hands and no decision had yet been taken for Brussels and Wallonia alone. It wasn't until 7 December that the Minister's verdict fell on the bus. Obviously, therefore, Brussels and Wallonia did not manage to conclude a new agreement themselves and had to seek the help of the federal government. The government parties then submitted a bill to give the Federal Pension Service the power to issue a public tender. This proposal was presented to the committee with urgency last week. This initiative, as we are more and more used to purple-green, comes late in the day and makes it appear that there is a lot more going on and that it is not easy to relocate on the market. The situation on the financial market will not be strange. Under political pressure, the European Central Bank has reduced long-term interest rates in such a way that fixed-income investments are no longer viable. Such pension funds should not be used indefinitely on the stock exchange. The fact that we still have to launch a public invitation to tender, while there has been a conscience for more than six months that the contract has been terminated, is shameful. The second pillar for these contractual officials is also not guaranteed, unless the government will take care of it from 1 January until a new society is found. Moreover, a public tender takes almost a year. The Flemish interest is not against this proposal. In the interests of the officials concerned, we will support this, but the delay in doing so is a sign of the way in which this government is catching up with the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more and more local public servants are contract workers. However, for a position of equivalent rank, a former contract staff member will receive a pension of more than 40 per cent less than the pension received by his former statutory colleague. It is in order to mitigate this difference that municipalities have the possibility to take up a supplementary pension for their contractual staff. It was, of course, the cold shower in June 2021 for the local authorities, who had the bad surprise to learn, by means of the press, that the consortium Belfius Insurance and Ethias wished to terminate unilaterally the framework agreement for the management of supplementary pensions for contract agents of local and provincial administrations, from 1 January 2022. At the time of the announcement, like many other colleagues, I asked the Minister of Pensions here to know what action would be taken on the lay-off organized by this consortium. The concern of the 859 administrations concerned was perfectly legitimate and still so today. The Minister was reassuring, confirming, on the one hand, that this decision would not have any impact on the supplementary pensions of the 96 000 members of the contract staff concerned and, on the other hand, ensuring that steps were already being taken with the Unions des Villes et Communes. However, to ensure the sustainability of this supplementary pension mechanism, it is essential to designate a new insurer. This implies the drafting of a specification and the award of a public contract in a short time and for a very complex area. It goes without saying that for a small commune - and I myself am the mayor of an entity of 5,000 inhabitants - it is impossible mission! It should also be stressed that the federated entities have expressed the wish that the federal level should take an initiative, for several reasons. Firstly, it is the administrative complexity of the matter, as I have just said. Secondly, I must mention the economies of scale that can be achieved through the organization of a large market. Thirdly, we must take into account the risk to local authorities of an increase in the accountability contribution to the consolidated pension fund if a solution is not implemented quickly. The mission was therefore entrusted, for its experience and expertise, to the Federal Pension Service (FPS), while at the same time ensuring the cost of the service by the beneficiaries themselves. But in order for this task to be carried out, a legal basis is needed. That is why today we will decide on an amendment to the Act of 18 March 2016 relating to the Federal Pension Service, in order to include the task of purchasing power plant as a new legal mission of the SFP. Ladies and gentlemen, the mechanism that will be put in place will give a breath of oxygen to the local authorities, who will be able to continue to adhere to this second pillar in favour of their contractual staff. It will also give the possibility, in particular to some municipalities which had not yet subscribed to a second pillar, to remedy this by joining the new purchasing centre set up by the federal authority. After the vote that will take place today, it is only to be hoped that the companies will respond to the public procurement which will be launched for the designation of a pension body which will be responsible for the management of the second pillar of pension from 1 January 2022. Finally, my group hopes that regular monitoring of the various stages of progress in this matter can be carried out in full transparency, both at the level of government and at the level of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u91	We have heard today that 96,000 contractual staff on local and provincial boards have a second pillar pension to supplement their statutory pension. Until recently, Belfius and Ethias were responsible for this. After 12 years, however, they unilaterally ended the agreement. Hundreds of local authorities must therefore urgently seek a solution from 2022 onwards. An additional problem is that the RSZPPO, the authority responsible for issuing the public contract, has ceased to exist. This bill must adapt a sleeve to that by having the Federal Pension Service take up that task. We understand that a solution must be found, but now that contractual staff are questioning their second pillar pension in any case, we are still asking ourselves a few questions about that second pillar. Firstly, there is uncertainty. Who thought five years ago that Belfius and Ethias could just cancel their contract? Who thought that the guaranteed percentages of the workers' system would fall from 4.75 % to 3.25 % and then even 1.75 %? We have said it several times here, investing in this second pillar is investing in uncertainty. They always go with the insurance companies, but they only want maximum profits. If the government now says it wants to extend the second pillar to all workers, it will certainly not be the last time that we will be sitting on this. Let us be clear, the first pillar is pure. We are certainly with that. In the second pillar, however, people's money is being used. I can assure you that we will return to that point on several occasions. After all, we must find another solution here. Us. Second of all, you guys are gonna be late with this. In the summer it was already known that they would cancel their contract. It is now January and the tender has yet to begin. Before everything will be complete, it is easy a year later. The good thing is that this will happen with retroactivity. We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal, albeit with a great deal of reluctance, because we must. After all, people's money is being played with. We do not support these second pillar schemes, but we are talking about the money of thousands of workers. They're entitled to that money.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u92	Madam President, the framework agreement was terminated by insurers Belfius Insurance and Ethias. As a result, the provincial and local authorities had to look for a new manager of the second supplementary pension pillar for their contractual officials. This bill is the legal basis for the issuing of a public contract by the Federal Pension Service. This service will also act as a central purchasing body, only a new legal basis was needed. It is important to find a solution for the relevant contractual officials of the provincial and local authorities as regards the building up of their pension rights through the second pillar. For Open VLD, it is important that access to the second supplementary pension pillar is guaranteed and increased, although it remains for this specific dossier until the boards can finally sign up for it. During the discussions in committee, I indicated that it is important to know how the specifications will be drawn up, how the procedure will be launched and, finally, under what conditions the final award will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u93	Colleagues, it has been said here several times that the draft law provides a legal basis for local and provincial authorities to build up the supplementary pension for their contractual staff after the unilateral withdrawal of Belfius and Ethias. Mr Van der Donkt regretted that the problem was being dealt with by the federal authorities. I would like to point out that, at the request of the Walloon and Brussels administrations in particular, we give the Federal Pension Service the power to act as a central purchasing body. This results in economies of scale and reduces the planning burden for local authorities. So this centralization is a good thing. It is also a matter of urgency, as there is a risk that the contribution of local and provincial authorities will be increased. It has all taken a lot of time, because it also required consultation in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution. The most important thing is that there is a solution for the contractual staff. Of course, we also consider a strong first pillar to be important, and the government has already taken steps forward in this respect. On the other hand, those contractual employees must also have the guarantee that they can build on their supplementary pension. I have also asked in committee what conditions and guarantees are included in the specifications, under which staff members are entitled to a good supplementary pension. A pension fund has been chosen because it is the most advantageous solution. The tendering process must certainly also take account of sustainable criteria. The Minister for Pensions is currently analysing all pension funds and supplementary pension insurance. Anyone who invests money in a fund in order to enjoy a dignified old age at a later date must be able to rely on the money being invested in companies that guarantee a safe future. That is not always the case at the moment. A lot of those funds invest in fossil fuels. The sustainability of investment must therefore also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u94	Madam President, the minister is not here, and this is a particularly important issue for our communes. Municipalities are fundamental players in political action and in proximity to citizens. The municipalities account for 35 per cent of our country's public investment. This is an extremely important issue for the short, medium and long term. Colleagues recalled the decision of Ethias and Belfius and this is a problem both in substance and in form. I do not know if there have been any prior contacts, but the minister did not intervene in this direction when she had to explain the situation to us after she discovered in the press the decision of Ethias and Belfius. It was essential to find a solution to this problem. The solution on the table is a central purchasing centre for provincial and local governments and a new public procurement contract for the designation of a pension organization to be responsible for the management of the second pension pillar as of January 1, 2022. We will support this solution, but it seems to us important to convey a number of messages. The first is to have a well-built specification to avoid the same troubles that we experienced in 2021 with Belfius and Ethias. The Minister will be fully accountable for this. The second message is that the government agreement contains a number of promises. I reread one of these: "In keeping with the minimum guaranteed performance targets and prudential rules to be applied by pension funds and insurers, the government will examine the possibility of encouraging investment policy commitments in the second pillar. These commitments will aim, on the one hand, to encourage the exit of investments in sectors harmful to the environment and health, in particular fossil fuels, and, on the other hand, to encourage investments in the energy transition of our economy." This second message is to remind the Minister of this commitment. We will pay attention to what has been promised in the government agreement. The third message that I would like to convey to the minister is that it is urgent – and I should even like to speak of extreme urgency – to find a solution to the thorny issue of accountability assessments. Communal finances are not in a simple situation, it is the least one can say, and the covid only made them feel a little more. However, it should be ensured that they do not end up in a non-return situation at any given time. These are all important issues, but this concerns directly the pension component of the contract staff of the provincial and local administrations, but also, more generally, the financial situation of the municipalities and therefore of all the citizens who are affected by the decisions and the situation of their communal administration. These are the messages I wanted to convey. I imagine that I will have no answer, no commitment or any element that would reassure us or give us a topo on a number of points that I have raised. Of which act. I think that's a bit of a shame. This is your choice and the choice of the minister and the government. Of course, we will be attentive to the operations and how these decisions will be made. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, we will support this text but with Sioux's vigilance in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did well to ask for last intervention. On the one hand, since many important things have already been said, I will not repeat them. On the other hand, I will be able to answer Mrs. Fonck. The Minister considered that, since this was an initiative of Parliament, the authors were in a position to explain the content of the text and to answer any questions. First of all, I would like to thank the co-sponsors of this bill. As you said, Mrs Fonck, it is a matter of finding a solution to the supplementary pension of certain workers. It is true that there is a certain urgency in this matter. I would also like to thank all the colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs who took part in a very constructive debate in which everyone was able to express their views. This debate resulted in a unanimous vote less one abstention. Mr. Van der Donckt recalled the reasons. In any case, there was no objection to the substance of the text. I will not go back to what has been said about the purpose of the bill, which is to provide a legal basis for the Federal Pension Service, which does not exist today. It is therefore a new mission that will be legally limited only to the organization of public procurement on behalf of provincial and local governments. As a result, there is no question of the SFP assuming a second-pillar management role for contract staff in local and provincial governments. It was also recalled that the Pension Management Committee of provincial and local governments, where local authorities were represented, would become competent for public procurement. In addition, it is important to note that the costs of this operation will be fully funded by the provincial and local governments that will decide to join future government procurement. In addition, the Minister recalled that after Ethias and Belfius announced that they had decided to terminate their services, there was obviously a need for conciliation procedures. Extensive consultations were therefore held with the Unions of Cities and Municipalities and with the federated entities before reaching a consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u96	That was one of your three points, Mrs. Fonck. The debate focused on the ethical and sustainable nature of the choices made for the future. You rightly recalled the commitments of the Vivaldi majority in this matter. I can tell you that several colleagues from the majority and the opposition have insisted on this point. I believe that in the Management Committee, representatives of cities and municipalities are also representatives of political parties. They will therefore be associated with future choices on this subject, but this remains a point of attention for us as well. In the points you have mentioned, Mrs Fonck, you tell us that the specifications will have to be well constructed to avoid problems. Of course, there is a timetable to allow time to work on the design of this specification, and you are right to say that we must be very careful about it, but neither should we make a trial of intent in advance, saying that it will be poorly drafted. As you pointed out, all attention will be paid to its content. We will be able to judge on documents and we still have our ability to ask questions and follow the file in the course of the year. The accountability assessment is not the subject of this bill, but I can assure you that the minister is well aware of the issue. She has proposals and she will discuss them within the government. Then this issue will come to Parliament. I share with all the municipalists here your concern, which is the weight of this accountability fee on the finances of cities and municipalities. I hope that a solution will be found in this area in the future. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking you again for the understanding shown by the various political groups. As I said, this is the income of these local government workers, local and provincial governments. I believe that this has been essential in the choice of groups to support this issue or, in any case, not to make it difficult in terms of timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u97	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u98	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2421/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2421/3) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u100	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by:
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u101	Steven De Vuyst, Nabil Boukili, Marco Van Hees, Raoul Hedebouw, Peter Mertens, Greet Daems. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2013/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (2013/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, today I want to defend this resolution which calls for sanctions against the State of Israel as long as it does not respect international law and human rights. To do this, I will start with a small history, so that you can understand why my group is proposing this resolution. Israel's settlement and occupation of Palestine have long been established. In more than 70 years, the country has been condemned by dozens and dozens of United Nations resolutions. For example, resolution 194, adopted at the end of December 1948, which recognized the right of return and compensation for Palestinian refugees. Israel had always rejected that right and even refused to discuss it during the peace negotiations, resolution 242, adopted unanimously by the United Nations Security Council on 22 November 1967, in the aftermath of the Six-Day War, which condemned the acquisition of territory by force and called on Israel to withdraw from the territories conquered in 1967 in exchange for peace with its neighbours. So far, Israel continues to build more and more settlements on these illegally occupied lands. The United Nations calls on Israel to meet these security needs within the limits of international law. The United Nations Security Council recalls the obligation of Israel, the occupying Power, to comply scrupulously with its legal obligations and responsibilities under the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. It expressed its grave concern at the continued deterioration of the situation on the ground in the territories occupied by Israel since 1967. He condemned the killing of Palestinian civilians in the Rafah area and expressed grave concern at the recent demolition of houses by Israel, the occupying Power, in the Rafah refugee camp. He also commented on the obligation not to undertake house demolitions. The International Court of Justice also ruled. It condemned all measures aimed at changing the demographic composition, character and status of the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, including the construction and expansion of settlements, the transfer of Israeli settlers, the confiscation of land, the demolition of homes and the displacement of Palestinian civilians in violation of international law and resolutions. Israel's apartheid regime also ignores the judgments of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. In 2003, the United Nations requested the Court to consider the issue of the infamous wall. The Court held in 2004 that the wall was disproportionate and constituted a violation of international law. Israel must stop its construction on Palestinian land, demolish an already constructed section and compensate the affected persons. The United Nations General Assembly, in turn, adopted the opinion condemning the wall in its resolution in its entirety. Israel rejected both the Court's opinion and the resulting resolution. The International Court of Justice had stressed the duty of other States to persuade Israel to comply with international law, but no one had acted and Israel had been able to continue to complete its separation wall without being hindered. It is time for Belgium to position itself clearly. The PTB introduced this resolution to demand sanctions against Israel and to show our support for the Palestinian people. These violations are not abstract or theoretical facts. These violations have destroyed the lives of Palestinians, men and women, children and adults, day after day, since 1948. Thus, to speak only of one aspect of this regime of occupation and repression, there are currently 4,600 Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli prisons, including 200 children and 543 prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment. Israel's military courts are the only ones in the world to judge and condemn children. According to the NGO Defense for Children International, 72 per cent of these children face physical violence after arrest, while 200 sick prisoners require medical intervention, as they suffer from chronic illness without adequate medical treatment. Seven hundred prisoners died because of this neglect. A total of 226 Palestinians were killed in Israeli prisons. One third of them died as a result of torture. These prisoners include dozens of members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, five of whom are still in detention. There are also journalists, writers, social media activists and human rights defenders. To justify its action, Israel had recently undertaken a campaign, without any evidence, to link six Palestinian civilian organizations, some of which were among the largest and most famous, to terrorism. This campaign was condemned by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International as an attack on human rights defenders around the world. The United Nations also condemned her. Last week, we invited and heard some of these NGOs to give us their testimony in the Committee on External Relations. Thus, in 2021, 86 Palestinian children were killed in the occupied territories - making it the most deadly year for Palestinian children since 2014. Seventeen of them were shot dead by the IDF, two were shot dead by settlers and sixty by Israeli bombings in Gaza that year. Settler violence against Palestinians continues to worsen. In a week in December 2021, more than 120 settlers attacked Palestinian people and villages. In addition to physical violence and imprisonment, Israel continued to demolish Palestinian homes and expel Palestinians from East Jerusalem and elsewhere to replace them most of the time with Israeli settlers. Thus, in 2021 alone, Israel destroyed some 300 Palestinian homes and other buildings, including medical centres during the pandemic – the highest figure in five months. Last week, the house of an eighteen-person family in East Jerusalem was demolished again. Around Bethlehem, 350 Palestinians are threatened with deportation at the moment. Meanwhile, Israel continues to add settlements and expand others into the territories supposedly reserved for a Palestinian State. I could continue to talk about war crimes, violations of international and humanitarian law and the colonial apartheid regime for days. In fact, we all know what is going on there, thanks to the reports of many NGOs, to United Nations agencies and to the numerous testimonies. In this Parliament, there have been 41 hearings and exchanges of views on developments in the Israeli-Palestinian situation since the 2000s. We have heard from ambassadors, NGOs, diplomats, representatives of the United Nations, Belgian, Palestinian and Israeli ministers and even a delegation from the Knesset. We have asked hundreds of written and oral questions to the ministers concerned in the Senate and the House. We have introduced some 40 resolutions on this subject, including some 10 that call for recognition of the State of Palestine. No concrete measures or sanctions have ever been taken. When we wanted this text to be voted on in committee, despite several exchanges and hearings, it was difficult to ask for further hearings and it was necessary to find a subterfuge in the form of a trip in order to see what was happening on the spot. But what a proposal! Organize a trip to see how it goes in Palestine! Unless you live on another planet, things are clear, resolutions are there. It took you a lot less than that to condemn other countries, for the simple reason that they are political or strategic opponents. So when we talk about human rights or international law, we must stop hypocrisy! In this Parliament, international law and human rights are instrumentalized for political, economic and strategic interests. And that is not the engine of what this Parliament is voting for, because other countries have been punished for much less than that, for the simple reason that they are strategic opponents. Colleagues, you can continue in your hypocrisy or have a burst of humanity to put an end to this massacre and war crimes for which Israel is responsible today. You rejected this text in committee. Today, you are given a second chance to give consideration to this text and to treat it properly. I would remind you of the double standards: it did not take much to condemn other countries. Here, you can't miss it. If you refuse to vote on this text today, you will confirm the hypocrisy that has prevailed in this Parliament for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u103	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u104	I'm hearing that a motion has been tabled. Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u105	Madam President, Question Time is always interesting. That was no different this time. It might have been even more interesting than usual. There is rarely consensus within the majority. She was there today. She was there to challenge a decision taken by a minister of the current government. That is a very separate majority within the majority. We have heard that Minister De Sutter was informed about the sale of bpost shops about the same time as the public. We have heard several speakers from the majority here say that the decision goes directly against our own coalition agreement. It is, of course, surprising that Mrs De Sutter, as representative of the head owner of bpost, is not informed by the board of directors except by way of speaking in the newspaper, which she will soon be able to buy in a gambling house. That is why a new fact has been created here with the answer of Minister De Sutter. It does not seem to have an impact on its own board of directors, on which it has just been noted that several members of that board have been directed by majority parties. It was also remarkable that it indicated that it was going to talk about the decision. However, members of the majority, including Mr Van Hecke, have asked that all legal possibilities be exhausted to reverse the decision. Of course, that's more than just talking to it. This is something that the majority groups in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats expect from the Minister and between the lines. In the light of these new facts, we would like to interview the Minister on the matter. I ask that on behalf of Mr Freilich. I would also like to ask the urgency of this question of interplay. After this afternoon's answers, Mrs De Sutter has something to explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u106	For that, you need the support of one fifth of the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u107	Madam President, I will first answer the question you have just asked. We support this motion and this request for the inquiry of the N-VA, as Mr De Roover has just said. However, I also wish to join this inquiry, and I am going to table it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u108	If I understand correctly, you also file an inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u109	Madam President, I support the question of interplay and I will also present an interplay myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u110	Madam President, we support the question of interplay between the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u111	Colleagues, the inquiry is supported by more than a fifth of the members. When the inquiry is tabled in plenary and the urgency is requested and supported by at least one fifth of the members, I must consult all members to see if the inquiry will be developed in plenary or committee. I suggest you go back to the group leaders to see if we are developing this inquiry now in plenary, as I imagine Mr. From Roover, or if we develop it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u112	Madam President, for the sake of urgency, we need one fifth of our members. That means that the President, you, will decide whether the interview is to be held in plenum or in committee, albeit within the week. The decision is in your hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u113	Madam President, the Minister says she is ready to come to Parliament today. Mr De Roover, it is obviously a bit of an easy way to prolong the debate. She has already been here today and has answered the questions. I really wonder what new elements you now think you have to bring her back to Parliament. We are beginning to find ourselves in a situation of abuse of interplay law. We see it week after week. I know that if the opposition can collect 30 votes, it can force that. However, it is a street without end. The Minister came here to answer at 2:15 p.m. During the afternoon, a group that did not ask a question during Question Time would then ask to be able to jump into the debate again. In the end, we will have a re-release of the debate. Anyway, as I said, there's no problem. The Minister is ready to come to Parliament again today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u114	Madam President, I would like to join my colleague Wouter De Vriendt. I find it particularly important that we had seven topical questions on one subject and that at the same meeting we have requests for inquiry. I have no problem if the minister wants to come and answer, but the commission in charge of public companies can perfectly welcome you next Tuesday to hear these inquiries. It seems to me that after this afternoon's topical debate, it would be the place where the debate can take place. I am closed to nothing, but I propose to do so in committee on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u115	Madam President, I fully agree with my colleagues that the ministers' answers often do not bring news that is true, and that there is usually no reason to say that after the Minister's reply there is something that still needs to be asked, because usually there is no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u116	Mr De Roover, the Minister will be able to give a better answer in committee next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u117	Mr Delizée, the Minister has given a very significant answer here. That's why, because we don't do that to everyone and every week. That is absolutely not true, Mr De Vriendt. We are doing this now, because the Minister has given us an answer which was indeed substantive and a new fact, which gives rise to a new situation. In these circumstances, however, it is not as a general rule that we should do what we are doing now. Rest assured that we will never let a minister come back if he does not answer, otherwise we could call them all back every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u118	The services will contact the minister. We will then notify the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u119	The Chamber must appoint three Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Central Prison Supervision Board. These are the actual members of MM. Bart De Temmerman, Marc Allegaert and Pieter Houbey. The Chamber should appoint three Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. It concerns the mandates of effective members of Mr Bart De Temmerman, Mr Marc Allegaert and Mr Pieter Houbey. Nominations were announced at the plenary meetings of 23 September and 10 November 2021. The applications were announced at the plenary sessions of 23 September and 10 November 2021. The candidates were interviewed in the Justice Committee on 19 January 2022. The candidates were heard by the Justice Commission on 19 January 2022. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on the hearings at the Conference of Presidents on 26 January 2022. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported to the Conference of Presidents on 26 January 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that you appoint the members at the plenary meeting on 10 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that Members be appointed to the plenary session of 10 February 2022. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 2449/001 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 2449/001 are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 10 February 2022. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 10 February 2022. I would also point out that the members of the Central Prison Supervision Board are appointed by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. I would also point out that the members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service are appointed by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u120	The Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Boards of Directors of Unia/Myria. The Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Board of Directors of Unia/Myria. Nominations were announced in plenary on 13 January 2022. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 13 January 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that you appoint the Dutch-speaking female alternate member during the plenary session of 10 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that the appointment of the Dutch-speaking female alternate member be made at the plenary session of 10 February 2022. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 2446/001 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 2446/001 are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 10 February 2022. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 10 February 2022. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u121	The Chamber must appoint the members of the Federal Ethics Commission. The Chamber should appoint the members of the Federal Deontological Commission. Nominations were announced at the plenary meetings of 22 April, 10 June, 23 September, 10 November 2021 and 13 January 2022. Candidates were announced at plenary meetings on 22 April, 10 June, 23 September, 10 November 2021 and 13 January 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that you appoint the members at the plenary meeting on 10 February 2022. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that Members be appointed to the plenary session of 10 February 2022. In accordance with article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the twelve members of the Commission are appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, with two-thirds of the members to be present. They shall be appointed for a period of five years, renewable once. In accordance with Article 7 of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the 12 members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two thirds of the members being present. They are appointed for a period of five years, which can be renewed once. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 2448/001 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 28 January 2022 until Thursday 10 February 2022 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 2448/001 are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 10 February 2022. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 10 February 2022. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u122	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - the motion for a resolution (Mr François De Smet and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi) on legitimate measures to protect whistleblowers who disclose, in the name of the general interest, confidential information from public organisations and companies, No 1730/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 26 January 2022, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on External Relations: - the motion for a resolution (Mr François De Smet and Mrs Sophie Rohonyi) on legitimate measures to protect whistleblowers who disclose confidential information from public organisations and companies in the public interest, No. 1730/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on Justice. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I also propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the National Defence Committee: - the motion for a resolution (Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Barbara Creemers, Séverine de Laveleye, Stefaan Van Hecke, Guillaume Defossé, Albert Vicar, Simon Moutquin, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre) aimed at sanctuarising space, the Moon and other celestial bodies as a common heritage of humanity and condemning their unilateral appropriation for commercial or military purposes, No. 1638/1. I also propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on Defence: - the motion for a resolution (Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt, Barbara Creemers, Séverine de Laveleye, Stefaan Van Hecke, Guillaume Defossé, Albert Vicaire, Simon Moutquin, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre) on the protection of space, the moon and other celestial bodies as a common inheritance of humanity and condemning their unilateral appropriation for commercial or military purposes, No. 1638/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been referred to the Committee on External Relations. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on External Relations. No observation? [[(Non]] [[)]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I see that the minister has joined us and that the aim is therefore to move on to the inquiries. I no longer need to consult the members, it seems that we agree to deal with them immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u123	Madam Secretary, thank you for coming back. Mr De Vriendt referred to the abuse of procedures. That is certainly not the intention, and we are not going to have the same debate twice. We are not going to have the substantive debate again, it is about the answer you have given and about what colleagues from your own majority parties have said. You said that, like us, you only heard yesterday that bpost made that sale or that the contract was signed. I find that particularly dangerous, because the board of directors of Bpost seems to me to have no confidence in you anymore. If he still had faith in his custody minister, he'd let us know what's about to happen in time. Bpost is a public company, we have a majority of the shares there. I cannot imagine any company where the majority shareholder knows nothing and is not informed until the most important decisions have been taken. Bpost's board is also at our request, and we have Commissioners there who have to defend our interests. Otherwise, why are we majority shareholders? If they're not defending our interests, why do we still have shares? I see you shaking your head in denial. Shouldn't they be defending our interests? Then what do you buy with that 51% of the shares? What good is that gonna do us? You can certainly hit the table. You can appoint people there and as a majority shareholder you can block cases. You can make sure that there are people on that board who follow government policy. The members of the Board of Directors of Bpost shall know the coalition agreement. They know very well that the approval of this sale goes directly against the direction the government intends to take. As a result, I have the very uncomfortable feeling that bpost no longer trusts this government or the competent minister responsible for controlling the company. I also found the reaction of the majority parties, your partners, quite shocking. I quote a few. Joris Vandenbroucke said: "This newspaper sale is an alibi to bring gambling products closer to customers. The Governing Board has made a very big mistake." So I'm not alone. Madam Secretary, you replied that you will send an invitation for an interview. I think that's too easy. Mr Goedele Liekens said: 'You normalize gambling, a blow to the face of everyone who is working on it'. Jef Van den Bergh of CD&V said: "If a public company sells part of its heritage to one player in the gambling sector, how the hell can we justify it?" Madam Minister, I wonder if the majority parties still believe you as a minister. Worse still, I quote a colleague of yours, a member of your party, Mr Van Hecke: 'This sale is a sheer disgrace and a huge blunder'. Those are not my words, I would never dare speak so loudly, certainly not to a colleague who is also a minister. "The decision is incomprehensible, dangerous and contrary to the government's coalition agreement," Mr Van Hecke said. Do colleagues still have confidence in this government or in your policy as a competent minister? An actual topical debate took place this afternoon. This means that a few questions are being asked and the speakers will also be speaking on television in Villa Politica, but that has been dealt with. Let's move on to the agenda, forget it! C'est fini! That is, of course, far too easy. We are putting forward very important elements here. It is not intended to just discuss this during a question of two minutes and a reply of one minute. This interplay has just been motivated by the way in which the majority here has shown their teeth today, not to the opposition but to their own government. I've never seen that before. I haven't been here that long, but I was wondering what I'm still doing here in the opposition. After all, the majority opposes its own minister. The heavy words were there, namely shame and blunder in size. What are we doing here? Do you still have the confidence of your colleagues from the majority? Do you also have the confidence of the board of directors? For these reasons, I will table a motion for a recommendation. The motion for a recommendation asks this government to do everything possible, exhausting all legal and other possibilities, to reverse this sale. That is what the N-VA is asking for, but the majority is asking for the same thing. It is therefore only natural for the majority to support and approve this motion of recommendation. The Prime Minister's Kumbaya moment can now develop into a Kumbaya moment for the whole of Parliament. After all, I have not heard any group say anything else today. We are all saying that this cannot be done, that a public company should not transfer its crown jewels, 170 newspaper shops that you find all over this country, to a company that aims to make as much profit as possible by gambling as many people want to gamble. It can't be. That is what this House is hearing. That's why I'm filing a motion. This government must do everything in its power, exhaust all legal possibilities, as well as all other possibilities, whatever they may be, engage in discussions with the Management Board, threaten the resignation of the members of the Management Board or convene a special general meeting. There are plenty of ways to show our teeth. We're the majority shareholders. We can decide, we're boss in our own house. If we are no longer allowed to decide what happens in our own house, then we are very far from home. That is why I am looking at colleagues. I expect your support, because I'm actually asking no more than what you're asking. I also asked that the wording of my motion of recommendation should take on board the exact words of Mr Van Hecke, in particular that we should exhaust all possible legal and other means. Are you going to vote against your own words? That would be kind of absurd. I'm asking for your support. Madam Secretary, do you think the board of directors of bpost still really trusts you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u124	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. My name's been mentioned twice. I was anxiously waiting for what Mr Freilich would say here, because he might have new, objectionable elements, things that had surfaced between this afternoon and now, a quarter past six. In the end, Mr Freilich repeated the debate and, despite his hard work, did not even manage to make full use of his speaking time. Without new elements, it was indeed so difficult to say the same thing as all colleagues did this afternoon. Madam President, what we are seeing here is abuse of the procedure. The N-VA didn't think the subject was important enough this afternoon to ask a current question about it and now tried to solve it with an interplay. Apparently, it has received the support of the opposition, and that is a recurring phenomenon. Allow me to regret that. It's a bit of an anticlimax, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u125	Madam President, I am sure that I will not use the full time allocated to me, but no conclusion can be drawn from this. Minister, I imagine you will agree with me that this matter has not been the subject of a five-minute decision by the bpost board. This afternoon, you explained to us that you learned yesterday about the sale of the Relay and Press Shop bpost bookstores at Golden Palace. This file had to be prepared for at least weeks. This is not possible otherwise when a company is well managed. So you said that you learned yesterday, but that bpost was a stand-alone company and that she should not ask you if she could do this sale. As my colleague has just pointed out, some members of your government have spoken of procedural abuse, slapping, shame, big mistake, alibi selling, etc. Basically, minister, two questions arise, both for you and for your majority government. First, you are the appropriate minister. Even if, according to the texts, bpost was not to question you on this subject, I cannot imagine for a second that, when there is a relationship of holy trust between a supervising minister and a public company, the chairman of the board of directors of the latter did not tell him about this sale. I cannot imagine for a second that such a decision can be made in the back of the appropriate minister with whom we have a healthy relationship of trust. I can't imagine the government was not notified. There's obviously a lack of dialogue between you and bpost. There is also, I believe, a lack of confidence and a clear lack of cooperation. We had the same situation with, remember, the closure of the SNCB counters. At the time, Minister Gilkinet stated that this would never happen, and everyone in the majority said the same thing. Check out the train stations, the window closures are effective! He, too, said he had not been warned. Already at that time there was a clear question of trust, dialogue and the indispensable cooperation between an enterprise and the minister responsible. Minister, the second part of my inquiry is on the merits. Yes or no, is this sale closed? You said earlier that you were going to call bpost. All right, but to tell her what, Madam Minister? To try to influence the decision? To try to deal with the situation differently? To try to restore a trust that is obviously not there? To try to establish a minimum of dialogue which is obviously so absent? What is your goal? The majority told you earlier that it was a shame, a slap. In other words, she said that it was wrong and that we had to change things. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I turn to you. What you came to say with your mouth in mind, is that true? Do you really want majority and opposition together, for those who want to, in any case, try to influence this decision or did you just come here to make fascidism by using the big words, to pretend, to send a message to the media when, anyway, the deal was made? It's also a real question. To tell you everything, I'm a little tired of this double speech between the facade and what we know or what we don't know, what we make believe or when we pretend. I think it's a real decoy. Madam Minister, you yourself are at the heart of this issue with major questions about trust, but I would also like to see, in a story where I dare hope that everyone will not be deceived (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u126	Mrs Fonck, contrary to your announcement, you have exhausted your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u127	Like, the minister inspired me!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u128	Madam Minister, the decision of bpost to sell 170 newspaper shops, which are located on the sea dike, in hospitals and stations, to the gambling sector is a real disgrace. All Members of Parliament, including the majority, supported this afternoon. In fact, we saw a huge gap between the tone of the parliamentarians who cried murder and fire and your tone, Mrs De Sutter. You replied that you would ask the CEO of bpost for coffee. We cannot accept that. By the way, I saw a ball of hypocrisy this afternoon. On the one hand, a company whose main shareholder is Belgium sells its stores to the gambling sector, and on the other hand, everyone here is crying because there are too many gambling addicts. The top point is that the Minister of Justice here announces that he will close newspaper shops that turn out to be gambling shops. How is that possible? That's like the pyromaniac who lights the fire, but says he'll send the firefighters. That's not right, is it? I'm saying as a doctor, it's better to avoid it than to heal it. But what are we doing here? . People always say that prevention is better than cure. Then what are we doing here? It's unbelievable. Madam Secretary, you say you only learned about the matter yesterday. But isn't that right? We have read in the newspaper how experts, gamblers themselves, everyone who works with them, and civil society unanimously consider it a scandalous decision, especially in view of the influence on young people, who can be encouraged to gamble. So I can't agree that you'll just ask the CEO for coffee. Then what exactly will you ask? You weren't clear about that. From press releases I learn that there is an agreement in principle to close the deal within the month. If I interpret that correctly, then the deal is not yet complete and there is another possibility to undo it or not to do it. Can you clarify that? Can you detail what you'll ask the CEO of bpost? Will you really ask him not to make such a deal? Madam Secretary, we expect more from the government than the song "I stood by and watched it." We expect you to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u129	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u130	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that I was not clear enough in my replies to the debate this afternoon. I have heard a number of new questions, but above all I have heard the same questions to which I have already given the answer to your party colleague, Mrs Vindevoghel. I'm definitely willing to do that again. You will also have noticed I was back here very soon before the interplay. I have a great deal of respect for the dialogue with Parliament. So I have not been clear enough in my answers this afternoon. That's what I hear. I'm now getting additional questions between when it was discussed whether we could still stop the deal and now, three hours later. I am asked: what is the matter now, what I have done and whether I can or not? You have to give me a little time, Mrs Merckx, to do that homework. I am replying to all three of you, because you have repeated the same arguments, with a few details. You do not believe me, but I will repeat: I was not aware of the deal. I took note of it yesterday and contacted you immediately to ask for explanations. You say I'll ask them for coffee, Mrs Merckx. That sounds friendly and beautiful, but I can assure you that the conversation may be a little less friendly. I want to explain, I want to know all the details and all the ins and outs of the deal. I have already explained the dilemma this afternoon: the law on public enterprises, of course, states what powers the government has and where it can intervene. There is such a thing as autonomous state enterprises, such as Proximus and bpost. This means, I repeat, what I said this afternoon, that I cannot intervene in operational decisions in the management of bpost, which is also quoted on the stock exchange. You will understand that this is also an element in this. There is a board of directors and a management that carries out decisions. In this regard, I shall say it again, because you apparently did not hear that correctly this afternoon... the board of directors gave a mandate to the management in November last year to conclude this transaction. In other words, the board was not aware of the decision. Like me, the board of directors took note of this because of a leak in the press, because that is how the news came out in the open. You can regret that and say that this cannot be done. Then let us change the law on state enterprises. I'm sure you'll be a partner in that. Mr Délizée has put forward a proposal for this. I understand from Mr Freilich's speech that the N-VA will also support this. If it is not convenient, it is said that I am competent and that I know nothing about it and that I must intervene, but if I interfere too much with the company, it is said that bpost is an autonomous public undertaking and that it would be better to liberalise it completely. The decision was made, before my time, that bpost, like Proximus, is an autonomous public body. Then that must be respected. That means we have an interest through the management agreement in what we ask of such a company. We see a public interest in that. Mr Freilich, you will agree with me that I take the added value of a public undertaking as a post for society very seriously. We've had enough debate on that. You must not doubt my views on this matter. But I also respect the autonomy with regard to the management of acquisitions, investments and business that is being rejected. I should not be asked for permission to do so. Several of you say that the board should tell me and that there will be a breach of confidence if it does not. Then what should the board of directors come and tell me if he himself is not aware of this transaction? This transaction is considered to be too small by amount, approximately EUR 50 million, according to the regulations to be approved by the Governing Board. I didn't make those regulations. If you want me to change it, we'll change the legal basis for it. I would be more than happy to enter into the debate on this matter. Will the government intervene more in the pursuit of our public enterprises? This is going to be a very interesting debate. It is, of course, also partly an ideological debate. Is there a lack of trust? No, I would like to draw your attention to my very good relationship with the CEO, Mr Tirez, and the chairman of the Management Board, Mrs Hanard. We are constantly discussing the future strategy and how bpost should carry out its task in the light of a social service, the management contract and the charter. The big challenge today is the declining letter mail and increasing parcel mail in a very competitive environment. We also work around a social equal level playing field for the parcel delivery guys. I hope you will support the government to combat social exploitation and fraud in that sector. Whether we like it or not, a decision like that around the newspaper stores can take bpost autonomously. They want to get rid of the newspaper stores because they no longer fit into their commercial business case and their core business. I am not going to tell the CEO that he should have informed me, but that I expect that in future in politically sensitive decisions with an ethical dimension. I guarantee you this won't be a breach of trust. You also remember the troubles with bpost in 2021. So it's not a lack of confidence. I have a good relationship with bpost management. I'll see you on a regular basis. Of course, yesterday I took my phone and asked for explanations. I have heard in this afternoon's parliamentary debate the suggestions from both the opposition and the majority, and I share them. You say: "It is a lack of confidence of your own majority. Can you still function..." I share the criticism. I am just as surprised, shocked, and may have expressed myself differently in various interventions or interviews. I, too, find that decision very problematic. Many members of both opposition and majority have also expressed their views in this respect. I listened very carefully. I've listened very carefully. I'll do whatever it takes and find out how that deal came about. Where it is; if in fact it is already closed, or not. I don't know right now. I will ask for all the legal analysis necessary to discuss it and to be able to judge it. It was indeed the members of this House who proposed it to me, the majority as an opposition. And I'll take this seriously. I take Parliament seriously and I share the indignation. I don't think I can be clearer. However, I am limited in my actions. That is why Mr Delizée has proposed that my powers should perhaps be extended. We need to review the law on public enterprises. I am fully prepared to open this debate. I am sure this will be an extremely interesting debate. Of course, I also expect you to be consistent in the way you react here. I think I've answered most of the cases with that. Mr Freilich, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Merckx, I have already exhausted the substance of the discussions this afternoon. I won't repeat myself. I understand that these interviews deal with the relationship with the bpost summit and the question of whether there is still confidence. Again, I answer that I am limited by my powers. They are less extensive than you might think, but I must stick to the legal basis. I'm not going to exhaust myself by repeating myself all the time. I know I still have ten minutes, but I don't intend to use them. I could do that, if you insist, because I love the debate and respect the parliamentary debate. I believe that I have shown this on several occasions. I repeat the promise I made this afternoon, and I will find out what is possible. I'll invite the top, although I don't know if I'll serve coffee with that. Maybe it won't be coffee, but another drink. But I'm going to invite the top bpost manager. It might be a flat water. I'm going to invite him to discuss it, because I find this problematic. But I repeat: Maybe not everyone believes it, but I wasn't aware of that deal before yesterday. If that deal hadn't been leaked in the press, none of us would have been aware of it. If we regret that, then we must think together how to change the mechanisms. If we want things to be different from now on, we need a legislative change. (Loud applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u132	I'll give you a round of applause, so you still have some support. That is good in itself, but there are still a lot of questions. You say you may not have been clear enough this afternoon. You were certainly clear and have just repeated that you were not aware. That is the new element for us. Mr De Vriendt is selling some show here, complaining that no new elements have come to light. Of course you do! What we have learned now is that you were not aware of the decision yesterday, but you were aware of it today and that you were aware of it at the same time as we were. That is certainly a problem. You say that there is no breach of trust with the Management Board and that the Management Board was not aware of the decision either. I find that very special. First of all, you have a government commissioner. You deny that? Then we need to see why it is not there and debate whether it should not be there. In any case, the members of the board are always in contact with the CEO of Bpost. Eventually, the CEO of bpost was appointed by the Board of Directors. There is no doubt that there is a trickle-down effect. If the CEO of Bpost knows that his plans go directly against the majority shareholder, who will have a problem with them, he will not go further. The fact that he does is a problem for me. So we expect you to take very strict measures. You always say that you cannot interfere as legislators. That's right, but you can do it as a majority shareholder. That is the crux of the debate. As a legislator, you are indeed limited in what you can do, but you are also a majority shareholder. Every shareholder is and will remain the boss in his own home. The fact that the shareholders do not know what is happening and that the director simply decides things, without apparently even informing his board of directors and without the majority shareholder knowing about the decision, thereby causing damage to the majority shareholder, i.e. the government, is very badly relied on the new CEO. The question remains who's boss. You say that you will speak with those concerned so that such facts do not repeat themselves. But is that for the long term or will you ensure that the matter is not continued today? Like your fellow party members, you feel that the sale is a disgrace. So you agree with our motion of recommendation, which is not a motion of censure, even if I was talking about mistrust. In it, Parliament, which is autonomous from the government, calls on you to do everything in its power to stop the sale. Since you are willing to try to do so, I expect Parliament to support the motion and Mr De Vriendt to withdraw his simple motion. If not, he goes straight against your statement, since you believe that the decision must be reversed. Maybe it's a semantic discussion. We must have the courage to deal with them. We all want the same thing. That's right. I'm looking around. We all want the same thing, namely that the government is trying to reverse the decision. If we all want the same thing, how can we not all vote on the motion for a recommendation in the same way? That is already very special, and that is also a bad signal to the population. Parliament as a whole agrees, but not really. Of course, that cannot be the intention either. In conclusion, you must get your house in order. Ms Hanard, Chairman of the Board of Directors, a young 35-year-old talent is of PS signature. 42% of young people gamble. Does that have anything to do with it? Probably not. In any case, you need to have a serious word with the board of directors. You say that he should not be informed about a sale of less than EUR 50 million. But one can expect him to know about that. Isn't everyone talking to each other in every company? And what will you do with the CEO, who knows he can do you and the government willfully harm you? Who's the boss in your own house? We have to show that the government and therefore the people, as shareholders, are in charge and decide what happens and does not happen to our money. You have the key to correcting the situation and we all hope that you will succeed in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u133	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Bpost is an autonomous public enterprise and, indeed, the law as it is today is the law. But let me tell you that in such cases as these, there are no bpost penguins, neither on the CEO's side, nor on the board president's side, nor on the wider side of all those who have been involved in this matter. This is not three days old and I say it again. When I'm told everything's airtight, I don't believe it. I've worked elsewhere than in politics. The hermetic nature of this type of file doesn't exist, I'm sorry. This is the question of trust between bpost and the appropriate minister that you are. That bpost did not make a statement or send official mail to the minister you are, of course! The law is the law. It may have to be changed, but the law as it is today is that. But I can't imagine that there wasn't a minimum of confidential exchanges between bpost and his supervising minister, if there was intelligent trust and cooperation. Madam Minister, I will not come out of this statement which seems implacable to me. A lot could also be said when you explained to us that the board of directors had given the management a mandate. Certainly, but in a well-functioning company, there is intelligent cooperation between management and the board of directors, at least with the president of the board of directors. It feels like it's neither seen nor known. No one knew about it in the big shop! Again, I find it implacable. This obviously raises a number of questions, except that after that, it would make it easier for everyone to say that they were not aware of it. In this regard, Minister, I really invite you, since you have called on the CEO, to also call on the Chair of the Board of Directors. This seems to me useful in this case for what has happened but also for what will have to happen, in the long term and in the short term on this issue. That is the second point on which I would like to answer. I asked you if the file was closed. You told me you didn't know. I'll sum it up, but that's the message you wanted to convey. It's not a file that closes in a day. We know that. Who is the majority shareholder? It's the state. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, since the beginning of this afternoon, I hear that a large movement, a very large majority, which goes far beyond the majority of governments, clearly wants to review the decision that has been taken. I hope you heard him, Madam Minister. It is now your responsibility to influence the lines in this file. On the other hand, we cannot imagine that within the parties of the majority, all this was not discussed or prepared before the speeches on topical issues. Not all those members of the parties of the majority would have come here, with their mouths in mind, shouting at the scandal if this had not been a minimum prepared internally. After hearing, dear parties of the majority, your strong statements at the beginning of the afternoon and except to believe that these are incantations, I dare hope that acts will follow. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, since you have the levers as the majority shareholder to move the lines on this issue, we expect, after your incantations at the beginning of the afternoon, acts that will obviously have to converge, unless all this was just show. Minister, you are going to meet the CEO, I imagine as a matter of urgency (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u134	Madam Secretary, what a disappointing answer. If I understand correctly, you will not drink coffee. You will drink something else, which I do not know. You're going to study everything. However, I do not feel any motivation. If that deal isn't closed yet, I want to hear a minister say here that she will do everything she can to prevent that transaction. I haven't heard that from you. No, you've actually already accepted it. You have said that you want to see whether we can ensure in future that this does not become an ethical sale. That's what you said. So you've actually already accepted it. Madam Secretary, what a disappointment. This is actually a feuilleton in which the same episode is played with other players. Belfius closes his offices and Mr Dermagne says he can't do anything about it. SNCB decides to close the counters, and Mr Gilkinet says he can't do anything about it. Bpost sells his newspaper shops to the gambling centers and Mrs De Sutter says she can't do anything about it. The problem here is really fundamental. What is happening here over and over again is the result of the liberal vision of autonomous public enterprises. You are also organizing the dismantling of public services. We now see the consequences of this. The board of directors has agreed to the sale in itself, but the sale itself is already problematic. We do not agree with that at all. You are fully involved in the liberal vision. You've already sold the bank yourself to BNP Paribas. There is nothing we can do here, but the board is full of politicians. I do not have that list of politicians here, because it is Mrs Vindevoghel who succeeds it in committee. Otherwise, I would have read all those names once. On the board of directors are all politicians who agree to the decisions. When it gets a little too bad, people come here to leave a little crocodile tears. I'm finishing up, Madam Secretary. Even with the current law on autonomous public enterprises, you can demand the resignation of the CEO if he or a committee makes such a scandalous decision. After all, everyone agrees that it is a scandalous decision for public health. How is it possible that a CEO of an autonomous public undertaking with a public mission decides to turn newspaper shops into gambling centres? I think you have power there as a minister and you can act. That's what I expect from you and people expect from you. I shall, of course, table a motion to ask that the decision be undone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u135	[MNF01/] [NL]At the end of this discussion, subsequent motions were tabled. [FR]In conclusion of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. [NL]A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Michael Freilich and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the Government Agreement, which states that special attention will be paid to the protection of minors in the field of gambling; - whereas protection for players of gambling and betting is significantly less in daily trading; - considering Minister Van Quickenborne's policy paper, which states: "In addition to actions to improve the protection of players, we are taking several regulatory initiatives to address the most urgent regulatory gaps.'; - whereas daily newspapers are also in the vicinity of schools, even in hospitals where addicted players may be treated; asks the government exhaust all legal and other possibilities to undo the sale of bpost newspaper stores to Golden Palace." [FR]A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michael Freilich and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Michael Freilich and Catherine Fonck and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, - having regard to the government agreement, in which it is specified that special attention shall be paid to the protection of minors with regard to games of chance; - Whereas the protection of players participating in games of chance and betting is significantly lower in newspaper sales shops; - Considering Minister Van Quickenborne's general policy note, in which he states: "In addition to actions to improve player protection, we will take several initiatives at the regulatory level to fill the most urgent gaps."; - Whereas newspaper sales are also located in the vicinity of schools, or even in hospitals, where compulsive players may be treated; asks the government to exhaust all legal and other possibilities in order to cancel the sale of bpost newspaper stores at Golden Palace." [NL]A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mr Michael Freilich and Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Sofie Merckx and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, Whereas bpost wishes to sell its entire own network to newspapershops to Golden Palace, a gambling company; asks the government, that is the main shareholder of bpost, in order to intervene and stop the sale of newspaper stores to Golden Palace, there is neither urgency nor need to sell them." [FR]A second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Michael Freilich and Catherine Fonck and Sofie Merckx and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, Whereas bpost wishes to sell its entire network of booksellers to Golden Palace, a betting company; asks the government, which is the majority shareholder of bpost, to intervene and prevent the sale of newspaper stores at Golden Palace. There is no urgency or necessity to sell these shops." [NL]A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Maggie De Block, Melissa Depraetere and Nathalie Gilson and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Servais Verherstraeten and Jean-Marc Delizée. [FR]A simple motion was tabled by Ms Maggie De Block, Ms Melissa Depraetere and Ms Nathalie Gilson and Mr. Wouter De Vriendt, Servais Verherstraeten et Jean-Marc Delizée. [NL]The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. [FR]The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u136	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Art. 75, n° 5, Rgt) If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. (art. 75, nr. 5, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u137	Mr Joy Donné, Mr Bert Wollants, Mr Sander Loones, Mr Theo Francken, Mr Björn Anseuw and Mrs Kathleen Depoorter, Mr Anneleen Van Bossuyt and Mr Yngvild Ingels amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to introduce a tax reduction due to the high energy costs for households, No. 2450/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u138	Madam President, last week we were told by the Prime Minister that the serious problem of high energy costs is also a serious problem for many middle-class people who are not eligible for the broad social tariff. Last Friday, we heard that there is a solution for this from the government. We didn't see it. Even today, the Prime Minister has been asked a great deal about this, but even now, I did not have the impression that there is a solution in the pipeline. Moreover, some of the solutions that can be heard here and there are risks of being a cardigan-pocket operation. I am asking for urgency not only because of the content - that debate will still take place - but above all because we can no longer delay providing a solution for that broad middle class. With urgent consideration of this bill, the population can at least have a solution, or a partial solution, to the difficult problem that people are currently facing at home. The President: I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u139	There is also an urgent need for the proposed law of Sophie Thémont, Florence Reuter, Cécile Cornet, Nathalie Muylle, Tania De Jonge, Anja Vanrobaeys and Evita Willaert on various measures in the field of labour law for the benefit of the care and education sectors in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus VOCID-19, No. 2455/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u140	Madam President, the bill tabled by our colleague Sophie Thémont concerns measures in the area of labour law for the health care and education sectors in the context of the health crisis. In the current context, we believe that this text should be given urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u141	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u142	There is also an urgent need for Mrs Sophie Thémont's proposal for a law on various temporary emergency measures in the field of labour law to combat the shortage of labour as a result of contamination with the omicron variant, No. 2456/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u143	Madam President, we are calling for urgent action on this bill, also presented by our colleague, Sophie Thémont, and by other colleagues, on various temporary measures in the field of labour law for health care and education workers in the context of the health crisis. It's another file in the same context.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u144	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u145	The urgency is also requested for Mr Servais Verherstraeten's legislative proposal to ratify the Royal Decree of 27 January 2022 declaring the epidemic emergency in relation to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic, No. 2459/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u146	Madam President, I would like to ask the urgency of the bill No 2459 ratifying the Royal Decree declaring the epidemic emergency concerning the coronavirus. The pandemic law requires ratification within 15 days. That is why we are calling for the urgent debate so that the plenary can give its opinion on this within the time frame envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u147	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, I indicated it during the current questions, countries such as Spain, Ireland and England are abolishing all the corona measures and Denmark is even abolishing the corona rules completely. The Danes therefore welcome again the life of before corona. Mr Verherstraeten, what are Belgium and the current government doing? You want to prolong the emergency, although there is no objective reason for that. It must be very useful for the present government to rule without Parliament's control and therefore with powers of attorney. We of the Flemish Interest will oppose this as democrats. We therefore expressly do not support this urgency. The coronapas provides a false sense of safety and has eventually created more infections. We remain silent about the polarising and discriminatory effect of the corona measures. The coronabarometer is far too late at the end of the pandemic to be useful for public health. So it is no longer about the virus and our health, but about control. It is an instrument to keep the population under the skin for a long time. The Flemish Interest opposes a society with A and B citizens and against unscientific, useless, dictatorial and freedom-limiting corona measures. Madam President, to make a long story short, we will not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u148	We have stopped the pandemic law and we have stopped its use. It goes without saying that we are doing that again now. The justification of the RAG states that, compared to the October 2021 analysis, there is an adverse evolution of the epidemiological situation, putting health care at great risk. That seems to be the situation as described and on the basis of which the government issued a KB this afternoon. Words seem to be losing their meaning. Of course we are against it. We were last time and we are now with even more conviction. The President: I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u149	These questions have been developed in plenary today. These interviews were held in today's plenary session. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 241/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michael Freilich; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Ms Melissa Depraetere and Ms Nathalie Gilson and Mr MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Servais Verherstraeten et Jean-Marc Delizée. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 241/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michael Freilich; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Sofie Merckx; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Maggie De Block, Mrs Melissa Depraetere and Mr Nathalie Gilson and Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u150	Yes 78 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u152	Yes 81 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u154	Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u156	Yes [[85]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u158	Yes 99 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u160	Yes [[114]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? (Non) Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 103 Yes Non 30 No. Abstensions 2 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for resolution No. 2013/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. Therefore, 2013/1 was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u162	--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vote/Vote 1 (MOV 2 (2348/1) - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. Vote/Steming 3 (2404/3) - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. Vote/Vote 4 (291/4) Mrs Tanja De Jonge has voted like her group. - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. - Mr. Gilles Vanden Burre voted as his group. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. Vote/Steming 5 (2383/3) - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. Vote/Steming 6 (2421/3) - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. Vote/Steming 7 (2013/1) - Mr. Albert Vicar voted like his group. - Mr. Raoul Hedebouw voted like his group. Mrs Marianne Verhaert, like her group, voted. - Mr. Malik Ben Achour voted as his group. - Mr Daniel Senesael voted as his group. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-27-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip159x.u163	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 3, 2022, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 February 2022 at 2.15 p.m.
