ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. The chairman will come later. He has, if I am not mistaken, a hearing on another committee. He has asked me to take his place because the two Vice-Presidents have been excused and I have asked quite a few questions at the beginning of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u2	Mrs. Sneppe, you have an interplay. So you have ten minutes to speak, but I suppose that time is quite sufficient. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u3	Mr President, that must certainly work. Mr Minister, the human papilloma virus, HPV popularly, is a group of highly related viruses that cause abnormal cell growth in skin and mucous membranes. This can cause different types of cancers. The most famous is cervical cancer, which for a long time meant that the virus only affected women, or should I say 'persons with a uterus'. Nevertheless, an opinion from the Supreme Health Council showed that a quarter of HPV-related cancers also occur in men. Since the 2019-2020 school year, girls and boys can therefore be protected through the free school vaccination programme. Those who do not qualify can buy the vaccine from the pharmacist themselves, albeit without refund. Today, the RIZIV only provides for a refund of the HPV vaccine under certain conditions for girls and not for boys. For example, a boy who buys the vaccine Gardasil 9 in the pharmacy pays nearly 135 euros for it. The cost can go further up to more than 400 euros, as multiple doses are needed for full protection. A girl in the same situation pays 8 or 12 euros. In response to this unequal reimbursement, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men received a complaint from a boy. Together they appealed against the RIZIV's refusal to intervene in the costs. According to them, unequal treatment is a violation of the gender law and anti-discrimination law, in which the Brussels Labour Court agrees with them. On 30 March 2022, the Brussels Labour Court ruled that boys are discriminated against in the reimbursement of the vaccine against the HPV. Mr Minister, how prophetic were my words in the Committee on Health in response to my question on HPV vaccination? I quote myself from the report: "Why shouldn't you do that for boys? This can count in the context of discrimination." What I warned you about then is now being confirmed by the court. There is discrimination based on sex or, to put it bluntly, discrimination based on gender. Mr Minister, in your answer to my question on the subject, you spoke of three steps. The first step is to ensure maximum vaccination of young girls. You want to touch at least 90 % with them. This is already happening in Flanders. What percentage has already been achieved? The second step is the vaccination of the cohort young boys, namely from the first year of secondary education in Flanders and the second year of secondary education in Wallonia and Brussels. Since 2019 this has mainly been done through the CLBs. The third step is possibly the catching-up vaccination of boys who were just too old in 2019 and are less than 19 years old. A procedure for one of the vaccines is currently under way in the Commission. It calls for the extension of reimbursement for boys from 12 to 18 years of age. How's that going? Will that be accelerated by the judgment of the Brussels Court? What is being done to extend the refund to boys and girls up to 26 years? What is the state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u4	Minister, Mrs Sneppe has already said a lot, but I would also like to return to the court's ruling. The vaccination is very important in stopping the spread of human papillomavirus (HPV) and especially in stopping the development of genital warts and cancers. However, a number of people are excluded from vaccination, for example boys who have not been able to receive free vaccination through the Communities, but also homosexual men, who are actually even less protected than heterosexual men, because their partners are not protected by vaccination. To what extent will you take into account the court's ruling? What action will you take? Will you refund the vaccine for people who have fallen out of the boat during vaccination for the general population organised by the Communities, if necessary and through purchase in the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u5	Mrs. Muylle is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I will not take up the points just made by my colleagues. However, the news puts a spotlight on the major importance of HPV vaccine to prevent uterine cancer, but not just. Indeed, an opinion of the Higher Council of Health, which does not date from today, clearly recommends that vaccination against papillomavirus infections be extended to prevent not only cervical cancer, but also all other cancers for which it is involved, as well as anogenital warts in view of their morbidity. So it's a scientific evidence. Today, if it is integrated into the timetable, there is still no dynamic in terms of reimbursement. However, as you know as well as I do, if this is not the case, there will obviously be no enlargement for our young people and for our young adults – I insist on this point – when such an enlargement is vital as well as the widest possible coverage. Minister, has the Interdepartmental Conference taken up the matter? What about reimbursement? What about the actual strategy of a catch-up vaccination? I am thinking in particular of girls, since the challenge is to extend the refund, including up to 26 years of age. Reimbursement should also be extended to immunocompromised persons (transplantees and adult HIV patients), not to mention young boys and men. Today, we can no longer sneeze and discuss this issue; we must put a real accelerator on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u7	This is a topical debate. Members who still want to intervene can do so now or during the replies. Nobody asks to speak, so I now give the floor to the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u8	First of all, I would like to refer to an answer that I gave in January and where I gave the history and state of play at the time with regard to the reimbursement of the HPV vaccination. The procedure at the CTG for catching up vaccination in boys is still ongoing. So I haven't received their advice yet. Such procedures take time because they assume a comprehensive critical and up-to-date evaluation of, inter alia, the therapeutic value, social and medical needs, cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact. The aim of the CTG is always to provide advice for efficient and optimal use within an acceptable and available financial framework. I think I explained that last time. I expected to be able to make a decision before the summer, but from a final question I learned that the time limit for the procedure was postponed by suspensions at the request of the firm concerned. I expect the CTG's advice by the beginning of August at the latest. The day I have to make a decision at the latest is at the beginning of September, according to the normal CTG procedure of 180 days. That is disappointing in terms of timetable and I understand that there are many people waiting for this decision. As soon as I receive the advice of CTG, I will not waste any time and make a decision quickly. The ruling of the Labour Court will undoubtedly be an element in this decision at the CTG, as will the recommendations of the Supreme Health Council. I'm assuming the CTG will take all of this into her advice. The catching-up vaccination will be especially important for the boys who were just too old to receive the vaccine in 2019 via the free vaccination campaign. Fortunately, this is a not too large group with a deafening character. I repeat that the first step is the maximum vaccination of young girls and boys in the first and second years of the secondary unwise, and that a high vaccination rate in this group is the main objective. With regard to other reimbursement extensions up to 26 years of age, as well as immunocompromised patients, companies responsible for marketing HPV vaccines can still submit a new application for reimbursement or modification of the reimbursement to the Commission de répondement des Medicinal Products (CRM) if they have new solid scientific data in the specific populations. The CRM will then evaluate these new data and propose a possible extension of the refund. Taking this opinion into account, I may decide to extend the reimbursement to a wider population. On the other hand, if these firms do not introduce files, I can consider initiating a procedure for assessing reimbursement and extending it myself. Finally, all new information on vaccination is shared at the level of the working group on the coordination of prevention policy within the Interministerial Conference on Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say the CTG investigation is still ongoing and delays due to a suspension of the firm. Can you tell me a little bit more about why the firm called in a suspension? For the rest, of course you have to wait for the advice of the CTG, I understand that. If studies show that it also benefits boys, why shouldn't boys be given the chance to be vaccinated, obviously under the same conditions as the girls? You yourself say that this is a small and extinct group, the boys up to 19 years old. My question is to extend it to 26-year-olds, also for girls, of course, otherwise there will be another form of discrimination. I understand you're waiting for advice from the CTG. If you can clarify the reasons why the company applied for suspension, we can better understand why there is a delay. I am convinced that the extension of the refundable vaccination against HPV will certainly bring health benefits. This is also apparent from studies on this subject. Of course, we can't know in advance, we'll only see that in the future. You say that vaccination against HPV has grown historically, which is true. We started with a lower age, meanwhile we have 19-year-old girls and hopefully soon 19-year-old boys. Something that grows historically and has a certain evolution needs to be evaluated once in a while. It seems to me that the time has come to evaluate this procedure now, particularly in view of the progressive understanding, including in the field of science. I hope, together with you, that the CTG will soon have a piece of advice and that this will evolve in the right direction. To strengthen my interplay, I'm filing a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u10	Everything takes its time, of course, but it is a little faint that you want to wait until the firm applies. You can revise those repayment methods. This is not about tens of thousands of patients. These are people who fell off the boat. It's about different cancers. Certain numbers of HPV virus are proven cancerogen at any place. The value you can obtain from the refund of those vaccines is mostly positive. I therefore encourage you not to wait, but to act and to ensure that all patients can benefit from this reimbursement. It's a fairly substantial amount of money for the patients. In the case of sickness insurance, it is mainly amounts that can be saved. So it's a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to highlight a few points, although they have already been mentioned. It is rare to find ourselves in such a situation: there is scientific evidence – this virus causes cancer in women and men – and a court ruling that it is a situation of discrimination. So now we have all the elements to move forward. You say you hope to make a decision for the month of September. This remains a relatively reasonable time frame. You say you have to pay attention to the cost. But as Mrs Depoorter has just said, the cost of prevention will always be lower than the cost of treatment. We know how much cancer treatment costs in our society. It seems to me that "there is no photo", and that it is an investment, and not a cost, that we must do collectively. Finally, the target audience is women, but this cancer also affects men. I would like us to move forward collectively in thinking about the fact that women's health is not just women's business. Of course, immunizing men has a direct benefit for men, but also for women. Let us all be supportive of each other's health, and let us collectively invest in this protection of both women and men. It's good for everyone, and it's good for state finances. It's scientifically proven. I hope that in September you will come with good news, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u12	Minister, you answer us by talking about the CRM procedure, saying that it will take longer than expected, etc. This is the kind of talk that is always heard on many files. All of this to tell us that if a decision is taken in September, it will concern only boys and young men, and that, with regard to the authorization of reimbursement for the vaccination of young girls up to 26 years of age and for certain populations for which it is necessary, the firm has only to move. From when did the evidence based date? It is already a number of years old. In addition, the Higher Council of Health issued an opinion in July 2017. Since then, five years have passed. It is a matter of making a choice of public health strategy and therefore of public health policy. It's not about sending the ball back to others, it's about taking on your own responsibilities. So I can only strongly suggest that, as part of the decision to be taken in September for boys, the reimbursement be extended to girls up to the age of 26 and to certain targeted populations for whom it is absolutely necessary. All these measures are scientifically validated. When the vaccination is extended to 26 years of age in girls, there is no question of a double vaccine. It is simply a vaccine that they did not receive earlier and that they receive a little later. So there is not one more euro to be given. It's just a budget that's out of date. In terms of public health, we all have an interest in having a strong and clear strategy. In particular, this must be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u13	Mr Minister, is it possible to get an answer to my question concerning suspension, or can you not say anything about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u14	Mrs. Sneppe, no, I can't say. I don't know, but even if I could find out, I wouldn't do that easily, because we don't normally make confession during an ongoing procedure. So I can't tell you. I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u15	Are there any members who would like to intervene in the replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u16	I hope, as the Minister said, that progress will be made quickly with colleagues. I would like to make a simple motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u17	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, - whereas, in its ruling of 30 March 2022, the Brussels Labour Court held that the reimbursement of the HPV vaccine is discriminatory for boys; - having regard to the opinion of the High Health Council, - having regard to the opinion of Kom op tegen Kanker; asks the government adapt the refund conditions for the HPV vaccine to the anti-discrimination law and extend it to a maximum age of 26 years for boys and girls." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Dominiek Sneppe and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, - Whereas the Brussels Labour Court held in its judgment of 30 March 2022 that the reimbursement of the HPV vaccine is discriminatory for boys; - taking into account the opinion of the Higher Council of Health; - compte tenu de löjnavis de löjnasBL Come on against Cancer; asks the government adapt the conditions for reimbursement of the HPV vaccine to the anti-discrimination law and extend it to a maximum age of 26 years for boys and girls." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u18	Minister, the European Regulation 2019/6 on veterinary medicinal products came into force on 28 January 2022. It deals with new distribution channels and packaging modalities for veterinary medicinal products. One of its articles states that veterinary medicinal products placed on the market pursuant to Directive 2001/82/EC or Regulation 726/2004 may continue to be made available until 29 January 2027, even if they do not comply with the new Regulation. Most authorisation holders of veterinary medicinal products in Europe interpreted this article as an authorisation to distribute previously registered products until 2027 in existing packaging. At the end of 2021, a legal opinion was given by Europe to the relevant article. It states that it is not the registered products in themselves but the lottery tickets that have been placed on the market at the moment. This actually means that pharmaceutical companies will no longer be allowed to place new lots of veterinary medicinal products on the market from 28 January 2022. In total, more than 40,000 product packages need to be re-registered, which obviously means extra and time-consuming work. Do you know why Europe has opted not to include registered products in the transitional regime, but to include the tickets that have been placed on the market at the moment? What are your views on the interpretation that Europe has given to this? Has any thought been given to the concrete consequences for the provision of veterinary medicinal products on the Belgian market? Are there any indications that the scheme will lead to exhaustion of stocks in our country? Will you raise the matter at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u19	On 21 December 2021, the European Commission gave a legal opinion on Article 152 (2) of Regulation 2019/6 on veterinary medicinal products, which did not correspond to the interpretation given to that Article 152 (2) by Member States, the EEA and the pharmaceutical industry until then. This interpretation of the European Commission would lead to many practical problems in the entry into force of the Regulation on 28 January 2022 and would certainly have led to availability problems for veterinary medicinal products. For this reason, the European Commission was asked from several Member States to revise the interpretation of Article 152 (2) or to provide a solution to the practical problems involved. The European Commission therefore presented a proposal for a Regulation on 2 March 2022. The purpose of this proposal is to allow marketing authorisation holders to continue marketing veterinary medicinal products until 29 January 2027, even if the packaging of those products does not comply with the packaging requirements set out in Regulation 2019/6, but in so far as they did comply with the European rules currently in force before the entry into force of this Regulation. In order to avoid problems of interpretation pending adoption and publication, the European Commission has published a communication on this subject on its website. Since the committee's initiative and its communication are in line with the interpretation given by the various Member States, the EEA and industry to date to that Article 152 (2), Belgium also supports the solution proposed by the European Commission. I expect that this will also avoid any problems with the implementation of this article.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It reassures me that this will be followed up. That's important. We in Belgium must ensure that there are no deficits. Thank you for following up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u21	In Flanders, many children's wards suffer from a shortage of paediatric nurses; these are nurses with the special professional title 'pediatric and neonatology'. This is in fact a consequence of Flanders' abolition of the banaba follow-up training in nursing in 2016. Today there is only a postgraduate in Flanders that gives access to this professional title. This reform requires nurses to invest a number of thousands of euros for this further training, while compensation for the special professional title has disappeared when the IFIC was introduced. The training thus became less attractive. Only two colleges of higher education still offer the postgraduate degree, which makes it difficult for hospitals to comply with the pediatric care programme, which stipulates that 75% of nurses must have a professional title 'pediatrics'. Because of the absence of a professional title, there is no longer any obligation in the field of continuing training. In addition to the supply, therefore, the quality of care also deteriorates as knowledge, know-how and expertise decline. Are there any hospitals in Flanders that no longer meet the conditions of the paediatric care programme because they no longer meet the 75% standard? You paid EUR 43 million to provide a lump sum for specialist nurses. Will that amount also be available for nurses with a special professional title 'pediatric and neonatology'? Will that amount be there for the nurses who work at home? To what extent does the shortage of paediatric nurses hypothesize the 'Home Care Children' pilot project that you want to set up? Will you consult with Flemish Minister Weyts to see how education can make the further education of pediatrics more attractive to nurses?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u22	Mr de Caluwe, I will, to begin with, kick in an open door. I have to. Nursing has been a bottleneck profession for many years, causing a shortage of the labour market in all aspects of the profession. Especially for nurses in care for the elderly, demand remains high, but also for paediatric nurses there are vacant places, whether seasonal or not. For your question whether there are hospitals in Flanders that no longer meet the conditions of the paediatric care programme, I must refer you to the inspection reports for the recognition standards for which the Länder are responsible. I cannot therefore give a specific answer to that question. You also asked questions about the complement I want to give to specialized nurses. A draft royal decree is in preparation. It is now being submitted to administrative and budgetary control. The aim is to valorise the paying specialized nurses who have made or will still be able to make the switch to IFIC by means of a so-called specialization supplement, which would be awarded to categories of nurses with recognition for a special professional title or for a special professional qualification working in a hospital. The nurses with a special professional title 'pediatric and neonatology' are also eligible for this. It is also intended to provide for the valorisation of specialist paid nurses in the home care sector. In their case, wage-earners are entitled to special care in the field of diabetes, as was the case in the past in the system which provided for a premium for a special professional title or a special professional qualification. The system for self-employed home nurses has remained the same as before. You know that, of course, they are not covered by the IFIC. They're not employees. You ask if this is a mortgage for the pilot project 'Home Care Children'. That pilot project is now in the development phase, involving consultation with the field of work and the KCE to draw up the chalk lines of the possible projects. Once the call from the pilot project is launched, it will only be possible to see which topics come up from the hospitals and to see how the projects will be implemented. That's important to me personally for a pilot project. Your last question was about the meeting with Minister Weyts. Let me first mention a positive element. The KCE report 325A of 2019 showed that between 2009 and 2016 the qualification mix of nurses in acute hospitals improved. At the pediatric service, the percentage of bachelors nurses rose from 86 % to 92 %. Furthermore, for the academic year 2021-2022 there is a large influx of nursing students. In addition, there is continuous coordination between the federal and sub-state authorities with regard to the training and documents that nurses must follow and can carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right to point out that a number of responsibilities lie with the communities. I am pleased to hear that the federal government has taken the necessary steps to address these deficits, through the specialisation complement. You also indicated that the pilot project is important to you. Of course, I am very happy about that too. After all, I think that is indeed very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u24	Minister, the corona crisis and the war in Ukraine teach us that we depend heavily, perhaps too strongly, on abroad for a number of basic needs. For health care, at the beginning of the crisis, we were faced with supply problems of mouth masks, reagents and certain medicines, and for medicines and active ingredients, we are heavily dependent on China and India. This concern was included in the coalition agreement when the government was formed. The government agreement therefore states: "We are looking at how we can bring the development and production of strategic medicines and active ingredients back to Belgium and Europe to reduce our dependence on third countries." What steps have already been taken at Belgian and European level to bring the production of active ingredients and medicines back to Europe? Does this aim form part of the multiannual plan to be concluded with the pharmaceutical sector? Has any concrete progress been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u25	Mr De Caluwe, an analysis of strategic dependencies was carried out both at Belgian and European level. At European level, this will be followed up by the Directorate-General SANTE, which has, inter alia, carried out a study on drug shortages and has a structured dialogue with stakeholders on the security of drug supply. This structured dialogue already provided a set of policy recommendations on the European pharmaceutical strategy and the European industrial policy strategy. Further proposals of policy options for a more flexible and resilient pharmaceutical supply chain in the European Union are still expected. You asked whether this ambition is part of the multiannual plan that we will conclude with the pharmaceutical sector. The answer is yes. Proactive measures to ensure the availability of essential or critical medicinal products will be part of this plan. One of the components is the monitoring of critical drug stocks by all actors in the distribution chain in order to deal with possible shortages in a timely manner. It will also focus on ensuring the economic viability of keeping essential older medicines on the market. Have any concrete results been achieved? At European level, I refer to the establishment of the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority (HERA) within the European Commission. HERA was established to build up the necessary response capacities. In addition, Belgium participates in Important Projects of Common European Interest (IPCEI). This aims to address the market failure and support the renewal and greening of technologies and production processes for active pharmaceutical ingredients, medicines and pharmaceutical products.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u26	A great deal of attention has also been paid to the monitoring of strategic stocks, including those of medicines, in the corona committee. A number of recommendations were made on this subject at the time. I'm glad something's going to be done with that, too. There will soon be an exchange of views with you on these recommendations. It is important that you have done so. And I am convinced that we must continue to do so on a European scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u27	Minister, the European Society for Medical Oncology has developed the ESMO score, which stands for the Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale, with the aim of facilitating decision-making on the evaluation of cancer therapies and access to the medicines concerned. The ESMO score gives an appreciation of the extent of the clinical added value of a cancer medicine. It takes into account effectiveness, long-term survival and side effects. An A or B score or a 4- or 5-score means that the cancer medicine represents an important added value in cancer treatment. The CTG advises you to repay a medicine based on an evaluation of the therapeutic value of the medicine. In other words, it examines the extent to which a medicine has a healing effect. Minister, I would like to hear from you how much the CTG takes into account the ESMO score in its assessment of the therapeutic value of a cancer medicine. Does it make sense for the CTG to carry out an evaluation of the therapeutic value of a cancer medicine if an ESMO score is available? Has it already happened that the CTG came to the conclusion that a cancer medicine had no or insufficient therapeutic added value while ESMO score A or B was either 4 or 5? If so, to what extent can the CTG take the evaluation of the therapeutic added value of a cancer medicine seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u28	Mr De Caluwe, the ESMO-MCBS, the European Society for Medical Oncology Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale, is part of the evaluations. It facilitates an objective evaluation of the extent of the clinical benefit of cancer medicines, but, like other instruments, the ESMO score also has its limitations. He assumes a valid research methodology and a good implementation. Studies that incorporate flawed design or lack of implementation and/or data analysis may lead to biased results and conclusions that exaggerate the real benefit. This undermines the intention of the ESMO score to give a representative score and can compromise its integrity and thus create a bias. Some important shortcomings of the ESMO score are the next.I will not be exhaustive in my list. The ESMO score does not require a specific level of maturity of the data. The ESMO score does not evaluate the validity of the control arm nor does it have a mechanism to identify or penalty studies with a non-standard control arm. The ESMO score does not indicate studies in which the survival benefit may be exaggerated based on substandard treatment after tumour progression. The ESMO score does not indicate studies in which quality of life data have not been published or have not yet been published. These are a number of shortcomings. You asked if the CTG should carry out another therapeutic value evaluation if there is an ESMO score. I have just informed you that the ESMO score does not evaluate the validity of the control arm. The control arm used in clinical trials may therefore be inappropriate or incomplete or not in accordance with Belgian medical practice. In addition, the ESMO score focuses on the specific indications evaluated in the clinical trial and does not take into account the medicinal product in the patient's overall treatment pathway. This is reflected in the directives, including the ESMO directives. The Directives should also be interpreted according to the specific availability or reimbursement conditions of the medicinal product in Belgium. Finally, the ESMO score assesses the clinical benefit. It is not about the financial value of the medicinal product, its budgetary impact on social security and its cost-effectiveness compared to the appropriate comparator. This is typically or usually part of the assignments given to the CTG. You ask whether it has already happened that the CTG concluded that a cancer medicine had no or insufficient therapeutic added value, while the ESMO score was A or B or 4 or 5. Such a situation may arise for the reasons mentioned above. Therefore, no added value was recognised in a speciality with an claimed curative property due to extreme immature data leading to too important uncertainties, no cost-efficiency and/or excessive budgetary impact. Other cases may be due to the inability of the comparator to be taken into account in the ESMO score compared to Belgian practice. We can therefore conclude that the work of the CTG remains essential to ensure the correct interpretation of the ESMO score. To understand these problems or reservations, one really has to make a critical assessment of the clinical study. The ESMO score does not relieve us of the obligation to critically review studies on cancer medicines. The usefulness of the score lies in the hands of the user. The shortcomings were recognised by the ESMO-MCBS Working Group, which announced in a publication its intention to take this into account in the future, especially in new iterations of the ESMO-MCBS score.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u29	Thank you for the very clear and complete answer, Minister. It gives me enough insight into how this ESMO score works and relates to the assessment by the CTG.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the frequent use of medicines in old age has already been mentioned in this committee. A number of proposals have been made to facilitate a reduction in drug use. I would like to return to that question. The highest drug use occurs in patients over 75 years of age. Especially in the last phase of life, we see an exponential increase in the number of medications someone is taking. In the last year, the number of medicines prescribed often doubles. In the study of the Socialist Mutuality, to which the VRT referred, all medicines have not yet been taken into account, as certain painkillers are missing from the dataset. Minister, what are your plans to optimise the use of medication in the elderly? Do you have any plans for thoughtful prescribing? What recommendations or measures do you have in place? Are measures specifically foreseen for 75-plussers? Will you support consultation between doctors and pharmacists? After all, there were some pilot projects around medical review, in which the house pharmacists together with the general practitioners provided a scale of certain medications at a certain life stage. Are you in favour of that? Will you organise a new pilot project or will you formulate a structural proposal? Both the general practitioner and the house pharmacist have sufficient knowledge to evaluate which medicines can be scaled down at what time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u31	Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u32	I would certainly like to explain, but not too much either, because in the end it all comes down to the same thing and Mrs Depoorter has already said a lot about it. My question is also based on that study of Socialist Mutuality, which deals with excessive and inappropriate drug use among 75-plussers, especially during their last years of life. It's not just about reciprocating medication. We can ask ourselves a lot of questions about all those medications that are not being reimbursed and which are not included in the study either. There are some curious findings in the study, which I will not come back to unless the latter: almost one in two 75-plussers has received at least one kind of medication during the last three months before their death which can be considered inappropriate. In this context, reference is made, inter alia, to blood pressure reductions in all patients, cancer medication in palliative patients and finally to cholesterol lowering agents. Some recommendations are also made: focusing on meaningful and evidence-based prescribing behaviour, on multidisciplinary medical-pharmaceutical consultation, on the GGG conversation with pharmacists, on data sharing, on a timely conversation with the patient and his relatives and, finally, on advanced care planning and palliative care, with attention to drug use. I know the government is committed to this. Combating over-consumption of medicines is part of the plan to structurally improve the financing of our health care. Have you taken note of the study? What recommendations I have just listed do you include in your policy? Can you state what action is being taken to combat over-consumption of medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u33	Minister, in March last year I asked you a question about polydrugs in the elderly. Then you replied that your administration and the Public Health Office would take an initiative in that area. The figures in the Sciensano health survey showed that a quarter of the 65 to 74-year-olds and about 40% of the 75-plussers are taking more than five medicines per day. At the time, you were shocked by those figures. I also refer to the study of Socialist Mutuality, which shows, among other things, that these figures are rising further. However, you promised to tackle this problem, but it seems that your approach has not yet had much effect or you have not yet started it. This is not only problematic for the patient, who often swallows unnecessary medicines, but also causes higher costs for our health care. What has been done in the past year, so since my previous question, to deal with polydrugs in the elderly? What measures will be rolled out? What's the timeline of that? Is there consultation between your administration and the pharmacists and general practitioners on the one hand? Finally, did you also engage in dialogue with the Länder on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u34	Mr President, good use of medicines is a constant concern. Mrs Vanpeborgh, I do know that study and I welcome it. That also comes back as a policy line. I give two essential elements. Optimisation of the use of medicinal products is one of the health objectives set out in the long-term objectives set out in the health insurance budget for the period 2022-2024. The National Agreement on Medical and Medical Funds includes a commitment of prescribers with regard to the prudent use of medicinal products. We must, of course, also make this concrete. In order to give substance to this optimisation of the use of medicinal products, the Committee for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions decided on the following priority initiatives: meditation review; good use of medicinal products (GGG) / polymedicine and good use of medicinal products/therapy fidelity. These projects are still in a phase of elaboration. The intention is to get them up and running this year. There have been a number of accompanying calls by the pharmacist at the start of asthma medication and to promote compliance in the preliminaries of diabetes. Also in the medical-pharmaceutical consultation, which aims to promote multidisciplinary cooperation between doctors and pharmacists by financially supporting meetings and quality-promoting programmes, rational prescription and delivery of medicinal products and their safe use are central objectives. The discussions at RIZIV level between pharmacists and insurance institutions to give concrete form to these projects started last week. I understand that by the beginning of next year at the latest this will be the case. So the glass is half full or half empty. The implementation projects and the consultations on them are ongoing, but we will have to wait for the concrete conclusion. The same applies to another initiative which, I think, Mrs Depoorter has already spoken about in committee, in particular a withdrawal programme for benzodiazepine use based on majestic preparations. I do not think that is an obvious proposal, in all honesty, but I do think it is worth investigating. If such a program is to be set up, it must be properly aligned with the activities of BelPEP, the Belgian Psychotropics Expert Platform, in the lap of our FOD. The RIZIV is currently in consultation with BelPEP and the professional groups concerned. My associates follow that closely. The reason why it is not self-evident, Mrs Depoorter, is because in this way something is paid back by the majestic preparation which is not included in the refund today. However, that is no reason not to. I'm just saying that at the RIZIV people say that that's not easy. So we'll look into it and discuss it. In addition, we are evaluating the function of house pharmacist. I thought that was a very sensible reform of the previous legislature. The house pharmacist, as you know, follows the chronic patient, guides him with his medical treatment and draws up the medication schedule. He also makes the schedule available to other caregivers who have a therapeutic relationship with the patient. I think that's all important, but all right, we need to evaluate it. The Observatory for Chronic Diseases has already carried out an initial evaluation of the performance of the home pharmacist. In the coming months, an evaluation will be carried out by the Observatory for Chronic Diseases and the OCA. So I really hope that during the course of this year I will be able to get concrete results from the various projects so that we can answer the questions that are being asked here. I also think it is important and hope that at the end of the year we will have a good portfolio of initiatives and projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u35	Minister, the glass is not half full, but there are a few drops of good intentions in it. That's something. The medical review and the good use of medicines and medication and therapy loyalty are good slopes. Please, investigate them and execute them. I hope that they can be operational by the end of the year or by the beginning of next year. I really disagree with your ruling on the withdrawal of psychopharmaceuticals, especially in older people. You say that it would be strange to repay the phasing-out if they were not repaid themselves. However, you could achieve a huge health gain there. This also applies to the prevention of falls. It is evidence-based, it is one of the priorities of the General Pharmaceutical Association (APB) that have been put forward within the RIZIV conventions. I therefore call for it to be examined, because it is necessary for our older population and for the health gains that we can secure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u36	I'm not arguing with you. It's exactly what you're saying. Only I gave you the reason why it wasn't decided with a fingernip. But we're looking at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u37	In the pharmacies, that's just the way it is. There are, for example, methadone programmes, although of course they are of a very different order. But we know that they work and are financially feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u38	Mr Minister, we already knew from previous studies that there is an overconsumption of sleeping pills, antidepressants and antipsychotics in older people, including in residential care centres. Moreover, it has been shown that there is often inappropriate and unnecessary drug use. Often this concerns the extension of existing rules on medicinal products. Socialist Mutuality has seen better results in residential care centres. Perhaps this is due to the many initiatives of the past. The right initiatives can therefore effectively reduce the use of medicines, especially if the use of drugs by the elderly is subject to regular evaluation and adapted to the situation of the patient at a certain time in his life. Doctors should therefore focus more on the needs of the elderly and on their quality of life in this latter phase of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. After reading the study, I am convinced that excessive and inappropriate medication use is not a win-win situation but a loss-lose situation, both for the patients, to whom this does not add value, and for our health care. After all, it only costs more money. For me, the glass is half full. However, that will be my nature. I have noted that it is a good thing that the concretisation projects have been launched. It is still waiting for the results, but I really hope that they will be positive. That's what's needed. I'm also definitely a fan of evaluating the house pharmacists. They can indeed play a very important role. The longer I spend on health care, the more I am convinced that they can play a very important role in primary care. I would like to thank you for the answers and certainly look forward to the results of the implementation projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In Doctor's Newspaper I also read that about 30% of hospitalizations in the elderly are due to inappropriate use of medicines, often falling through because they are intoxicated and have little control over their limbs. 50% of these hospitalizations could even be avoided. Mrs. Vanpeborgh, for you, the glass was half full. Of course, that may be because of your nature. I'm convinced of that. However, it may also be your political colour that the glass is half-full and not half-empty. Mr President, I do hope that you will step up your efforts in this area. After all, our older people deserve to be well cared for in their old age and not to be the playball of the pharmaceutical sector or of any ideology or practice. The general practitioner is certainly the first to be able to do something about this, by regularly requesting and checking the list of medicinal products and questioning the medicines on the list. Of course, he or she knows his or her patients best too. For example, if the patient increases or decreases in weight over time, this is one of the factors that can cause drug withdrawal or build-up. It is also necessary to take account of the fact that, in the case of hospital discharge, medicinal products usually come in instead of disappearing. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area, particularly in the field of communication between the specialists in the hospital and the general practitioner, so that everything can be properly discussed and aligned. In my introduction, I indicated that it is not only much better for our elderly people to take fewer pills, after all, every pill or combination of pills has side effects, it is also better for our health insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u41	Mr Bacqulaine is not present, his questions are without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u42	Mr President, my first question dates back a long time ago and was about the covid pandemic and the Easter holiday. There is no need to reply to that. For my second question, I refer to written record of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u43	Minister, Paxlovid has been declared by the WHO as the best means of combating covid. They recommend this for unvaccinated elderly or patients with a weakened immune system. It should be administered within three to five days of the first symptoms after a test. That requires a good logistics and a performant system. There is not so much transparency about the price, but in De Standaard we read that we pay 600 euros per dose in Belgium. In the United States this would be 490 euros. There is also a discussion on how to spread Paxlovid around the world and not just to Belgium. My question is whether the inequality we saw with the vaccines will repeat itself with the pills. Doctors Without Borders reported that the first stocks are bought by 22 Western countries. A number of doses were made available through the patent pool, but this involves a small number of doses for few countries. The first generic forms would not enter the market until 2023. Doctors without Borders therefore ask, as we have been asking from the beginning, that a TRIPS waiver be applied, not only to vaccines but also to pills against covid. In Belgium, it is relatively cumbersome to administer Paxlovid for the time being: only to immunosuppressed persons who are ambulatory and prescribed only by a specialist. That gives rise to a lot of problems in the field for the proper use of the pills. Why are the WHO criteria not applied in Belgium? What about the test system in Belgium? Is that a performer? What about the price in Belgium? Is that 600 euros per dose correct? Why was that price agreed? Will Belgium make efforts to ensure that access to Paxlovid is not only available in Belgium, but that it becomes available worldwide?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u44	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will address three areas: the therapeutic component, the preventive component and a component on a study that concerns me. On the healing side, we have data from the World Health Organization. A major publication in the British Medical Journal on 22 April led to a revision of the recommendations. The main recommendation concerns Paxlovid, a medicine limited in Belgium to severe immunocompromised patients, in which he has been reimbursed since 15 April 2022. Yet, evidence-based, it is the best choice, today, for early treatment, but not only for severe immunocompromised patients but, in fact, for all people at high risk of serious illness, including elderly patients and patients with co-morbidities. It is therefore a major axis in terms of the approach to the pandemic today. Of course it's not the only one, but it's a major axis. My question is very clear on this: is it not crucial and logical to extend the indication to elderly patients with co-morbidities, and not only to severe immunocompromised patients? Still on the therapeutic side, there is the issue of rapid access to this treatment. To achieve a reduction of 89% in hospitalizations and mortality for people at risk who are affected by a covid, it is necessary to be able to administer it as quickly as possible, as soon as possible after the symptoms. In fact, the reduction in mortality was only shown in a study with a maximum delay of five days after the onset of symptoms. Today, in Belgium, the specialist must prescribe this medicine. However, the legal text does not provide for hospital clinics to be able to do so. How is this going? For a patient who is outside the hospital, the general practitioner cannot prescribe it. So he goes through the specialist doctor. Next, the patient should pick up the medicine from a conventional medicine clinic. The reality is that the information on procedures has not been correctly passed on to the traditional offices. The patient is therefore destitute. There is a second problem for affected patients who come to the hospital for many reasons. A patient presents himself, for example, because he has symptoms. He sees this as a specialist, who can prescribe the medicine. But the hospital pharmacy doesn't have any. They can then order the Paxlovid via Medista. However, this requires the prior approval of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS), while it is prescribed by the specialist physician. To obtain this agreement from the AFMPS, you must send a mail to the pharmacy, which must send an email to the AFMPS. When, finally, the pharmacy has obtained the agreement, it can order the medicine from Medista. What time lost, while the key is to test, and in case of positive result, treat. The existing procedure is not adapted to the terrain and reality of patients and caregivers. It is a major brake that slows down the whole process, while the key is to lift the administrative brakes and allow a rapid procedure to make patients at risk of the full effectiveness of the medicine via Paxlovid treatment. The second part of my intervention concerns the Evusheld, in preventive treatment. This prevention can be administered in severe immunocompromised patients. She's been protecting them for a while. Evusheld is still not available in Belgium. The date announced was May, but according to my latest audit, it is not yet available. When will Evusheld finally be available in Belgium for the prevention of covid-19 in severe immunocompromised patients? In France, it has been available since the end of December 2021. In the face of a health crisis exposing at-risk and immunocompromised patients, for whom the vaccine is less effective than for the rest of the population, the non-availability of this treatment means that they cannot be adequately protected. The third aspect I want to address today concerns Molnupiravir, for which I hope to obtain precise answers because there are a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u45	Mr President, I shall first give the latest figures on federal stock. As for the monoclonal antibodies, we counted 19.072 packs of Xevudy on 9 May. As for Veklury antivirals, we have 3,063 packages on 9 May. From Lagevrio or molnupiravir we have 10,941 packages on 9 May and from Paxloid we have 2,450 packages on 9 May. First, I'll go into the specific questions about the antivirals and then I'll come back to Evusheld. I'll touch them all. Remedesivir or Veklury appears to be effective in preventing hospitalization if administered early. However, this treatment involves the administration of a minimum of three intravenous infusions with one day interval between each of them, making administration difficult in a covid-19 outpatient. Its use in the treatment of patients with covid-19 should be limited to the exceptions described in the treatment guidelines. Lagevrio or molnupiravir has not yet received approval from EMA, but a procedure has been developed for early use in Belgium in outbreaks in nursing and nursing homes and for use in an ongoing clinical trial with general practitioners to gather additional evidence. I will come back to that at the end of my answer in more detail, particularly on this question of the clinical study. Then, several questions related to Paxlovid. What is the target population? Although Paxlovid appears to have promising results in a population at risk of developing a severe form of covid-19, our task force Therapeutics has taken into account the various uncertainties regarding its effectiveness when drafting its opinion, including the fact that this drug has been tested in a relatively young unvaccinated population and that there is currently no clinical data to confirm its effectiveness against the omicron variant. In addition, uncertainties regarding the safety and proper use of the medicinal product, particularly in an elderly and/or polypharmaceutical population, were also taken into account in the drafting of the opinion. In addition to nirmatrelvir, Paxlovid also contains ritonavir, a protease inhibitor that can cause serious interactions with other medicines, even at low doses. Uncertainties remain as to the effectiveness of Paxlovid as a cure and its safety within a real context. The results of the ongoing Panoramic clinical study in the United Kingdom should allow Task Force members to benefit from data on the efficacy, safety and use of Paxlovid as a curative treatment in a real context as well as in a widely vaccinated population. It is indeed important for the members of the Task Force to have concrete data for these different variables when defining the population eligible for treatment and the volumes ordered. In order to define the population eligible for the various treatments, the task force takes into account the current epidemiological situation. The task force VOCID Therapeutics (TF-COVID-Tx) recommends that the use of Paxlovid be reserved for severely immunocompromised people who are at high risk of hospitalization and serious forms of covid-19. To learn more about the scientific motivations and the position of the task force, please consult the relevant opinion on the KCE website. The current purchase of Paxlovid is expected to treat 10,000 patients who are considered to be severely immunocompromised. The WHO recently recommended the use of Paxlovid for all people at high risk of developing a serious form of covid-19 without a more precise definition of this group and without new scientific data being available. After discussion between the Task Force and WHO, it appears that this comprehensive recommendation has been developed by WHO to take into account the health environment of the world's regions, where vaccination coverage is low and quality hospital care is less accessible. This is the explanation for these differences. The task force VOCID Therapeutics (TF-COVID-Tx) initially limited the use of this treatment to severely immunocompromised patients in outpatient settings. At its meeting on 29 April, TF-COVID-Tx also approved the early use of nirmatrelvir-ritonavir also in severely immunocompromised patients who contracted covid during hospitalization, i.e. who contracted covid in the hospital while hospitalized for another reason. However, this use is impossible for patients with covid infection quickly identified after the onset of the first symptoms, within the first five days; and for whom the use of additional oxygen is not necessary. The recommendations of TF-COVID-Tx will be adapted as soon as possible to this new vision. Since the opinions issued by the Task Force are mainly based on expert opinions and on the clinical data known to the members at the time of issuing the opinions, they are likely to be reviewed. Therefore, the Task Force will discuss the revision and reduction of the population eligible for Paxlovid treatment as well as the number of treatments ordered once data on treatment effectiveness and safety in a real context are available. It should be noted that in case of a new opinion from the Task Force recommending the purchase of additional doses of treatment, it will be entirely possible for Belgium to receive the short-term treatments, the logistical feasibility of this option having been confirmed by Pfizer. Mrs Fonck, the task force is aware of the logistical challenge, given the very short timeframe within which Paxlvid treatment should be given to the patient. The Task Force has set up a system to enable rapid and efficient treatment and set up a standard method to allow an adequate prescribing and distribution system for Paxlvid. The task force will evaluate the current delivery system very closely. If it is not effective, adjustments will be made. The communication with the prescribers on the distribution of the newly available treatments was carried out through several channels. First of all, an electronic letter has been sent to the various associations of medical specialists that can prescribe Paxlovid, through which it has been announced that there will be a publication about the standard working method. Secondly, the Task Force organised a webinar on the various treatments available for severely immunocompromised patients to inform prescribers of available clinical data and procedures for the provision of the different treatments. The webinar also enabled the specialists concerned to communicate the list of patients eligible for treatment with Evusheld and an indicative date when it will be available, so that they can already draw up a list of patients for whom they recommend this preventive treatment. In addition, a FAQ will be published on the KCE website to answer questions from prescribers. Finally, the guidelines for general practitioners and specialists are regularly updated to ensure a smooth dissemination of information on new treatments. The task force is composed of specialists as well as general practitioners. The presence of specialists ensures that the opinion of clinical physicians is taken into account. If we decide to purchase additional treatments with Paxlovid, we can do so after an obvious analysis and advice from the task force. Then we will look again at the budgetary implications of this in the context of the corona commission. In addition, accessibility worldwide is particularly important. We are making every effort to provide vaccines in close cooperation with the European Commission, thus contributing to a sustainable and just global pandemic policy. For Evusheld, 10,000 doses of the Evusheld monoclonal antibody combination (tixagevimab/ ciliavimab) were ordered by the government. They will be used as a prophylactic agent in immunocompromised patients who do not adequately respond to the recommended vaccination regimen for these patients. This prophylactic treatment should be possible in Belgium at the end of May, in any case according to the information given to me today, Mrs Fonck. An adapted distribution system is being analysed by the Covid Therapeutics Taskforce. This analysis is carried out in close collaboration with the AFMPS, the SFP Santé publique and the various professional associations. They are working closely together to analyse the various possibilities for establishing a distribution system suitable for both the specificities of Evusheld and those of Belgium. Finally, with regard to the online study on Lagevrio (molnupiravir), Lagevrio was the first oral antiviral that could be ordered and delivered. The first intermediate results were indeed more promising than those of the second Phase 3 study, which is why use was limited to clinical studies or epidemic outbreaks in nursing homes. Distribution of Lagevrio in these clinical trials is already possible. A communication campaign to educate general practitioners and patients about these clinical trials has been put in place. The use of Lagevrio in clinical trials is essential to better document its effectiveness in vaccinated patients. There is no evidence that the non-approval of Lagevrio by EMA is due to safety concerns. The clinical study and content of the website were approved by the Ethics Committee. Patients considering participating in the trial are informed of the regulatory status of the drugs under study and of the need to further study their efficacy. Also note that participation in the clinical study does not preclude high-risk patients from being treated with Paxlovid if appropriate, or with any other treatment for covid-19. While the use of Paxlovid is limited due to drug interactions, the long-term effects of the use of Lagevrio, a mutagen, are not yet known. Both drugs therefore have limits and additional data are needed. To our knowledge, there are no direct comparisons between antivirals. A comparative trial, called PANORAMIC, which studies Lagevrio compared to Paxlovid, is currently under way in the United Kingdom. This trial is essential to determine efficacy in immunized patients infected with the omicron variant. I want to reassure you that the task force will continue to reassess the appropriate use of all antivirals and monoclonals. But when you're responsible, you have to rely on evidence, expert advice, not on first expressions of trust, good news, hope. We really need to work on the basis of what we know, that is, evidence, and take into account all aspects such as, for example, drug interactions for Paxlovid, the difference with a test carried out on a largely unvaccinated population, the difference with the position of WHO, which is also aimed at less developed regions, etc. All this must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u46	Minister, we have said before that too few medicines have been ordered. You say there are 2,450 packs of Paxlovid in stock. That's bitterly little if we needed them. A number of committee members have recently visited a hospital. The colleague said that the order is far too complicated and that there are too few medicines. You are hiding behind the advice of the Task Force, but that advice dates from December 2021. At the time, the vision of vaccinations was different than it is today. I think this opinion should be revised. When I read the advice, I thought from the beginning that it was very tight and focused on the vaccinations. You yourself say that the studies have happened with many unvaccinated patients, but we need to look further and ensure that, if there is a new outbreak, our patients can enjoy Paxlovid when we need it. You mentioned ritonavir. I repeat what I said earlier. You say Pfizer says that extra orders can be delivered quickly, but there is a worldwide shortage of ritonavir and that is one of the essential substances of Paxlvid. Unfortunately, therefore, I predict that, if the terms of your order are not yet fixed, you might really be short in the autumn. I hope I'm not right. I would like to quote a second element concerning distribution. You mention this in relation to Paxlovid, but that is also a problem with the pharmacists who are going to vaccinate in Brussels and Wallonia, where they are now starting. You keep getting Medista back for driving around the drugs or vaccines. There are very good performant wholesalers in pharmaceutical products that can also do so very quickly. Every day they have x number of deliveries to hospitals and pharmacies. Don't make it hard if it's easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u47	Minister, I do not think I have been given an answer on the price you paid for Paxlovid.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u48	You've asked me many times. So let me repeat: these are negotiations in which we do not publish the price.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u49	I still think it's important to hear that. It's always the same story, but it's important to re-confirm that it's being negotiated in the greatest darkness. Apparently, there are no lessons learned from vaccinesaga and how it went around the world. It is clear that Paxlovid is the new money cow for Pfizer. They estimate that this year's turnover will be 22 billion for Paxlovid alone. In the first quarter profits have already increased by 61 %, to 7.9 billion. This is because of the vaccine, but also because of this new pill that is being put on the market. The pill is expensive: 600 euros. We could say that this is due to high development costs, as is often pointed out, but no years of research have preceded it. The pill has developed very quickly. I think we can certainly ask questions about it. The result is that there are strict indications in Belgium. If it is true that one dose costs 600 euros, as stated in De Standaard, then I understand why there are so few doses in Belgium. So here are strict indications, plus the fact that it is hardly available in third world countries, where it would be even more useful. If you simply refer to the COVAX mechanism to deliver vaccines, you are laughing in the face at the people in those other countries who are waiting for vaccines and pills. The same applies to all those who are striving for the waiver of patents, as we asked at the time, both in terms of vaccines and in terms of promising pills.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u50	Minister, you're talking about the importance of working on evidence. The WHO makes Paxlovid as the main recommendation for fragile patients and, next to it, you brake on this medicine while you accelerate on Molnupiravir when it is not validated by EMA. It is now very clearly less effective than other available antivirals, such as Paxlovid and Remdesivir, to protect patients with co-morbidities who remain at risk of hospitalization or even death after infection with the BA.2 variant. Compared to this, you take the version that is not supported as important, and not validated by EMA. I confess that, for me, it is not working on evidence. Secondly, with regard to the Paxlovid, I find that there is a clearly insufficient order. Minister, I don't know if you've listened to me, but we need to move things around and have real operational levers that are well-rounded. We repeat again here the defects of the whole first part, and even of the second, of the crisis covid. We have to associate the ground. I've listened to several infectious agents in university hospitals. They all explain the same to me: the procedure is complex. There are no stocks at the hospital level. To order it, you have to make a way through the AFMPS when it is the specialist doctors and only them who can prescribe it. Listen to them! There are very simple ideas to make the device hyper effective as quickly as possible between the indication of treatment and the time the patient receives it. Why not mini-stocks of Paxlovid in each hospital, even after adjusting the stocks according to the evolution? But severe immunocompromised patients, and more broadly fragile patients with co-morbidities, must be able to dispose of them. Minister, I insist on that. There is a real need to review the position, taking into account both the operational aspects and the issues of indication. We need to broaden the indications so that our fragile patients are not forgotten about this crisis. Testing/treating for fragile patients is a major focus of our strategy. We see this in other countries and we do not apply it in Belgium, in any case not to the desired extent or with the necessary ambition. Finally, as far as your answers to this famous study on the Lagevrio are concerned, you have not answered me. It is not validated by EMA. Has there been a new opinion from the ethics committee? You're not answering me. I must admit that with regard to this study and this choice that you have made, a large number of questions persist. I do not see at all clear about this. Thank you. I have to stop there, considering the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u51	Minister, an estimated 680,000 people, the vast majority of women, suffer from osteoporosis in Belgium. With an ageing population, that number will only increase. The disease reduces bone density, making the bones weak and fragile. People with osteoporosis are at great risk of fracture. However, 80% of the people experiencing a breakage are undiagnosed and not treated. However, they may have osteoporosis. Anyone suffering from the disease runs a high and avoidable risk of another fracture. In Belgium alone, more than 100,000 fragility fractures are caused by osteoporosis every year. The disease also increases the risk of disability and mortality, as mentioned in your policy paper. Moreover, the disease costs a lot of money to health insurance because too little is being spent on early detection and prevention. However, a shift has been deployed by the government's commitment to reduce the health gap between those with the highest and lowest expected healthy life years by at least 25% by 2030 and to reduce the number of avoidable deaths by 15%. The RIZIV budget for 2022-2024 also complies with those health objectives for the first time. The growth standard is also significantly increased. Chronic diseases such as osteoporosis perfectly fit into the reasoning to use them to avoid deaths and extend healthy life years. What plans do you have to make better use of integrated care for chronic diseases, such as osteoporosis? In your policy paper, you also give osteoporosis as an example to reduce morbidity. What are your plans for integrated care for osteoporosis patients? What cooperation is there with the Länder on early detection and prevention of this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Vanpeborgh, you set and describe the challenge very well. You also place them in a broader context. My answer is mainly about that broader context. In that sense it is going to stay at a general level, but that is also quite conscious. Osteoporosis is an important problem, it is one of many that increase with age. It is a global cause of comorbidity. In addition to age, we know other risk factors, such as menopause and malabsorption. There is also a proven link with a sitting lifestyle, which I referred to in the policy paper. So one looks for healthy life, balanced diet and regular exercise. This not only helps prevent osteoporosis, but also other chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes and certain types of cancer. The importance of the Federal Food and Health Plan, a new version of which will be developed for the period 2021-2030, is to develop a national strategy to prevent non-transferable diseases, such as osteoporosis, in the first place, by encouraging healthy eating habits and sufficient physical activity. Indeed, the intention of such a plan is to ensure that initiatives and messages of our level, of the Länder and of private sector stakeholders are properly identified. In addition, and for me this is really very important, there is the layout of an inter-federal plan for integrated care in Belgium. We will select an external contractor to help us. We are far advanced in this respect, but I cannot yet tell you what the conclusion is, because the procedure is still in progress. This should support federal policy from now on, mid 2022, for the preparation and implementation of an inter-federal plan for integrated care and quintuple aim, and for the support at meso level of the change path towards integrated care in Belgium. So it's about supporting pilot projects integrated care, protocol 3 projects in our jargon, the mental health networks. That is badly needed, although that may sound like a back office. There's not exactly anything tangible in it for the actual patient. However, this is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u53	That plan does not focus on specific diseases, but aims to provide better integrated care to all citizens and chronically ill with multimorbidity, both somatic and psychological, building on the experience of the current plan for integrated care for chronically ill. The objectives are the change in the organisation of health care, the improvement of multidisciplinary work, the integration of highly fragmented care processes, the involvement of the patient as a partner in care, the alignment of care with citizens' life goals and priority needs within the local community. You will, of course, recognize the five objectives of the quintuple aim. This is a big challenge. A first draft of the integrated care inter-federal plan is expected at the end of 2023. So that will be for my successor, but we rule for eternity, as you know. I also regret that this is taking so much time, but it is very important that this happens properly. This goes beyond prevention and also focuses on timely and appropriate detection and treatment and avoiding complications. As far as treatment gap is concerned, the difference between those who need treatment and those who receive it effectively is good for osteoporosis in women over 70 compared to our neighbouring countries. This means that we may also need to pay sufficient attention to pure prevention. That is a competence of the Länder, but that must be their input into an integrated plan. We will have full consultation with the Länder in our inter-ministerial conference, as well as within the associated IKW working group on integrated care. My intention goes beyond merely the plan: I really want to reach a cooperation agreement on this issue. I don't want to anticipate the subject of osteoporosis. In such a plan you can name 'teaching gardens', but at the moment I dare not announce anything in this respect. We can think about it, but we can't decide on that today. It is a good example of what we need to address in an integrated way. For me, it is important that there should be concrete results by the end of this period of government, but I want to do this very well, hence the appointment of the external contractor, who wants to conclude in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u54	Minister, there is an absolute need for such an inter-federal plan for integrated care. It does indeed apply not only to osteoporosis, but also to other diseases for which progress has to be made, especially in the area of cooperation. You speak of the end of the legislature. So that's a bit of a wait, but you want a good plan, and that's also important. I hope that, in the interim period, attention can be paid to this in one way or another. I meet a lot of people on the ground who have fallen and who are not pointed out by the GP to a possible link to osteoporosis. At least I'm looking forward to the inter-federal plan. I also hope that this can be translated into practice, with all the actors involved, and that we can make progress, not only for the osteoporosis patients, but also for all those other people with chronic diseases who need such integrated care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u55	It's the same question twice, I guess?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u56	Yes, Mr President. I am using my speaking time to return to the previous discussion. Minister, a care plan for 2023, which is still a long time to come. I have a solution for you and Mrs. Vanpeborgh. This is reflected in the proposal for resolution No. 2630, scientifically substantiated and tangible. We can take action immediately. Especially in the case of secondary prevention, you do not need inter-federal consultation, because that fits in perfectly with your competence and you can already make a world of difference. Mr President, I would also like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u57	In doing so, you have tried in a handy way to turn the previous question into an actua debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u58	With a little freedom in the debate, it will also be a little more interesting, Mr President. As far as Vaccineopolis is concerned, that infrastructure of the University of Antwerp focuses on the implementation of vaccine studies, both in-patient studies and human challenge studies, always with voluntary participants. So no sick patients will be treated there. In outpatient studies, participants will be given an experimental vaccine and will be monitored for a certain period of time. So they will not be staying there. At present, these types of studies are already in the group of Professor Pierre van Damme at the University of Antwerp. A dozen such studies are carried out every year. In addition, Vaccineopolis human challenge studies will be conducted. This means that some of the participants are also exposed to a low dose of a diluted pathogen after administration of a candidate vaccine or placebo vaccine. The participants will be closely monitored and the immune response and disease risk can be studied in detail by the pathogen. This allows to make faster informed assessments of the efficacy of a vaccine. Those subjects will therefore be staying in Vaccineopolis. We have visited that and it is very pleasant there. I can really recommend it if you'd like to get out of the world for a moment. Some of them may show signs of disease. However, challenge studies can greatly accelerate vaccine development. This would also speed up the availability of the new vaccines to the population. There is also a great interest from industry in working with Vaccineopolis on such studies. There are several discussions on the testing of a new whooping cough vaccine as well as on the latest generation of COVID-19 vaccines. It is clear that this can only be done after approval by an ethics committee and the Belgian regulatory authorities, in short the FAGG. How many participants per year will be recruited for the studies depends greatly on the number of studies involving Vaccineopolis. This also depends on several factors, such as the stage of the studies and the available candidate vaccines in the pharmaceutical or research institutions. For outpatient studies, the number of participants in a study will range from a few dozen per study in a phase 1 study to several hundred per study in a phase 3 study. For the challenge studies there are about 20 to 30 participants per study. This is, of course, also linked to the possibility offered by the infrastructure in Antwerp. The aim is to be able to conduct several ambulatory studies and challenge studies in parallel each year. The aim is certainly to continue to grow Vaccineopolis and to attract several studies in the future. I find it difficult to say now what the maximum number of participants could be. That is a question that Professor Van Damme should answer himself. Vaccineopolis will therefore cooperate with various bodies, in particular research institutes, the KCE, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, CEPI and companies will fund the implementation of such clinical vaccine studies. There is no additional investment from commercial players in the infrastructure itself, and in addition, Vaccinepolis will be part of the future innovation ecosystem, under which University of Antwerp is now putting its shoulders under, in which companies and researcher can work intensively and correctly together. It really is a lever for added value, both scientific, social and economic. At present, funding comes from three pillars. The federal government pays 13.5 million euros. The Flemish government pays 4 million euros through the Flemish government's relay plan in which a project on infectious diseases was approved. The University of Antwerp brings in the remaining 11 million euros. Together, this makes the sum of EUR 27,5 million for a very impressive project and a very impressive infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u59	Minister, Vaccineopolis is a good project, but something is not clear to me yet. It is now addressed to the University of Antwerp and, on the French-speaking side, the ULB, but can we also cooperate with the other universities in this country, which then launch certain studies in Vaccineopolis? For the sake of preparation, I believe that real cooperation between the academics of the country is very important. I should have asked, but is that a procedure whereby several universities have applied? I continue to find it somewhat special that the project focuses on one university. Nevertheless, it is absolutely a good initiative. We certainly need to take this into account when we are once again faced with challenges such as the covid pandemic. In the meantime, I have also heard that indeed, patients are being recruited in a call in a manner of speaking. One more tip to take with you, if a further study on vaccines is being conducted, then perhaps the FAGG, which is already a partner, can be involved immediately when it comes to any accessories. You will remember that at some point the right syringes were not available for clinical trials. Now we can do it all right at once and ensure that patients are provided with the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u60	Minister, on Friday 11 March, a patient in Ganshoren contacted the pharmacy of guard. This person did so after consulting www.apotheek.be and after contacting the call centre. The person concerned received a telephone number from a pharmacy in Ganshoren and, via telephone contact with the guard pharmacist, attempted to obtain information on antigen or PCR tests, the location of a test centre and any medication, as the person in need suspected that he or she might have contracted a covid infection. In Dutch, however, the patient could not go to the pharmacy of guard. There was an answer in French, but that was not easy for the patient. When it appeared that there was no communication in Dutch and the patient did not understand the message, the phone was put down. So the demand for information and the referral to the care were actually ignored by that pharmacy. In the meantime, the person in need has lodged a complaint. Eventually, the person in question called the call center again and he was able to go to a guard pharmacist in Asse. There he was helped in Dutch. This story shows a problem that Flemish patients in Brussels experience daily. It is essential, however, to be helped in one's own language, whether in the pharmacy, hospital or general practitioner. Every patient must be able to be helped in Dutch. Do you believe that a waiting pharmacy should not discriminate or discriminate between patients and those in need of care who need advice, medication or testing according to whether they speak French or Dutch? How many such complaints did you receive in 2020, 2021, 2022? How will you deal with this, because you know it's not a one-time thing? How will you deal with that big problem in the capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u61	Mr President, I would like to pick up where the previous speaker ended up. The situation she has outlined is certainly not an isolated incident. Following the incident she mentioned, the weekly magazine 't Pallieterke made a sample. They made a hundred calls to a hundred different Brussels pharmacies with the simple question: "I suffer from high blood pressure. Can you help me with that?" If only to hear that it is best to refer to the general practitioner. The sample shows that four of the five Brussels pharmacists cannot provide information in their own language. However, there is clear regulation. There is the language law in administrative matters, to which pharmacists are subject, except as regards the organisation of their services and the legal status of their staff. There is also Article 28 of the coordinated laws of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions. There is the KB of 21 January 2009 teaching for pharmacists. If they are put together, then it is clear. One says that every pharmacy has to take part in the watch roll. A task which goes beyond the boundaries of a private company and which the law or public authorities have entrusted to them in the interest of the general public is covered by language legislation. Since all pharmacies must participate in the watchkeeping service, Brussels pharmacies must be able to serve Dutch-speaking patients in Dutch in accordance with the language law. There has already been an opinion from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring that the watchkeeping service of general practitioners in Brussels was already clearly subject to that language law. The analogy can easily be extended as far as the pharmacies are concerned, regardless of a number of other provisions in the laws and regulations governing pharmacies which can also be invoked for this purpose. These include, for example, delivery, labelling, prescription of medicinal products, provisions in the Guide to the Good Official Pharmaceutical Practice, all included as an annex to the Royal Decree I mentioned. Do you confirm, Minister, that Brussels pharmacists and, by extension, pharmacies should be able to serve Dutch-speaking patients in Dutch? What is your comment on the results of the survey, the sample of the 100 that only received the correct answer 17 times? The most important question, what measures are you taking to ensure that Dutch-speaking patients can always be helped in Dutch in all Brussels public pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u62	The questions referred to language legislation. In an initial analysis, it does indeed appear that the reasoning applicable to the guard service of the general practitioners could also apply to pharmacists. I say this with caution because language legislation is not my competence, but the competence of Mrs Verlinden, the Minister of the Interior. I think she will be able to inform you about the specific language situation and how problematic situations should be addressed on the basis of the legislation in force. I would suggest that you ask Mrs Verlinden the question. I'll let her know that I made that suggestion to you. Mrs. Depoorter asked if I know of multiple complaints of the same type. No, until before this question I had no knowledge of any other complaints of this kind. It goes without saying that participation in the watchkeeping service is an obligation which, if necessary, can also be enforced through the law on the exercise of health professions and or the code of ethics. If the specific complaint, which gave rise to Mrs Depoorter's question, is lodged, it will be dealt with and examined by the competent administration on receipt in accordance with the proper procedure. I've already asked my administration to take a good look at that. Moreover, I also think it would be good if the FAGG with the professional groups, in this case APB and OPHACO - irrespective of what is ultimately the legal verdict, and I refer to Mrs Verlinden - would consider how a bilingual watch could be organised. My administration can consult APB and OPHACO usefully on this and I will ask to do so. Mrs Pas, if I understand correctly, you say in your third question that every healthcare provider in Brussels or at least every pharmacist should be bilingual. That's not so obvious. We must have a sufficient supply and there must be enough pharmacists. The discussion here is about the services provided by pharmacists and guards.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u63	Minister, you minimize the problem. You say it's about the pharmacist's services. You know I'm a pharmacist. In my pharmacy, seven languages are spoken, just so as not to make any serious mistakes. The official language of the country should not be spoken to patients in Brussels, which is officially bilingual! We don't sell candy, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u64	I didn't say that. I have made a difference between the question that each individual pharmacist is multilingual...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u65	The pharmacist of guard must be in Dutch...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u66	Will you listen to what I am saying? With regard to Mrs Pas, I pointed out the difference between the statement that each individual must be bilingual or multilingual, and the requirement that people should be able to be served in every watch service in every pharmacy in their language. It's not exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u67	Mr Minister, you are talking about 'every care provider' and 'apothecary services'. A pharmacist, I repeat, doesn't sell candy. The difference between a microgram, a milliliter, a droplet, a coffee spoon or a soup spoon is huge and can have deadly consequences. Don't minimize that. It's not something to sit down with the services. It is a working point that guarantees that the Flemish patient is served in his own language in a correct and scientific manner. If that Flemish patient does not understand French (or any other language they use), then the patient should still be able to use the medication correctly, be correctly referred to a medical centre, be tested correctly in his own language, an official language of the country. It's not the first time you've minimized that language problem. I asked you the question about the Fund for Medical Accidents (FMO) and the experts. Here too, you say you can do the best you can to ensure that patients and caregivers are helped in their own language. The maximum possible is not enough. The Fleming has the right to be helped in Dutch, and the same applies to emergency services in Brussels hospitals. That is not something to'see', it is a working point that should be very high on your list of priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u68	Mr Minister, I did not ask anywhere in my question that every individual pharmacist should be able to speak Dutch. It's about the pharmacy, not the pharmacist. The pharmacy! If anyone in that pharmacy...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u69	You confirm the important difference... Listen to each other first!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u70	But that does not mean that I am satisfied with your answer! Every pharmacy must take part in the watch-roll: I have just read you this legislation. The Law of 10 May 2015 on the practice of healthcare professions states: "When a permanence has been set up for the pharmacies open to the public, all pharmacies open to the public which appear on the watch list shall participate in it in accordance with the rules laid down by the King." Let that language legislation be a rule of that now! Language law is a rule of public order, and you refer it to professional organisations. Get over that together! A language law must be applied. If this does not happen in practice, it is up to the government to ensure that there is a mechanism whereby it can be enforced that every pharmacy in Brussels can be served in Dutch. That is not the case today, however. I agree with the colleague: you minimize the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u71	However, I am pleased that you have explained to my colleague that there is a difference between the pharmacy and the individual pharmacist. I suggest that you explain that to your colleague after the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u72	Minister, you draw it on bottles, but it is a good thing that you laugh at that, because in fact you confirm what has just been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u73	Mr President, Minister, in his report No. 333 makes a number of recommendations regarding the reimbursement of implants in the event of hearing loss. There is a RIZIV budget for hearing aids and implants of over 80 million. This budget includes both the reimbursement of classical hearing aids and the ear implants. However, rapidly changing technology is increasing the proportion of implants. Therefore, in 2018 the RIZIV asked the Knowledge Centre to examine the refund criteria of the implants. There has also been a previous movement in this sense. We then made adjustments for children, with regard to implants. In its report, the Knowledge Centre stresses the importance of recording the data for hearing implants. The report further recommends that the reimbursement criteria be adjusted on the basis of the recorded data and the scientific knowledge gained. Another recommendation suggests making similarities between the RIZIV and the hospitals where these implants are placed. The KCE report refers to the existing system with heart defibrillator centers. However, such an agreement is preferably multidisciplinary in nature. Not only the correct implantation is important, but also the patient's education regarding the correct use, control and maintenance. After all, it is a medical device. Sometimes guidance is also needed. Where do you stand with this registration to record the most relevant data? Does this registration take into account the FAGG Central Tracing Register, in order to be able to apply the Only Once principle and thus avoid unnecessary duplication and administrative duplication? Will this knowledge be used to adjust the refund in the long term? Are you considering making volume price agreements with the producers? Are you considering making multidisciplinary agreements with the hospitals where implants are placed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u74	Mrs De Block, you raise very precise questions, which I appreciate, because that way you define an agenda. I will perhaps disappoint you because I am giving a rather general answer, which does not mean that I do not think that this agenda is important, but that we have indeed not yet very clearly defined how we will proceed with it. The Report No. 333 of the KCE was discussed last year by the Committee on Refund Implants and Invasive Medical Devices. Initially, there was the presentation by the Knowledge Centre, followed by a discussion in the Commission and the examination of the agreements by the experts within the domain. In the end, the Commission has focused priority on extending the possibilities for reimbursement of cochlear implants, such as lowering the threshold for the worst ear in case of asymmetric hearing loss or providing a cochlear implant in case of unilateral deafness. These dossiers will be developed in accordance with the principles of the Commission on the basis of an evaluation of various criteria, such as the therapeutic value of the tool and the budgetary impact. It is possible, but not yet decided, and therefore I apologise for giving this general answer to your specific questions, which, as a result of this exercise, is being considered to work with registers in order to follow up certain data, which is indeed important if we are to do it right. In the same vein, the current reimbursement conditions in the list of implants and invasive medical devices in terms of their pricing and multidisciplinaryness will undoubtedly also be discussed and adapted if necessary. At present, the refund of the cochlear implant already requires that the necessary support should be available in the area of logo therapy or rehabilitation. I do think that this should be looked at further. After all, it is not just about a device that needs to be implanted. So far my brief answer, but I have certainly taken note of your questions and discussed them extensively with my staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u75	It all takes time. It is a continuation of the policy that I also tried to pursue. The hearing is an important sense. This is especially true of children, but more and more people are becoming deaf, and that is not just old people. It is important that we deal with this registration in a modern way. You're a little vague. The agenda is not yet concrete. I note that you will pick it up and put it on your agenda for the coming time. Such a reform always requires a lot of consultation, but in the end a result is achieved. A lot of people are waiting for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u76	Mr Minister, reading the eID card with the patient or the person in need of assistance during each home visit by the home nurse was introduced by Mrs De Block. During the covid pandemic, this was put on hold for possible infections, but you would retake that measure. You have consulted the professional associations on this matter. I'm getting signals from some self-employed home nurses that that's a pretty time-snatching way of working. It would take two minutes to read the eID and that several times a day, every week and every month. The measure was invoked to prevent fraud. That is, of course, a legitimate rule, but I do have a number of questions about it. What percentage of self-employed home nurses are represented by the various professional associations? How many nurses are connected? How is the measure carried out if two associations support the rule? Do you think that is a sufficiently representative reflection of the field of work? Do you recognise that reading for self-employed home nurses is a significant investment in time? The question is also whether it is necessary to read the eID in full each time? Have you or the home nursing associations made any other proposals to combat fraud and set up a proper tracking system?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u77	You are asking me a question about representativeness. The structure of the committee is no doubt known to you. You ask how many percent self-employed nurses are represented through their connection. It's hard to calculate. The RIZIV has made the assessment, which I would like to say with caution, namely that in 2018 the professional organisations of self-employed home nurses together represented about one third of the members of the number of self-employed home nurses. Undoubtedly, some self-employed nurses will not be members of an organisation or members of other organisations. The representatives of home nurses in the Convention Committee shall be appointed by a detailed procedure, including the counting of the self-employed nurses from the professional organizations. All cartels and professional associations wishing to do so can apply. So anyone can be a representative. That seems essential to me. No one's gonna be excluded. It is difficult to say otherwise, as far as the procedure is concerned. From 1 October 2017, home nurses are obliged to verify the identity of the patient when applying the electronic third-party payment scheme, by reading the electronic identity card or by another means of identification. The reasons for verifying the identity of the patient relate to the fight against fraud and administrative simplification: the nurse immediately knows that he has the patient mentioned on the prescription; the sickness funds know what care the patient has received; the system allows for efficient cooperation between home nurses and sickness funds and avoids, among other things, administrative errors and errors in billing. It has been discussed in depth with the representatives of professional organizations for more than a year. As you yourself point out, the vast majority of nurses are undoubtedly working correctly, but the system makes possible fraud much more difficult, especially fraud by the patient with his identity. Compared to most other accepted methods of identifying an identity, the eID method is the most efficient and fastest. The rules do not provide for exceptions to the obligation to verify the identity of the patient. However, the measure shall be kept under constant review and may be adjusted where necessary. For example, consideration could be given to the possibility of verification via itsme. Signals like yours should be included in discussions on this. I realise that it requires an effort from the nurses, a group that is making enormous efforts to maintain the quality of care and also comes from a difficult period, but I think it has been a useful measure. However, as has already been said, we must constantly review him and see if we can still alleviate the burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u78	Minister, I asked for representativeness because I remember that it was very difficult to reach home nurses for personal protective equipment in covid times, because they were not members of professional associations. Your answer confirms what I already felt. A third is very little. That is as much as the number of Flemings that the Vivaldi government represents. The decisions it makes have not been democratically acted upon, and so it is in this case, even though you say that there has been consultation and it is therefore a decision that has been taken. Let's take a look at the facts. The home nurse should make a status of the patients and forward them weekly. It could also be used to combat fraud. For example, a home nurse who sees 30 patients a day loses no less than five working days at the patient's bed in one month, while we already have a shortage of nurses and hands on the bed in these times. It is therefore worth considering alternatives where you are indeed exercising some control, without overburdening the home nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u79	Mr Minister, augmentation therapy, also called replacement therapy, is used for patients with severe alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency who have emphysema. There are not many in our country, but it is a serious condition. Since 2021 this product has also been produced in Belgium, but since the therapy in Belgium is not reimbursed for all patients, that production is actually exclusively for export and is not used to treat Belgian patients. In 2017, the European Respiratory Society published a statement on alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, which supports the use of augmentation therapy. It was concluded that there was sufficient evidence that therapy slows down the decrease in emphysema and that there is therefore sufficient scientific evidence to administer the medicine. A therapy has been approved in Denmark since January. Do you agree that a cost-efficiency analysis is not always the most efficient and accurate way to assess the financial impact on orphan medicinal products? In this particular case, are you considering another economic model, which takes into account the value that a treated patient can bring to society? For example, such a person can go to work. If not, why? What is the status of Grifols' dialogue with RIZIV? Has a dialogue been started? Given the risks for lung patients in the current covid pandemic or any flare-up in the autumn, would you still consider the reimbursement of augmentation therapy? In what way does the assessment of our country's reimbursement differ from that of the countries where it has been approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u80	Mrs Depoorter, as augmentation therapy used to increase serum alpha-1 antitrypsin value, Pulmolast is only reimbursed by the RIZIV for patients who have previously been on treatment. Indeed, new patients are no longer eligible for a refund. The specialty Respreeza, on the other hand, has twice been refused reimbursement in the past two years, mainly because of a lack of proven clinical added value. Respreeza is not registered as an orphan medicine and should therefore submit a pharmacodynamic analysis when applying for reimbursement as a Class 1 medicine. Therefore, I see no reason why the manufacturer of Respreeza should be exempted from a pharmacodynamic analysis based on the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018. For purely legal reasons, I cannot deviate from the requirement of a pharmacodynamic analysis in a class 1 procedure, as has just been explained, for a specialty that does not have an orphan medicinal product status. According to the latest information, Grifols has not yet contacted the RIZIV or the Commission's Agency for Medicinal Products. If, as you say, she has new clinical data, the company is, of course, free to re-subscribe her file. The framework in which I consider a fee is, as always, primarily based on the Commission's proposal on medicinal products. The lack of proven therapeutic added value can only be remedied by providing long-term data. I will not comment on national decisions on compensation elsewhere in Europe. You quote a country in which augmentation therapy is reimbursed, but you do not quote countries that, like Belgium, have refused reimbursement. That's, I think, a little short. The European Medicines Agency shall issue marketing authorisations while the European Member States exercise their legal tasks and powers to evaluate a medicinal product with a view to a possible reimbursement, as well as to compare it with alternatives, both on a clinical and on a financial basis. I see that national data change by 2024-2025 at the earliest, when the European Health Technology Assessment for orphan medicinal products, among other things, would be launched. I wish that very much, of course. For the time being, however, we are still working on national procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u81	Minister, we will quote other countries for Kaftrio, because, of course, we are quoting what suits us best for a particular question. The fact is, it's been approved once and a lot of patients suffer from the condition. It's the orphan disease most common in our country. It is a permanent problem that we are often stricter on orphan diseases than on EEA opinions. We want to make even more clear from clinical studies where the conduct of these tests is very difficult. Ethical questions can be asked. They are very sick patients, with a completely different perspective on life and their participation in society. I refer once again to my motion for a resolution on orphan medicinal products. In your opinion, you indicate that all problems have been solved, but this example clearly shows that patients with orphan diseases are very often left in the cold and are not helped as should be done with a progressive and innovative health policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u82	Mr Minister, my next question concerns PICC catheters for intravenous medication. You know that this is a very important cornerstone of our current health care, especially in cancer patients. 70% to 90% of hospitalized patients receive an IV catheter during their stay. 35 to 50 % of these catheters should be removed early due to complications ranging from mild to severe complications. There are PICC catheters that are inserted and can remain on the patient's body for a slightly longer period of time. For example, the medication can be administered via the PICC line. But there's a problem. Patients are also treated intravenously in home care. That's where the PICC line could be an answer. Are you aware of the added value of the PICC catheters versus the classic catheters? If so, what is your position on the insertion of PICC catheters by Belgian nurses specialists? What is the state of play with regard to the legal framework for the placement of PICC catheters by nurses specialists in Belgium? That's the problem I mentioned. This still needs to be done by a doctor. Will you change the legal framework in this respect so that the PICC catheters can also be brought in by nurses specialists? What is your position on the need for specialisation in vascular access management in Belgian hospitals? What initiatives will you take in this regard? Have you had any discussions with the hospitals on the matter? Then I'm talking about complications that could occur with a regular catheter and the added value this PICC catheter could bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u83	Mrs. Depoorter, the implantation of a PICC catheter takes place in the intervention radiology, in the intensive care or in the operating headquarters under local anaesthetic. This was originally developed for the administration of long-term treatments with medicinal products that are aggressive to the veins, mainly in oncology. The professional title nursing specialist was introduced in the 2019 legislation, but no implementing decisions were published. Therefore, the kind of services that the nurse specialist will be allowed to perform is not yet established. Under the existing legal framework, the placement of a peripheral venous catheter is a nurse's technical performance as provided for in the Royal Decree of 18 June 1990 which establishes the list of nurses' benefits in kind. On the question of what is understood by a peripheral venous catheter, the Technical Committee for Nursing has issued an opinion. This committee states that the place where the catheter is inserted, peripheral or not, is not relevant. The criterion is the exact place where the top, i.e. the extremities of the catheter, ends up. A catheter whose end is located in a peripheral vein is a peripheral catheter. A catheter whose end reaches a central vein is a central catheter, which is governed by the regulations of the central catheters. In the case of a catheter type PICC-line, the catheter ends up centrally at the junction between the vena cava superior and the right ear. So it's not a nurse technical act placement of a peripheral venous catheter. This performance is therefore not allowed for nurses. It's a medical certificate that needs to be done in a surgical context. A nurse may remove the PICC-line catheter on medical prescription. There must be a procedure for every nurse's performance. The nurse shall be adequately formed and experienced and have the necessary ability to perform the relevant performance correctly and safely. The list of nurses' benefits is the same for all nurses with the exception of the list in Annex 4 to the Royal Decree of 18 June 1990, footnote 1, which establishes the list of nurses' benefits in kind. The performance of Annex 4 shall be reserved for nurses specialised in intensive care or emergency care, and shall be carried out in the functions of intensive care, specialised emergency services, mobile emergency care and emergency medical care. Performance of Annex 4 shall also be permitted for nurses specialised in pediatric and neonatology, when performed in the services and functions of paediatric and/or neonatal intensive care, specialized emergency care and emergency medical care. I'm getting to my point. PICC-line is not listed in Annex 4. I think that this is a legal fact, and there are reasons for it. You ask how we are going to proceed with setting a vision, what the role and task of a specialist nurse is and what the professional profile is. I have already said that we have an interfederal task force with regard to the care ladder, the model for nurses. There was a working group on basic nursing and a working group on specializations. In the meantime, this working group has drawn up a report which discusses three job profiles - specialist nurse, nurse specialist and clinical nurse researcher - but this has not yet been further developed. Your last question, unless I've misunderstood them, is whether we would provide a specialization. I have not yet received any advice on this matter. So there is still a long way to go to say that something specific will already be presented to the Minister, although the working party has already submitted a first report, but it remains at a generic level of three job profiles. That is far from being so concrete that I could respond to the last element of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, my question has everything to do with the optimal organisation of vascular management. How can we optimally administer aggressive medicines to our patients? Then we have a choice between an ordinary IV, where the veins are indeed broken, or a gate catheter. That is what people do most today. When it comes to a slightly shorter therapy, that PICC can be an effective alternative. However, it is used very little today, because it is not part of that nurse's performance. If we want to think about the organisation of care, we must take innovation with us, and we must include it in the legal framework and in the training of our nurses. So my call is to examine it and weigh it down, because that gate catheter is not always easy for the patient. It needs to be washed out and so on. It's also a little more expensive than a PICC. So we really need to use it in an optimal way, to give the right medicine to the patient in the right way, by someone who is expertly trained. This can be done effectively by a specialist nurse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u85	Minister, I am with a number of experts looking at the whole chain, which has to do with the prevention of child abuse and abuse. These experts point to a lack of knowledge on injury recognition following abuse or abuse. There are several reasons for this and for most of them the Communities are competent, but I believe that the Children's Abuse Centre should also play a greater role in this and deserve more resources. More attention should also be paid to training. I know that they fall within the competence of the Communities, but can we not, from the federal level, pay a little more attention to this through the conditions of recognition? It is a question of the basic knowledge of primary care. These include doctors, emergency departments, hospitals and so on, especially if we want to work preventively. I am aware that there are projects in some hospitals, often on their own initiative or because the expertise is present in those hospitals, but unfortunately often with a single person. A general sensitivity to this would be better, so that things can be noticed that are not seen at first sight. This type of injury recognition cannot be taught from adult injury recognition. In children, it's very different. Professor Adriaenssens, as you know, also points out very often that these are other signals and other physical characteristics for which attention should be paid. So it's really about specialization. I have always been a supporter of faster detection and information flow. This is often still a problem in policy, although this is largely in the Community's hands. What role could you play in this, particularly in relation to the conditions for recognition, training and initiatives in hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u86	Mrs Van Peel, you are doing a very important and good job by trying to figure that out. My answer may be a little disappointing, because I would like to have a little more insight into it, but I don't have that at the moment. I'll explain in a moment. I agree with you that the medical recognition of injuries resulting from violence, not only in children, but also in the case of sexual violence in adults and so on, is a very important task. In general, hospitals are well aware of this, but it is likely that the experience varies considerably from one hospital to another. That depends a little on what geographical area a hospital is located in. A first reflection that I have, which is not original and does not help us much further, is that a multidisciplinary environment in this area is important for doctors and paramedics. One should actually have cooperation with allies in other services and disciplines, so that it can be detected and acted upon when there is child abuse. As far as the multidisciplinary organisation is concerned, we are making progress, but all the problems have not yet been resolved. That's a very general answer. However, I will also say something more specific about what we are doing. I can give you something, but it's not entirely focused on what you're describing, and I don't think it's very documented myself. Since 2009, there have been regular training cycles for hospital care providers on the detection, treatment and follow-up of victims of intrafamilial and sexual violence and female genital mutilation on behalf of the Minister of Health. Identifying and detecting victims of such violence is part of those training cycles. They're continuing. By the way, I'm making a small side jump in 2022 an offer of basic training on female genital mutilation. During the COVID-19 pandemic, an online learning path was developed on sexual violence for healthcare professionals in hospitals. I would also like to see such an online learning path developed for intra-family violence, as well as specific modules on the target groups of the elderly and children in such learning paths. However, I have not yet come to that. As a result of your questions, I asked the question in order to learn more about the success of this training and the effort required to do so. Unfortunately, I have not yet received that answer, because it is not systematically recorded and kept up to date. I believe that, in addition to the general awareness and the importance of multidisciplinarity, these training cycles are part of the answer we can offer. I think that we should indeed develop specific attention for children versus others in the target group. Take your proposal with you and I will continue to try to exert pressure to develop it in that direction. I believe that this is the most important thing I can do operationally in response to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u87	Minister, this is absolutely not a reproach to you, but it does prove the sense of the experts. The fact that there is no overview and data is the result of a lack of commitment. If you would like to develop something about this problem, which I would already love, I would advise you to involve Peter Adriaenssens. I had a long talk with him about the specificity, also with the Children's Abuse Expertise Centre, by the way. If one wishes to include it in the training cycles, there are very few people with the right expertise in Belgium at the moment. In the Netherlands there are many more. Even the lessons that already exist today ignore many realities. It'd be a start. Flanders also plays a major role in this, because there they have a centre that could take the lead to gather that expertise and then spread it to all stakeholders. So the problem is not just on the federal level. Today there really is an emptiness and I am often called upon to do so in the field. My father has been a general practitioner all his life and at our home that has been a theme at the end of his life. He has often told me that, when he looks back at his practice with the stories of patients who came back so many years ago, he has passed through a lot without realizing it, actually because of a lack of knowledge. We can work here at the federal level on professional secrecy and sharing of information, but it starts with things, of course, with a child who will never speak, not with the adult who still has the chance to speak, no matter how difficult it is for victims. I understand your answer and I do not blame you, but it would be very nice if you would do something about it. I therefore really recommend that you include the skills and knowledge of Peter Adriaenssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u88	Minister, you know that I believe very strongly in home treatment for certain diseases. For many conditions, such as sleep apnea, oxygen therapy, medical nutrition and kidney dialysis, such treatment at home is also perfectly possible. Today, private companies supply the necessary technology on behalf of hospitals. They then install the devices, provide the education to the patient and the caregivers, and they are responsible for maintenance and repairs. At present, there is no legal framework for that kind of service that allows companies to operate in a grey zone. The payment for the services they provide is made by the hospitals according to the agreements they conclude with the companies. In its 330 report, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE) noted that a number of sleep laboratories carried out part of their tasks were to set up and maintain the CPAP device, the recording of data. It subcontracts to private companies. In this context, the KCE recommends setting a precise legal framework and accreditation criteria for these companies. Companies that comply will then be able to operate on the basis of a medical prescription. They will also be reimbursed by the sickness funds rather than by the hospital, as is currently the case. How do you view the creation of a legal framework, as recommended by the KCE, for private service companies that install, maintain and restore certain technologies at home, but also provide the patient and his environment with training in the use of that technology? Do you want to work on such a legal framework and on a direct reimbursement by health insurance rather than through hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u89	Mr De Caluwé, the legal framework for companies installing technology in the patient's home was created in the previous legislature by Articles 63, 64 and 65 of the Law of 18 December 2016 laying down various health provisions. Those provisions created the required legal framework in the Law of 15 December 2013 on medical devices. Pursuant to Article 59 of that law on medical devices, companies which install and/or maintain medical devices outside a hospital in connection with the medical treatment of a patient must establish, implement and maintain a system of self-checking. In order to comply with Article 59, the company may use guides approved by the FAGG under Article 60 (1) of the same law. The King shall determine the procedures and detailed rules for the approval by the FAGG of such guides. This can therefore also be further developed per KB. The procedure and detailed rules for the adoption by the FAGG of such guides were laid down in a Royal Decree of 30 October 2018. In other words, we have already developed the provision of Article 60 §1 of the law on medical devices. In another Royal Decree dated 10 October 2021, other provisions of the same law were further implemented. The Royal Decree, which was established in this legislature, lays down, in particular, the principles on which the auto-control system should be based and lays down the exemption criteria for the auto-control system of foreign companies. There is therefore a legal framework for companies that install technology at the patient's home for the treatment of certain diseases. The further implementation of this legal framework is still under way. For example, it is still necessary to develop specific guides for certain medical conditions treated with medical devices installed and maintained by companies at home. The guides to be approved by the FAGG can then be used by companies that place and maintain such tools when working with a system of self-checking. In the short term, the FAGG, the RIZIV and the stakeholders concerned will continue discussions on whether it should be imposed that only companies using such guides approved by the FAGG can place and maintain medical devices in the patient's home or whether this would be better made mandatory. Needs for registration of companies using such a guide approved by the FAGG for certain medical devices will also be discussed. Mr de Caluwe, what I really want to give you with this somewhat long introduction is the following. If the legal framework is complete, we do have a different context for health insurance. At that time, in certain cases, the work of these companies is likely to be directly compensated by the mutualities. For the diagnosis and treatment of sleep apnea, the KCE Report 330 indeed recommends that an explicit role be given to specialised companies which can then be directly compensated by health insurance for their work. However, I must point out that the KCE 330 report on sleep apnea calls for a much broader reform, which goes beyond just a role for specialised companies. The RIZIV is currently working on the implementation of all the proposals contained in the KCE report, although part of the work should also be done at the FAGG to approve for sleep apnea the guide mentioned above, which should therefore be used by the companies. The obligation for companies providing services in the field of snapapnea to use such a guide approved by the FAGG as well as the registration by the FAGG of those companies should, as I indicated earlier, be further regulated in royal decrees. I'll sum up. The general legal framework governing the work of specialised companies is therefore in fact complete, with the obligation for companies to operate a system of self-checking, possibly using a guide approved by the FAGG in accordance with a certain procedure. What needs to be done now, and what is still being worked on, is to approve such guides for certain diseases, whether or not to impose them, where 'laying down' might be the logic of using them, and registering the companies that operate in a particular domain in this way. When I look at the KCE report 330, I tend to say that sleep apnea is certainly a priority for the further implementation of the existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. You have referred to quite a few articles of law, which I will have to look into, but I suppose with your answer I have sufficient information. Above all, I remember that the regulation is a work in progress. In any case, I am pleased to hear that, because if we can provide more patients at home, then I think that will only benefit our health care, and in particular the patients themselves, as they may prefer to be treated in a home environment rather than in a cold hospital, in order to formulate it with some contrast.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u91	Mr de Caluwe, I will give you the written preparation of the answer, because it specifies these articles of law more than I have told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u92	I'd love to. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u93	Mr Minister, the question about the activation of the emergency law on health care in hospitals has recently been asked again by Zorgnet-Icuro. I am referring to the still difficult situation in hospitals at the moment. In the hospital Saint-Luc 70 beds are closed due to a shortage of staff. The UZ Gent has distributed a communication that 50 beds are closed or were closed due to a shortage of staff on the bed. When I submitted this question, the call of Zorgnet-Icuro, the largest care dome in Flanders, was supported by Professor Van Gucht. Are you prepared to re-activate that emergency law if it is really necessary, now or possibly in the autumn? The caregivers, the caregivers and nurses who have kept strong in the corona pandemic are cracking now. They're out. They're tired. They don't have any help. Are you prepared to re-activate the Emergency Act to ensure that nurses, however difficult it is, are assisted by volunteers or by healthcare professionals to take on certain care tasks under supervision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u94	Mrs Depoorter, I fully share your concern about the pressure on care and care staff. After a long period of great effort, this pressure remains very high. For the sake of clarity, on the one hand there is the Emergency Law of 6 November 2020, which is nevertheless a very specific law. It was the result of a crisis that was unseen at the time as a result of the pandemic. On the other hand, last year there was the amendment of the law of 4 November 2020 on the testing and vaccination strategy. This means that exceptional measures still apply in the context of testing and vaccination, but also, not least for the provision of staff in hospitals, that there are derogations until 1 July of this year. These may be extended for a maximum period of 6 months by a decision of the Council of Ministers. Measures have also been taken in the field of student labour, etc. In other words, the question is which legislation we are talking about. There's been a lot of discussion about that. You'll remember that. What I intend to do is not to wait until I get a question from the Länder. This question may not come about spontaneously. I will ask myself in the IMC whether I should propose to the federal government to extend the exemption legislation on what can happen in the test and vaccination strategy for another six months. In addition, I believe that we may not need an emergency law of the type of November 6th. I do believe that we need to think hard about everything we can do to reduce the pressure on care. But I believe, in all honesty, that this is a deep structural problem of people's supply. As I said earlier, we have set up a tripartite working group on the attraction of the nursing profession. There I want to develop an agenda with the social partners. Perhaps that will be an agenda that is more focused on what we can do in the next legislature, rather than what we can do now. I think that we really have a fundamental problem of labour shortages in many sectors, but certainly also in health care. I am not sure that an emergency law such as the one adopted on 6 November will be resolved, if I may be so honest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u95	Indeed, Minister, you will not be able to solve this in a structural manner by means of an emergency law. We have to establish today that care still needs to be postponed, that beds are not available because there is insufficient care staff. I know that it is difficult in certain, mostly French-speaking centres, because nurses have received very specific training. However, it is your job to find a solution together with the nurses so that it becomes workable for the nurses, that care can be guaranteed and the patient can really get the care. During the COVID-19 period, we noticed that it really helped if certain tasks could be taken over so that the patients were given a certain care in time. You must be structural, but you had to do that for two years. We are experiencing problems today and we need to tackle them. I think it's worth considering putting all the hands that can help the bed effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u96	First of all, Minister, I would like to point out that these were not originally aggregate questions: I had a question for you and a question for Minister Verlinden, but she referred me to you. For some time now we have been getting reports that anyone who has to call for urgent medical assistance, especially at the language borders, has to deal with shifts of which no one knows a word of Dutch. This is because these teams are either from across the language border or from Brussels, where this problem is generally known, and it does not take so closely to comply with language legislation. Sometimes the teams also come from across the border. That sometimes has very bad consequences. It is a pity that Mrs De Block has already left. During the previous legislature, I regularly questioned her about this, because the previous government had intended to deal with the problem. That was even in the coalition agreement. At first, the then government thought it would do so in the context of a wider reorganisation of urgent medical care. After that, having rightly or wrongly considered that this was not the right track, it would have wanted to achieve this through the legislation on professional activity. Minister, I do not want to wait for an incident to ask you for a current state of affairs in the file. Firstly, is there already satisfactory legislation in this area, which guarantees that patients in Flanders, including Brussels, who call for urgent medical care, can always be treated in Dutch? Secondly, if this is not yet the case or not enough, will you take an initiative yourself? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u97	Mr Minister, this question is actually a follow-up to the question on the provision of services to pharmacists, which has just been raised. You do not take it so closely with language legislation and it appears that patients in the capital are very difficult to obtain urgent help, care, simply help or whatever in their own language. Minister, what action will you take to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u98	Mrs Pas, Mrs Depoorter, the previous government has indeed sought a legal anchoring of the language aspect in the law on urgent medical care and in the law on the exercise of the profession. The previous government has not been able to fulfil that objective. In short, the principle of equality has always been called into question, whereby every healthcare professional should be able to prove that he or she is powerful in the three languages of the country, in particular because every healthcare professional is entitled to exercise his or her profession throughout Belgium when he or she obtains his or her visa. The result is that we can only base ourselves on the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966 on the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. According to that old legislation, all mosquito teams of all hospitals located within the Brussels-Capital Region and the ambulances of the Brussels fire department should guarantee bilingualism. They are all subject to the Royal Decree. The public hospitals are entirely covered, the private and university hospitals are only covered by that royal decree of 1966 when they carry out a public mission beyond the limits of a private company and who have entrusted them with the law or public power in the interest of the general public. This is particularly the case with the organisation of an emergency service recognised by the competent administration and/or a medical emergency group, a MUG. The language role of the staff in this respect is of secondary importance, and bilingualism must be guaranteed, which brings us back to the difference between the service and the individual. For the mosquito teams and ambulance services from across the language line, the maps are different. Since they are located in a monolingual area, they recruit their staff monolingually. That is so on both sides of the language border. I would also like to point out the code of the health care professional who states that he should treat and inform his patient in his language as much as possible. Many health professionals, especially those in urgent medical care, are doing their utmost to follow this as best they can, even if they are deployed across the language line or if the patient speaks a language other than our three national languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u99	At the time, Minister, I was afraid that the objective would not be met, and that was established with me today, but that obviously does not solve the problem. In the case of emergency aid, not only timing is important. Minutes may be of vital importance, but it is not possible that there are still incidents today with ambulance or mosquito teams operating in another language area, because none of the members of the team is able to speak the language of that language area. In such a situation, it can be very dangerous if one does not properly understand the patient or who is there. Not only time, but also good communication with the patient are essential aspects which I repeat may be vital. Making sure that at least someone from a team who drives out at the language border understands both languages and can communicate with patients seems to me to be a very important condition, which you should be able to anchor in some way, regardless of the legalistic issue, in which I agree with the Standing Committee on Language Control that those services are subject to language legislation. I think it is extremely important that this is the case in practice, and I had hoped for a little more action on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u100	Mrs Depoorter has left the room for a moment, so no reply from her.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u101	Mrs Pas, with regard to your first and fourth questions, I would add that the language used in Brussels hospitals is a very old one. However, I do not have information on the language framework of the various hospitals. Language legislation is not my competence, but that of my colleague, Mrs Verlinden. If necessary, it will be able to inform you about the specific situation and whether it is considering an investigation and action. If she wishes to engage in dialogue, I am of course prepared to do so. You yourself refer to the Vlaams Meldpunt Language complaints in Brussels hospitals, which was established by the Flemish Agency for Health and Health. This hotline also maps out the language problems in Brussels health care. If so, my Flemish colleague Wouter Beke can provide information on bilingualism in Brussels hospitals. As far as your second and third questions are concerned, I know that there is no specific legislation so far governing bilingualism in private hospitals, apart from the urgent medical treatment situation. As I have just said, the law on patients' rights stipulates that communication with patients must be made in a clear and comprehensible language. In general, I would like to say the following. Since the sixth state reform, the federal power to impose conditions on hospitals has been very limited, contrary to what might be thought. Many of the concrete conditions which create the framework within which hospitals operate have become a competence of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u102	Minister, I have already asked Minister Verlinden this question. I can tell you that she is not prepared to take initiatives. It is hiding by saying that this is not in the coalition agreement. Then it is very easy to clear up the problem. You know as well as I do that a lot of things that are not in the coalition agreement are being dealt with today and rightly so. That does not solve the problem that exists. I would insist that you and your colleague, responsible for language legislation, sit together. It's too important. It's bad enough someone has to stay in a hospital. If that person cannot be cared for and informed in his own language, then that is a great pity. The Brussels Vice-President referred years ago, because of course it is not a new problem, to the attempts on the French-speaking side to mess with the status of certain services and to how creative one is to be no longer covered by language legislation. For example, by putting the Brussels OCMW hospitals in the Iris dome, language legislation no longer applies. The vice-governor has raised this on several occasions. I hope you will also urge your Home Secretary. We have known for decades that the Brussels authority which supervises the application of the language law is not doing anything about it. Language legislation remains a federal competence. With this government you can perfectly organise a separate administrative supervision that is capable of doing so. I see that the action will not come from your side either. I shall therefore urge Mrs Verlinden once again to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u103	Mr Minister, I will begin with my question about the booster shot. I've already asked the most about that. Mr Minister, have you already agreed on the distribution of the cost of the booster injection? I've already asked you about that. At that time you were not sure who would pay what, but at that time there was at that time EUR 527 million in the revenue of the Länder. I contacted the Flemish Minister for the Budget at the time, but he could not confirm that there was an agreement. What do I determine now? In the case of budgetary control notifications, this EUR 527 million has been changed to EUR 302 million. You will explain that the COVAX vaccines would be carried federally. At the same time, the revenue is EUR 123.9 million for testing, but also for other covid-related matters handled by the RIZIV. You will also earn this income from the Länder. What agreements have you made with the Länder? Has this been decided at the IMC and within the financial services? What is the current state of payment of rolling out the booster needle? What appointments did you make there? What amounts have you allocated per Land? According to De Standaard, 3,160 euros per inhabitant were spent to combat the corona pandemic. This includes support for families, various measures to support the economy and so on. The federal government paid 27 billion euros on the basis of the published report of the Supreme Court of Finance. For the Länder, this was EUR 9.4 billion, but this was mainly about support for companies. In the context of these published amounts, I would have liked to know from you what agreements have been reached with the Länder, what agreement has been reached and what estimates you are planning for the future. I refer to the notifications of budgetary control, where EUR 825 million has been added to the corona commission. Have you taken into account an additional booster shot or what else is contained in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u104	Mrs Depoorter, what is the point of this commission of EUR 825 million? As far as RIZIV is concerned, it concerns mainly testing expenditure, triage in purchasing centres, protection measures for care providers, supervision of covid patients and a number of other measures. As regards the FPS Public Health, it concerns the purchase of test material for the federal testing platform, the purchase of covid medicines, the management of the strategic stock. As far as the Knowledge Centre is concerned, it concerns the funding of clinical studies related to COOVID-19. For Sciensano, it concerns the financing of various studies relating to COVID-19. You yourself mentioned it in your introductory remarks, how this commission will ultimately be used, will depend on the agreement we will make with each other on the distribution of the financial burden of the vaccination campaign and, in fact, on the testing in the future. This applies to us, but also to the Länder. I can be very brief about that. We have made proposals. The Länder have expressed their views. I assume that the financial burden of the vaccination campaign must be shared and that the 80-20 key we have used for a long time cannot be extended for the period after 30 November because the main responsibility is normally with the Länder and not with the federal government. But that is a point of discussion. On 20 April 2022, at the request of the IMC Public Health, a joint IKW Budget Public Health was organised on the cost distribution of the vaccination campaign after 30 November. This was a first introductory meeting. The positions of the various governments have been heard and discussed, but no agreement has yet been reached on them. I do think it is time to conclude such an agreement. But of course it cannot be assumed that the federal government will continue to finance 80% of what is actually the competence of the Länder. But we're looking for an agreement on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u105	Oops, you did it again!It is the third time, Minister, that you magic with corona money. The third time revenue or expenditure is entered in budgetary control without any agreement. I asked the Flemish Finance Minister this afternoon: "Are you aware? Is there an agreement?" No, there's no deal. But that's how you get your budget. You're registering 302 million euros. I'm sure they're from the states. You register another EUR 124 million, but you will also get it there. Surely you cannot enter amounts in your budget that you do not agree on? You can't budget like that, can you? I know, Minister, that the budget is not a priority for Vivaldi, nor a speciality of Vivaldi. But this defies any imagination, doesn't it? It is now the third time that I have asked such a question in committee, and you are doing the same again. Lukraak enlists some resources. You can't tell me there's an agreement right now. No, you've had a preliminary IKW, and "we'll look at it again." This is no way to deal with taxpayers' money. This is no way to budget. A budget, Minister, must be conclusive and, above all, based on facts. Here you are basing yourself on assumptions, on the goodwill of the Länder, which have always been very correct and willing so far, but I cannot call this a correct way of budgeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u106	Minister, the Emergency Medical Service started developing a new registration system called the Belgian Incident Tracking System in 2019. This integrated system would add value to the registration of affected persons during a disaster or other calamities. It is also one of the recommendations of the 2016 Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Terrorist Attacks. From April 2022 onwards, an attempt would be made to gradually roll out the system in Belgian hospitals in order to be able to work uniformly in the event of disasters, major accidents or crisis situations. That is why I have the following questions. Is every hospital willing to participate in the roll-out of the BITS? What happens to hospitals that don't have the right hardware to properly integrate the system? Do we have an overview of this? Has the Public Health Office worked out a timetable to roll out the system? Is this framework also followed by feedback from the site? Is training also provided to give everyone the knowledge of the new system? If so, when will these training courses start? What's the planning on this? Will the vehicles at the disposal of the emergency centres 112 and emergency medical care be fitted with tablets? How can the staff handle the BITS? Has there been any thought about cross-border incidents, since in the BITS only Belgian hospitals are mentioned for the regulation of victims? How will interregional cooperation proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u107	Mistress Gijbels, following the parliamentary investigation committee Terrorist Attacks, the department of emergency assistance of the FPS Public Health has indeed started developing the registration system Belgian Incident Tracking System of BITS. It serves, inter alia, to keep track of the precise trajectory of the victims in the event of a disaster. An important starting point in the project is that the medical aid provider should be able to take up his duties as an aid provider. In this context, emergency assistance vehicles are equipped with BITS wristbands, but not with additional tablets or other hardware. The key characters within the management of an incident, e.g. the medical director and his deputy, can consult the BITS application via the mobile application developed or via a web service via any device they have in their pocket and preconfigured. They can also scan the victim's wristbands through this application. The administrative registration tasks were entrusted to the Red Cross, as a privileged partner within the medical and psychosocial intervention plan. In the event of a disaster, the Red Cross will therefore provide the necessary staff and resources on the ground for registration in the BITS. In case of problems or lack of access or pre-configuration, care providers may also call on the Red Cross. The roll-out of Belgian hospitals with an approved emergency service started in April last year. As it has not always been easy to plan info sessions, training and test moments during the last covid period, the project has been delayed. By the end of this year, the system must be fully deployed in hospitals and ready for implementation in the event of incidents and disasters, at least as regards the prehospital medical and psychosocial care chain (discipline 2). Hospitals are offered an info session, an e-learning and testing environment and guided test moments, after which they are added to the BITS as an active user. In a first phase, this is a roll-out of the BITS without linking it to the hospital's own ICT system. Hospitals within the BITS application get a view of the upcoming flow of patients towards the emergency service and register the arrival of these patients in the BITS application. In a second phase, a link, a synapse, will be developed between the BITS and the hospital computer system. The purpose of this is that the two systems would feed each other with information. The synapse is developed in such a way that it is compatible with the wide variety of patient registration systems and also hardware that exist in Belgium. In principle, therefore, each hospital will be able to connect its system. The start of this development is foreseen for early 2023. During the roll-out of the BITS system there is a continuous interaction between the development team and the site. This enables the application and procedures to be continuously adjusted and improved. It also greatly increases the involvement of the people on the ground. Furthermore, developments within the BITS are constantly monitored by the working group within the FPS Public Health, in close cooperation with the Provincial Commission for Urgent Medical Assistance, where the hospitals are also represented, as well as by the Hospital Emergency Plan Working Group. Finally, evaluation times are also planned after each use of the BITS in an incident or exercise. As regards cross-border assistance, it is correct that by default only Belgian hospitals were included in the list of destinations, but the BITS provides for the possibility of adding foreign hospitals to the list, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u108	Minister, I believe that this system can represent considerable progress on the ground. I'm curious about the result and I'll follow up on its roll-out and see if those synapses with these different software and hardware systems will work smoothly. After all, we all know that it turned out to be problematic that there are so many different software and computer systems in the healthcare sector. That needs to be followed. I sincerely hope that the raft will be integrated and used. Hopefully not too much, of course, because we are not waiting for those incidents. I believe that these cross-border incidents should be considered proactively and that we should not wait for a cross-border disaster to happen. Then, of course, it is too late to implement such matters. I think that should be thought of anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u109	I tabled this question in response to an article in the Doctor's Newspaper of March this year, in which Mr Collin, Administrator-General of the RIZIV, was interviewed on the nomenclature review. For anatomology, nuclear medicine, molecular biology and genetics, the work would be in the final phase. Specifically about the funding of clinical biology, he indicates that additional study work was carried out. He makes the comparison with other countries and points out that clinical biology happens elsewhere often as an employed person, suggesting that the piste is also viewed here. What is your opinion on paid employment for clinical biologists? Is that, in your opinion, the path to be followed? What is your opinion on paid employment for other medical disciplines? In your opinion, this should be looked at by speciality and, if so, what are the criteria? What are the findings regarding nomenclature for anatomology, nuclear medicine, molecular biology, genetics and clinical biology? Is there any work on nomenclature reform for other disciplines, such as dentistry? We do not hear much about it yet, but, as you know, the nomenclature in dentistry is very outdated, because there are also problems of affordability.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u110	I think there is some confusion between two different issues, but I do not blame you for that. We are indeed in the process of reviewing the nomenclature for doctors, but that is quite different from the debate on whether doctors are employed or not. One of the aims of the nomenclature review is to correct unreasonable income differences between general practitioners and specialists. If unreasonable income differences are linked to the nomenclature, you can correct this by reviewing the nomenclature, but that does not mean anything about the distinction between paid employment and self-employment. Secondly, the revision of nomenclature should ensure that within the fees a distinction is made between fees intended to cover the provision by the doctor and fees covering the costs of carrying out those medical benefits which are not covered by other sources. The division of that duality into the fees today is an important objective that requires a lot of research. That nomenclature review is taking place in several stages. The first stage is a descriptive phase in which the definition of benefits in kind is reviewed, adjusted where necessary and restructured where necessary. In the first part of the second stage (2.1) a comparative comparative value scale for the professional part is developed, i.e. the own part of the various medical benefits for the doctors, based on the duration, complexity and risk of the medical certificate. In the second part of the second phase (2.2) the operating costs are mapped out. For clinical biology, phase 2.1, i.e. the comparative relative value scale for the professional part of the performance, has been entrusted to a specific working group of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds. In this context, a preliminary study has been carried out which has shown that clinical biologists are employed in a number of countries. I think Mr Benoît Collin referred to that. However, the question as to whether the purpose of the nomenclature review is to make doctors employed or not is of a different order. In any case, I could not anticipate that at all. You really need to make that distinction. The same goes for the other specialties you mentioned. You asked about the nomenclature review in anatomology, nuclear medicine, molecular biology, genetics and clinical biology. Within anatomal pathology, nuclear medicine, molecular biology and genetics, in the first phase, the nomenclature libellés were reviewed, but limited adjustments were considered necessary, because the structure of that nomenclature in these specialties is generally considered satisfactory. I can give you another example: the nomenclature of the radiotherapy sector will be reviewed much more thoroughly in relation to these dragonflies, because it is rather outdated. But there too there is no connection between that and a debate on paid employment or not. So far, the whole of the current research has indeed concentrated on the medical nomenclature. You are right: there is a lot to say about the fact that the nomenclature is obsolete in many other disciplines, and even other ones - but we have not yet started to do so and that is not yet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u111	I was also confused myself, because in an interview on the revision of the nomenclature, I did not expect people to talk about a concept as an employed person for doctors. That is why I was somewhat alarmed. It seemed as if it was an already acquired concept, which I really do not think is desirable. Health care has persisted in the corona crisis in this country, just because of the worklust and the drive of the doctors, who are just working a lot and hard. For our party, performance medicine remains part of medicine. You only have to look across borders, for example in the United Kingdom, to see that working as an employed person for a doctor is not always conducive to the quality of health care, and certainly not to the waiting lists. We really need to cherish and keep care entrepreneurship with us, because I believe that this contributes to the quality of medicine, to the desire to renew, to continue researching and to continue to train, to want to be the best. I don't think we want unity sausage. At the same time, I also believe that quality objectives can certainly be linked to them, including in order to prevent abuses. Nor should it stand in the way of interdisciplinary cooperation, but I suppose we will still have debates on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u112	Mr Bacquelaine apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u113	Mr President, Minister, in the absence of a professional agreement with the logopedists, many logopedists decide to raise their rates themselves. The professional association already called the alarm. Stefaan Lefevere of the professional association wrote in De Standaard of 8 April that four logopedists stop daily because it is no longer financially feasible. Given the long closures of the schools and the many interruptions caused by quarantines due to covid, logopedists have the hands full to assist children. Minister, when will you conclude a new professional agreement with the logopedists? What's the status of that file? How many logopedists are currently active? What immediate action can you take to prevent the price confusion that has now arisen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u114	Mr Minister, even without dyscalculie, the account is not correct. That was one of the slogans that we saw last Thursday at the protest meeting of various logopedists in Brussels. They came on the street against the high workload, underpayment and undervaluation. There were testimonies of logopedists who stopped their own practice because it is no longer feasible. According to the Flemish professional organisation, one in four logopedists quit their practice every month. A logopedist testified: Life is becoming more and more expensive for us. Every year I was hoping for a raise, but every year I have to look more and more at my savings. The costs are high and they are deducted from our wages: materials, testing, training days. We also visit schools, the fuel has become more expensive for everyone. On top of that also unpaid hours for billing, consultation and administration. I've been offered a job in a rehabilitation center with better working conditions." So the logopedists are pulling the alarm bell and asking for a solution. They want a convention with the RIZIV to honour the increase in fees of 5 euros per half hour. I have the following questions, Minister. Did you hear their protest? How come there's no new convention with the RIZIV yet? Do you agree that there is an agreement between the sickness funds and the logopedists to increase the fee to EUR 33.40? How many logopedists are active in our country? What is the status of the waiting lists for children who need speech therapy? How many children were using a logopedist in our country in 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u115	Colleagues, as regards the number of registered and actively declared logopedists at the RIZIV, by the end of 2019 there were 10,229, by the end of 2020 10,805 and by the end of 2021 11,442. There is therefore a relatively significant increase in the figures. With regard to the tariff or price confusion which concerns one of the authors, there is one good answer. If we want to give patients tariff security, a convention must be established between the trade association of the logopedists and the insurance organisations. Such a convention sets tariffs. The more logopedists join that convention, the more patients of logopedists can enjoy tariff security. I sincerely hope that a convention will be established. That is in everyone's interest. I received the professional associations of logopedists on 5 May. I said at that time that I understand that the budgetary objective set does not meet their expectations as regards the increase in the fees they would like. They want a very substantial increase in the fee. This is not at all within the agreed budgetary objective of the health budget. That doesn't fit in, it takes a lot more money. That money is not here today, although we are making a big investment. Over the years, a large investment has already taken place in the budget for speech therapy. When comparing the budgetary objective for 2022 with six years ago, there is an increase of more than 50% in nominal euros over six years. So that is a very important increase. I understand the fact that it is said that even this increase does not yet meet the expectations. However, it is a very important increase. My appeal to the professional associations is to see whether they can reach an agreement within that framework that they can submit to their members on the basis of which tariff security can be organised. I also told the professional organisations that if a convention is established, they will be able to benefit from a one-off, temporary but not insignificant extra injection of more than EUR 2 million in 2021, which will be added. This is an average increase of 1.4 % for all fees to compensate for the rapid rise in prices, but this additional injection really presupposes a convention. So the answer to the question of whether we can increase that budget even more is no, we cannot do that now. It would be frivolous to promise that and I am not a man of frivolous promises. How can we solve the price confusion? You can do that by concluding a convention. When a convention is concluded, there is a one-off, temporary extra injection of more than EUR 2 million on the table. That's not unimportant. I understand that this does not yet meet the expectations. I have therefore asked the representatives of the sector to sit together for the summer recess for a very thorough brainstorming session on how they see the future of the profession and what needs to be done for it. However, now that extra money is available, it is not going to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Mrs Merckx also said it, just because it is no longer financially sustainable, that many logopedists leave their profession. This creates waiting lists for other logopedists. This, of course, also affects the young people who just need this speech therapy, because they are the victims of a discussion that is taking place above their heads. The logopedists ask for an increase of about 5 euros per session of half an hour. These negotiations were launched in mid-December, while the agreement was due to expire at the end of December. I hope you keep your promise to listen to their longings this summer. We must also realise that the repeated closures of schools due to covid were not good for very much weaker children. Besides additional psychological assistance, speech therapy is much needed to get everyone involved. I have already asked you about this in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u117	Minister, you say there is no more money. A study has been published by Professor Crombez of Ghent University who says that there are 3 billion wrongly spent in health care. I think it is high time we went and got the money where it was wrongly spent. This efficiency exercise that we need means fighting overconsumption, but also focusing on more prevention. This can only be done if the whole of health care is transferred to the Communities and just that very important exercise remains in your drawer. Only that exercise can keep our health care affordable, there is no other solution. After the coalition agreement, we haven't heard from them. We are therefore wondering whether this is still being done or whether it will only be words.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u118	Minister, you made it clear in your reply that there is no money for this EUR 5 increase in the budgetary targets. However, you did not give us the amount of euro for example. I do not know whether you have made an estimate of this, but that answer would of course have been interesting for us. I don't know if you can tell us that anymore. You did not answer the question about the waiting lists either. You notice there's no money. After all, the envelope has already been decided. The budget has already increased by 50% over the last six years. However, there are also just a lot of pupils with problems, such as dyscalculie, dysthography and that's more. So a lot of students have a learning disadvantage and need help from logopedists. That's the problem today because those kids are in the cold. The EUR 5 that many are asking for is really insurmountable for many families who just need this kind of help. It's important to put the kids first. I therefore remain hungry as regards the question of how much euro you could actually give per session as well as the number of children waiting for speech therapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u119	Mrs Merckx, I can give you figures if you wish. Maybe that's useful. I will give you the figures by global budgetary objective. First of all, I will tell you that in 2016, six years ago, the budgetary objective was below EUR 100 million, EUR 99.6 million. Expenditure was also in that area, i.e. below the EUR 100 million limit. Those were the figures for 2016. In 2021, the objective was EUR 143.7 million. This is an increase of 44.1 percentage points over five years, in nominal euros. The pandemic hasn't put up much money. In 2021, 137.5 million was spent. By 2022, when I count the one-off extra injection available when a convention is concluded, the target goes to EUR 151 million. The 2022 target, rounded up 151 million, should be compared to the 2021 target. It was 143.7 million. Then you can see how important that is. About 7.4 million euros will be added. You can figure out what that means. That's not an insignificant increase. We really cannot say that this is a savings proposal, it is a significant increase. The logopedists I've met don't think that's enough. I understand that very well, but this does allow something for a convention. This does allow for increases in fees. We must seek agreement. Mrs Gijbels, yesterday I signed decisions abolishing unnecessary and obscure benefits in kind. We're shifting for tens of millions of euros every day. One day I'll give you a long list. So we're working on efficiency exercises, but the money doesn't fall from heaven. I do not think that is the starting point of the N-VA either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u120	Minister, I think it is clear that we want to eliminate overconsumption. CT scans are not only detrimental to the budget but also to health. So that's obvious. However, I am mainly talking about this other efficiency exercise, in particular the communitarisation of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u121	Thank you, Minister, for this additional information, which, of course, makes it more concrete. It's about 7 million. According to my figures, 5.6 million sessions were given in 2021. If it's a little more now, because the corona crisis is over, then there's about 1 euro available per session. We are talking about EUR 7 million for 5 million sessions, which amounts to about EUR 1 per session.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u122	Mrs Merckx, it is not quite clear to me what you mean. I'll just give you neutral numbers again. For the year 2021, the budget target was EUR 143.7 million, but the pandemic led to a much lower actual expenditure of EUR 137.5 million. The target for 2022 was first set at EUR 148.7 million, and we are now increasing it with this additional one-off increase to EUR 150.95 million, rounded up to EUR 151 million. Compared to the target of EUR 143.7 million, this is an increase of just over EUR 7 million. Compared to actual expenditure, at that time very inhibited by the pandemic, but hopefully not so inhibited anymore, it really is an important increase, namely EUR 13 million. Then we are actually talking about an increase of 10%. I also know that prices are rising in the meantime, which worries us all, and I also know that expectations are higher. However, I find it difficult to believe the view that, in times of a socio-economic crisis, there can be no agreement on a budgetary option that is increasing to that extent. I therefore ask the organisations to seek an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u123	Minister, if we charge EUR 28 per session, 5.4 million sessions can be held with the budget you have provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u124	Mrs Merckx, I am not assuming that it must be EUR 28 per se. One has to see what one can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u125	Minister, I understand that they did not fully function in 2021. However, an increase in both the rate and number of sessions in a closed envelope makes no sense in some sense. The first victims of this are those children who do not receive a speech therapy today or whose parents are asked to pay EUR 5. A lot of children will not get a speech therapy and become more learning retarded. That's an effective emergency. You may have to think about other budgetary objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u126	That's not gonna happen. I cannot understand why the professional organisations are unable to make an agreement from a budget that rises to EUR 151 million, which is a significant increase, where it was less than EUR 100 million 6 years ago. I understand it doesn't meet the expectations. We also need a more fundamental discussion about the sector, and I fully agree with that. However, an agreement should now be reached. That's their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u127	If those logo pedists come out on the street, there's a reason for that. As a minister, you should listen to that and perhaps reconsider your plans. You need to consider whether the budget that is foreseen may not effectively meet all the costs, and the increase in the prices of the logopedists and, above all, the needs of all those children who are waiting for logopedic help today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u128	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot's 55026923C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u129	Minister, the Federal Test Platform was set up in the covid crisis for the analysis of PCR tests to detect the coronavirus. Whether it has ever been necessary or not, we have already done so, but it is time to analyse whether the testing platform is an added value today and whether the costs are justified. After all, the eight federal labs receive a lump sum of EUR 270,000 per month for the analysis of up to 750 tests per day, which means an expenditure of EUR 2.16 million per month. If they have to do more than 750 tests a day, they will be reimbursed in addition. When we look at the figures of Sciensano, the number of tests carried out by the Federal Test Platform seems to be very low nowadays. The total number of PCR tests has also fallen sharply, of course thanks to the rapid antigen tests, which can be carried out either at home or in the pharmacy. These rapid tests are reliable and also a lot cheaper for society. I have the following questions, Minister. How many tests has each federal lab conducted in the last few weeks and months? Which labs have passed the 750 tests a day and they're still gonna make it? In other words, how much has been overfinanced over the last three months? Do you think the existence of the Federal Test Platform is still useful at the moment? Was that discussed with the regular sector? Can the sector handle the number of tests? In what way do you plan the phasing-out and the cessation of funding of the Federal Test Platform? What do you think is the indication of an PCR test today? What is the role of the GP in this? Is it not up to the GP to determine whether a PCR test makes sense or whether a rapid antigen test can be sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u130	Mrs Gijbels, I will give a rather comprehensive answer, but I think this is necessary. The agreement between the RIZIV and the laboratories of the Federal Platform COVID Testing was concluded for a period of 24 months and expires in October 2022. The labs were initially asked to run up to 7,000 tests per day and per lab, i.e. a total capacity of 56,000 tests per day. In addition to a one-off start fee, they received a monthly fixed fee of 12 euros per test for an average of 2,000 tests per lab per day and a monthly variable fee based on the number of tests carried out. The fixed fee was reduced from 1 October 2021 to a daily average of 750 tests. This number was consistent with the actual number of tests carried out. You will remember our discussions about this. In view of the evolution of the pandemic and the changing test guidelines, we find that the number of tests actually performed continues to decrease. For the period November 2021-January 2022, on average, the minimum of 750 tests per lab per day was reached for all 8 labs of the Federal Platform. In February 2022 we noticed a decrease. For only half of the labs, the minimum of 750 tests per day per lab was reached. The decline continued in March. Only one site was above the minimum of 750 tests per lab per day. The labs of the Federal Platform are currently analysing samples of 38 test and triage centres spread across Belgium and are also used for cluster research and screenings. To this end, a number of partners have also set up mobile test teams, in particular UZ Leuven, UZ Antwerpen and UZ Gent. Given the evolution of the pandemic and the test guidelines that we agree on in the IMC, for example, the no longer testing of high risk contacts, the more self-tests and RAT in symptomatic individuals, the test centres are still being used very little today and a significant proportion will close in the coming weeks and months. In addition, the partners of the Federal Platform today are also crucial in detecting variants, especially variants or groups, and for performing genome analyses. All these labs are part of a larger consortium of 13 labs. The majority of genome analyses are performed in the framework of baseline surveillance, for which the samples of the Federal Platform are of great importance since they include a geographically wide area through the 38 test and triage centres, as well as a homogeneous set of infections and samples. The Risk Management Group presented a new model of test directive based on the parameters that are also used for the coronabarometer, namely the three levels, and depending on the characteristics of the circulating variant, which then was an additional dimension of this "barometer for the test strategies. This model should provide a simpler and more predictable guideline for the test guidelines. These guidelines also focus more on self-tests and RAT. The full testing and tracing scenario that we have applied in the past infection waves, in which PCR tests were mainly used, will only be re-used in a limited number of those scenarios. That's the background, Mrs. Gijbels. If we link these elements to the expected evolution of the maximum number of tests that would be needed on peak days, an estimated 75,000 to 85,000, it is clear that the minimum required capacity for the Federal Platform can now be reduced. Several options have been examined, ranging from the full closure of the partial closure to the reduction of capacity and basic funding. Everything has been considered. On that basis, it was decided to keep all 8 platforms open but to reduce the guaranteed funding to 200 tests per day from 1 April, asking the laboratories of the Federal Platform to ensure together a capacity of 20,000 tests per day, in order to respond to sudden impacts. In addition, as from 1 July 2022, a condition shall be added to the remuneration for the provision of capacity. The laboratories of the Federal Platform should also be able to ensure a steel collection capacity through organised or collaborative mobile teams and test centres. Here, the guaranteed scalable capacity must correspond to the insured analysis capacity of the labs. The monthly fixed fee is therefore further reduced from 270,000 euros to 72,000 euros per site. This monthly fee corresponds to the estimated minimum personnel costs to allow the Platform to function, including in the case of a lower analysis of samples. This is therefore an important cost reduction, but we are still trying to make the most of the investments already made in this Platform in terms of guaranteeing test capacity and steel extraction capacity. In the laboratories outside the Federal Platform, capacity monitoring continues on the basis of a dashboard. However, there are no guarantees here that minimum analysis or steel extraction capacity will be guaranteed. As far as your questions on the current test indications are concerned, I refer to the RMG guidelines mentioned above, which provide a clear framework. I won't repeat that now. In an evolution as we see it now, less is tested via PCR, mainly symptomatic individuals will be tested and the general practitioners, and the doctors in general, will again have a more important role in prescribing the tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u131	Minister, we have already had a difference of opinion on this matter. [[According to the]] N-VA fraction is that Federal Test Platform was never necessary. We said from the start that the labs could handle it. You claimed otherwise. Accepted that extra costs had to be incurred at some point, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u132	I'm surprised you stick with the fact that it never was necessary. Play the movie again without that federal system!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u133	One could have scaled up the existing labs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u134	They said they couldn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u135	I have received other information about this. You say that the labs are now being turned on to test the variants. I think that's a problem. The Federal Test Platform is now assigned a different function, probably because otherwise it has too little work to do, but at the same time the experience gained during such a crisis is removed from the other labs. It is important that that experience is maintained and anchored in the classical network, that it can be used again if necessary. It's just that a lot of money has been thrown away. You didn't answer my question to what extent those eight labs were overfinanced? They've been getting far too long for the limited number of tests they've done. What was that money used for? Nor have I received an answer to this question. It was also indicated earlier by the labs themselves that the money did not go to the labs. You indicate that there were a number of options: close them all, close some or keep them all open. Then you choose to keep them all open. I really don't understand that. That's a waste of millions, isn't it? You just said there's not enough money in the medical sector. Apparently, money is thrown on the other side. You have to explain to me what the logic of that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u136	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55026944C by Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u137	Mr President, I have just asked this question in a different form.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u138	Actually, yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u139	Then we consider this question to be already answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u140	Mrs Gijbels claims that her question is actually the same question and withdraws it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u141	Mr Minister, we have read the same study and we have therefore tabled the same question. On 14 April, the British COVID-19 Vaccine Surveillance Report was published by the British government. Based on the conclusions of the report, it can be said that a covid vaccine is taken to reduce the risk of serious disease. That's how we heard about Sciensano yesterday. However, it is less important for people in the area. On page 4 of the report, the government states: "Omicron variant starts at 45 to 50% then drops to almost no effect from 25 weeks after the second dose." With 2 doses of Pfizer or Moderna effectiveness dropped from around 65 to 70% down to around 15% by 25 weeks after the second dose. Two to 4 weeks after a booster dose of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine following an AstraZeneca …" You know it, Minister, this immunity goes down when a combination of AstraZeneca and Pfizer has been given. We are talking about vaccination effectiveness, which we are going to consider rather low in transmission, as well as immunity. Minister, yesterday we had the technical session of Sciensano. There the same was displayed as what the British government published in the study I quote. What interpretation do you give to these figures from the British government and to Sciensano? What impact does this definition have on the CST policy pursued?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u142	I am not going to go into more detail about the reference to the British study. I think it can be added to a series of findings. In other words, the effectiveness of the vaccines we have used so far is indeed more limited in the omicron variant than in the previous variants. Protection with respect to infection and mild symptoms appears to decline more rapidly, but with a booster their effectiveness with respect to severe COOVID-19 and mortality is still very high. The risk of hospitalisation and intake of intensive care is, according to the latest data, 67 % and 53 % lower in people aged 65 and over after a booster dose, respectively, compared to people of the same age group after complete vaccination without booster dose. In terms of hospitalization and intensive care, this has a very beneficial effect. I don't think you're fighting that either. The first message is that these vaccines are still very useful. Their effectiveness in this respect is not actually falling, as far as we know. Another issue is the effect on the infection itself, mild symptoms and infectiousness. That's where your discussion about the CST starts. I absolutely do not agree with the speed with which you draw conclusions. I will make my argument partly empirical and partly theoretical. I think it's a very important theory. There are two arguments for the CST or its variants. I think they're both valid. I don't expect you to agree with me. One argument is that when a government takes a strong decision, namely that people have to use such an instrument at some point when, for example, they go to restaurants or pubs or come together in large public infrastructures, more people will be vaccinated. So they're doing some sort of nudging. You can be for or against that decision. I'll leave that in the middle. However, Empirical about this is a lot of material that proves that such a measure works. A study by TU Delft shows that in most of the countries studied, namely Denmark, France, Israel, Italy and Switzerland, vaccination rates increased from 20 days before the introduction of the CST to about 40 days after its introduction. That's an empirical fact. I have already indicated that this is not easily verifiable in Belgium, because we have introduced the CST very gradually and in my opinion too hesitantly. We should have made a strong and clear decision. In that case, we would probably have seen that obvious effect. So we see this effect in countries where this measure has been implemented. That is a first dimension of the debate. You can be against and argue that the obvious effect may be there, but that you do not like that kind of politics. It's possible. I suppose, however, that you are more concerned with the second dimension, which you are bringing into the debate. That is the question of whether people are being protected as well as whether health care is being protected, by demanding the CST for certain types of activity, or whether that CST is actually not security. For me, the answer to that question is, from a theoretical point of view, 'yes'. The question is to what extent and also whether that CST is the only security and when that CST is a security. However, the reason why the answer is undoubtedly 'yes' is the following. You do not have to react immediately, but I would simply ask you to think about it and come back to it later. Imagine groups of people coming together in closed spaces, causing contamination. Let us assume that they come together in a particular context, without asking for the CST and that the same groups of people come together and the CST is asked. Let us assume that it is very essential that these people's behaviour does not change and that they do not start to behave more risky after the CST has been demanded as an access ticket. If one brings together a group of people who have either tested themselves negative, or has already been immune, or has been vaccinated, which reduces risks especially on hospitalization, but also on infection and infection, and asks them for a CST, then it is obvious that a certain virus circulation will have less impact in terms of serious illness and hospitalization. It's obvious, isn't it? The question is to what extent this is happening. That depends on the efficacy of the vaccines and the circulation of the virus. So if there's little virus circulating, then it doesn't make much difference. If there is a lot of virus circulating, and the tests and vaccines are of good quality, then one makes a lot of difference. So everything depends on the circulation of the virus, the quality of the vaccines and the quality of the tests. The mistake we have made in introducing the Covid Safe Ticket is that we have given the impression that this is an absolute safety. This, of course, also encourages people to behave much looser. When they come together in a CST context, they lose part of the advantage. That's like a patient who takes statins and then thinks he can eat fries with mayonnaise every day. Does that statin prove to be a bad drug in this case? No. But it shouldn't be an excuse to eat unhealthy or not move anymore. That was our problem. So we have to do more than just the CST, if we really want to ensure safety. People should not be given the impression that CST would allow them to take risks that they would not otherwise take. But it is obvious that this must be effective. The extent to which it depends on the circulation of the virus. There are very good reasons to say in the current context that the CST will not make much difference and therefore it is better not to ask. It is indeed annoying thing. But if one is dealing with a very serious pandemic with a huge virus circulation and one wants to intervene quickly, but let the hospitality life continue, then that is one element of security alongside others. That's obvious to me. The extent to which these elements of security need to be weighed is an empirical issue, to be assessed depending on the state of the epidemic. For this reason, I think that an instrument such as the CST should not be brought to the container park, but carefully placed in the slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u143	Minister, there are some errors in your reasoning and you have actually indicated them yourself. The first mistake is that you say that more people are being vaccinated and that it is difficult to check it in Belgium. However, it is not difficult. In Flanders, at the time the CST was introduced, as many people were vaccinated as in France after the course of the vaccination obligation. In France, 62 % of vaccinees were started, while we had already reached a vaccination rate of 80 % when you started. So people who were convinced had already been vaccinated. The Flemish government's call for vaccination had already been issued. The discussion we had was about Wallonia and Brussels, but there too we see that there is an insufficient difference. So the CST did not do what you and your colleagues expected it to do. Secondly, you put data together with and without CST, assuming that people will not behave differently. You admit your mistake, even if you say "our" error, but I remember my party chairman saying from the beginning that it gave a false sense of security. Indeed, that sense of security is the message you have brought to the people. People felt protected by the CST and behaved differently. We can all imagine situations that we as scientists knew could not end well when people showed a pass and then did not have to follow any more precautions. At one point, you're right. When there is an increased virus circulation, we must give people the message that they must be careful, even if they have been vaccinated. After all, the main reason for vaccination is not to get sick and to be hospitalized, and there is a very small effect on transmission. Minister, you are completely wrong to stick to the CST and to the idea that this will now prevent us all from getting sick. A second case that you are not referring to, and which we also saw yesterday in the Sciensano study, is hybrid immunity. In your CST you don't even take that into account. Many healthcare providers have said at some point that they had been vaccinated once and X had become ill several times and would no longer participate and would not be vaccinated. They do not have CST, but are still better protected than the people who have a valid CST. You took your time to explain the whole thing. The fact that you need a lot of time to do so says everything. It's not clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u144	That says something about the audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u145	That says something about the audience? I don't think so. It's not clear. You're wrong. The CST is not what you thought at the beginning of the crisis and the vaccination campaign would stop the transmission. Actually, it's allowed in the trash can and not in the slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u146	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55026946C by Mrs Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u147	That's actually a dated question. In the meantime, the decision was taken to take into account the price increase for multi-family homes. The question is therefore without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic786x.u148	The question is therefore withdrawn.
