ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u1	Madam Minister, in your policy paper, you have rightly paid attention to optimising the reserve framework and, at least in your policy vision, you have given it priority. That is why I would like to know how far that is at the moment. Not only the recruitment of active professional soldiers is essential for the survival of a performant army, but also the reserve framework needs to be thoroughly developed and modernised. A number of problems, especially of a practical nature, need to be resolved. Many reservists have problems with, for example, access to the barracks, but there are also problems with compensation. We have also mentioned this in the past and you said that you would take action on this, hence my questions. What is the state of play regarding the development of our reserve framework? What has been the growth since the beginning of the legislature? What specific initiatives have you taken recently to strengthen and modernise our reserve framework? How and when will you solve the reward problems of the reservists? To this end, will you amend the legislation of 16 May 2001 on the status of the military in the reserve framework? If so, in what way and within what timeframe?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u2	Mr President, Article 77 of the Law of 16 May 2001, which lays down the status of the reserve framework, requires the administration of the government to allow the military to be engaged in the reserve framework for the performance of military services. Such leave may not be deducted from the leave to which those interested parties are normally entitled. However, I see just as you do that boards do not always grant the necessary leave, so that some reservists cannot perform the performance. I have therefore asked the Defence Staff to examine a solution to this problem. The time path will be determined according to the worked out option. In addition, some relaxation of the status of the reserve is already provided for, including the recruitment and formation of the military of the reserve framework. A number of contacts have already taken place with the business community. They will soon form part of a convention between the partners concerned. Recruitment is growing steadily each year, as well as possible forms of recruitment. On the other hand, as in the case of the active framework, the reserve framework has an important annual outflow of reserve holders leaving on permanent leave. In addition to the classic reserveists, Defense also offers students the opportunity to follow a training course and perform at Defense during their studies as a reservist. There are also open applications for new reservists. At the beginning of the legislature, Defence counted 5.605 reservists: 2,181 in the trained reserve and 3,424 in the untrained reserve. At present, there are 5,951 reserveists: 2,704 in the trained reserve and 3,247 in the untrained reserve. Defence also organises an annual day of reserve to give interested parties the opportunity to obtain information about what a career as a reservist has to offer. In its information and recruitment campaigns, Defense promotes the possibilities as a reservist and participates in, for example, reports, as recently for the RTBF. In addition, there are proposals to make the status of the reserve even more flexible and attractive. Since 1 January 2021, reservists have been rewarded at the same level as the military of the active framework, with equivalent conditions in proportion to their performance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for listing the initiatives taken. I notice a slight improvement in the number of reservists, with the emphasis on light. There is still a great deal of room for improvement in this area. Allow me to say that the investigation carried out by the Defence Staff in connection with the granting of leave is still taking a long time. We raised this issue in committee two years ago, and even then it was very urgent to make the status of reserveist more attractive and more flexible. The facts speak for themselves in this respect. You have remained very shallow about the contacts with the business world. I hope that they will be deepened further, because, as mentioned earlier in the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology, there is much to gain from the cooperation that Dutch defence has with industry. There is much more exchange between industry and defence, and we can learn a lot from that. As far as my group is concerned, your explanation of contacts with the business community remains too superficial. We really need to step up our efforts to make the reserve status more attractive, because that is crucial for the defence sector at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u4	Mr President, Minister, everything related to climate warming and energy is also very important for the defence sector. Last week, a new report was published in France on how Defence prepares for global warming there, both in relation to conflicts abroad and to its own defence. On the other hand, there is also this strategic autonomy in energy. The conflict in Ukraine shows the European vulnerability more than ever. The government's energy agreement of 18 March announced a substantial package of additional investments in renewable energy, including in the defence sector. Those investments in the radar system continue to interest me. I come from a region that has in the past been severely hampered by those old radar systems in the implementation of windmills. Is there any improvement in that respect? Or does that have to do with the radars already ordered? The energy agreement talks about speeding up the implementation of solar panels on government buildings. Are there any DOD buildings there?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u5	Mr President, EUR 14.7 million was paid for 104.2 gigawattuur electricity in 2020 and EUR 3 million was paid for 114 gigawattuur natural gas. In 2021, EUR 13.6 million was paid for 99.7 gigawattuur electricity and EUR 3.1 million was paid for 95.2 gigawattuur natural gas. The extra cost for energy is estimated at EUR 18 million. The electricity supply contract provides for the supply of 100 % of European green electricity. In addition, the Ministry of Defence has started the construction of photovoltaic solar parks, with the most important realizations at this time a PV plant with a capacity of 500 kilowatts at Saffranberg and a installation of 23 kilowatts at Melsbroek. The installation in Saffronberg produced about 450 megawatts in 2021. The one in Melsbroek was only put into service and at the moment there are no production data. This year, the quarters Grobendonk and Castle will be equipped with a PV installation. From 2023 the other military quarters follow. Defence uses the standard supply contracts offered by Belgian suppliers for energy supply. There are currently no concrete projects for the installation of wind turbines in the military domain. Defense provides for the installation of solar panels for all its quarters. A feasibility study examines which roofs are structurally in order and suitable for the installation of solar panels per quarter of an hour. In Defence's energy policy, we are trying to move away from fossil fuels. Techniques such as heat recovery and heat pumps are introduced in new construction projects and in the case of thorough renovations. Furthermore, there is a project in Ostend, where the quarter of Boatsman Jonsen will be connected to a civil heat grid using residual heat from the end of 2022, thus reducing CO2 emissions for the heating of that quarter of an hour to almost zero. Defence itself does not create energy communities, but makes it possible for energy-cooperatives to be responsible for the installation of PV installations in its domains. The first feasibility study for this is in progress today in the quarter of Grobendonk and the implementation is planned for the end of 2022. With regard to the installation of windmills, Defence is currently in dialogue with Skeyes to identify where possible short-term land-use gains can be achieved through the use of new technology on radars. In general, I consider sustainability to be an important principle, including for the future of defence. I would remind you of principle 7, one of the 10 principles around which the STAR plan is built, and I quote: 'Defension is committed to significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its military activities and installations, without, however, compromising the safety of personnel or operational efficiency. The modernisation and development of defence infrastructures will respect current standards of safety and well-being at work. This will be accompanied by an ambitious plan to achieve a CO2-neutral and sustainable real estate portfolio of Defence by 2040, including through innovative financing methods for the development and renovation of defence infrastructure. In purchasing equipment, sustainability is systematically considered, whether and how negative impacts on climate and environment can be reduced, in line with federal procurement policies. Defence will continue its action to protect and improve the biodiversity of its sites, in line with the national biodiversity strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u6	Mrs. Buyst is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u7	Madam Secretary, the investments you mention are, in my view, good investments. The starting points are also right. I would like to quote two more elements. Firstly, you are talking about cooperation with energy cooperatives. That is indeed very important. Energy communities will be the perfect way to generate energy in our country in the future. Principles such as sun parts become possible. It's a good thing the DOD shows himself to be a partner in that. The company Ecopower supplies very cheap power today, but needs to put a stop to its customers, as no additional installations for wind or solar energy can be installed. That's very bad to read. The first projects in Grubbendonk are therefore good. A second element I would like to mention is the radar installations. I remember the wind plan in Limburg more than ten years ago. On that plan there was a huge red spot, around Kleine-Brogel, of course, because there was very little possible in terms of installations. Well, I have the feeling that we are not yet far enough away from that, so I really hope that the consultation will be successful. It is a great pity that some investments today, because of old technology, cannot continue. I'm asking you to bet on that with skeyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u8	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I would like to address the issue of the smallest component of our Defence, the Medical Component that sometimes "suffers" because it comes at the end of the line in terms of equipment and personnel, which is probably a major concern; and it would certainly take more than just a question to address this issue of military medicine. The other subject dealt with the Royal Military Hospital, long and often regarded as the flagship of the Belgian hospital system. At times he was being privatized and others were being considered for other functions, such as the reception of the Petit-Château refugees. All this was abandoned and a whole series of services were finally installed on the Neder-Over-Heembeek site. If the agreement is still under way, the Royal Military Hospital was included in an agreement with the hospitals of the bicommunal IRIS network in the capital. That being said, today we want to discuss again the future of this military hospital. The main lines are known, you have announced them. Nevertheless, many questions arise as to the direction in which this redeployment will proceed. It is true that the Medical Component is important. Madam Minister, in medical terms, is there a European concertation? We often deploy our own medical means when we can pool them. We undoubtedly have a problem with the recruitment of doctors and medical personnel. How can this problem be addressed if it is not by pooling resources, trying to work with other European countries to avoid juxtaposition of emergency services in cantonments abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on 20 April we held an actua debate in the Committee on Health on the care of Ukrainian refugees. Minister Vandenbroucke then replied that the Minister of Defence, you, was in the process of studying the future dimensioning of the Military Hospital in Lower-Over-Heembeek. That study would be about a collaboration between the Cabinets of Defence and Public Health. This research would show what the future capabilities of our Military Hospital are, and therefore what functions we can still use for. You will be happy to answer the following questions. What subjects does this study cover? What is the state of this study? Which researchers, from which scientific institution, are carrying out this study? Can you describe the subject matter, the methodology, and the preliminary conclusions? Of course, I also ask the classic question about costs. I'm guessing you'd expect it. Then I also have a "what-if question." I know you don't like to answer that, but I'll ask them anyway. If the Military Hospital were to turn out to be a little underperformance in the future, would additional investments be linked to this to boost performance? If so, how will you cover that budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am sorry that I arrived later, but I had to go to the hospital first. The sick person was still in the bathtub and was not ready to be visited. Which makes me a little late, which I apologize for. Madam Secretary, the Military Hospital will be transformed into a medical hub by 2030, which is a crisis and disaster response hospital. A consultancy contract would be awarded in mid-December 2021. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions for you. Who was awarded the contract to? At what end date was it awarded and at what cost? What's the order of the screening? What aspects should be considered or examined? Who's gonna be involved in the screening? Which partners should surely be heard for a balanced study? Madam Secretary, how and by when do you expect to be able to incorporate the results into a new action plan for the Military Hospital? Finally, have resources already been provided within the STAR plan to achieve the ambitions in this area, or is the dossier still excluded from that plan and is it part of a later update? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u11	Mr President, honourable Members, the medical hub must meet the needs of medical-military support within the context of the 2030 level of ambition of Defence. The medical hub consists of three pillars: a military hospital, a training, training and simulation centre, and a pharmaceutical and medicologistic capacity. The medical hub also aims to be a centre of knowledge in addition to offering the possibility of a crisis hospital. These objectives should be achieved through extensive digitization, the maintenance and expansion of partnerships, and sustainable collaborations with national and international stakeholders. The sum of the capacities of the medical hub contributes to the crisis response, both through training and logistical support as well as through the provision of care. Without the STAR plan and with unchanged ambition, we would have gone towards a de facto impossibility of using the medical hub as a crisis hospital. Discussions are currently under way with various potential partners in order to identify potential opportunities depending on the different niches envisaged and the interest of hospital partners in the care activities of the locoregional and supraregional hospital networks. In the context of the specific role in the event of a crisis, it is envisaged, inter alia, to have a sleeping capacity, a space for the reception of injured persons able to move, a morgue, a reception capacity for the psychological care of victims, a CBRN medical team, a crisis preparedness and response cell and various multi-purpose spaces suitable for the type of incident. The composition of this capability is based on Defence's own needs, but could also be used in support of the nation in response to a crisis. In this regard, the Medical Component, which had to undergo the "deficiency" logic required by the 2016 Strategic Vision, has demonstrated, if necessary, its importance in managing the covid crisis. In addition, in order to maintain the missions entrusted to the Medical Component, and in particular to the Queen Astrid Military Hospital, a transition plan is being developed. Until the medical hub is put into service, this plan aims to ensure the continuity of care and safety of our patients, relying in particular on the upgrading of the infrastructure and the life cycle of the medical equipment. Currently, the Medical Component has 1,340 persons in its entirety. Capacity requirements in terms of medical component personnel are based on the level of operational ambition of the other components. At the operational module level, the component now has only one third of the planned deployable physicians, as well as a limited number of nurses and other medical and paramedical personnel, but we are rebuilding, both there and elsewhere. It is in this context, in particular, that the first POP plan emerged from the STAR plan, which aims in particular, in the short term, to consolidate and subsequently strengthen the staffing envelope which must indeed undergo a phase of growth. Everyone knows that this requires a specific and significant effort in the short term and that the Medical Component is closely associated with it. The consultancy assignment, which has been running since 14 March 2022, is carried out by the consortium Bopro, Antares, B2Ai architects, Ingeniom and Xirius. The final report is expected in autumn 2022. The cost is 312,680 euros. The purpose of the consultancy mission is to obtain a technical and financial preliminary study for the construction of a new central medical infrastructure on the site of Defense in Lower-Over-Heembeek. A well-founded and detailed final report should provide advice on the funding possibilities, the licensing obligations of the project, the best possible procurement procedure and possible partnerships. The aspects included in the study are the acquisition procedure, the possibilities for master planning, an analysis of the current need expression, the funding possibilities, the licensing obligation and the rules to be followed, the variants of the current need expression and an overall assessment to ensure that the next phase is as efficient and effective as possible. The study provides for the consultation of several partners and services, including the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, the FPS Justice, the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Home Affairs, the National Crisis Centre, the National Institute for Disease and Disability Insurance, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products and various possible hospital and industrial partners. At present only the phase analysis of the data has been completed. The next phase concerns the master plan. The STAR plan, of course, included the Medical Hub 2030 project.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u12	Madam Minister, you have inherited a famous construction site! I hope that it will be completed within a reasonable time. The issue of concern concerns the figures: one third of doctors available (also teams). I believe that there is an urgent need for Belgium to be recognised both internationally and nationally. At the European level, a reflection must be initiated in order to address the issue of military medicine. You could introduce him to your European colleagues. The aim is to avoid privatizations that would be detrimental to our staff and the purpose pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u13	Madam Minister, your fellow Minister Vandenbroucke was rather cryptic about that study in the Committee on Health, so I thank you for your explanation of the study. We must not neglect the Military Hospital when it comes to future and investment, especially in the light of the past health crisis and the fact that you yourself are not at present able to identify the capacity as sufficient for the reception of wounded Ukrainian refugees, for example. We all agree that the Military Hospital must be adequately equipped. There will be little or no debate on this. This study can certainly be useful in this respect. If I understand correctly, only the analysis phase is ready for the time being, but I look forward to the final report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u14	Madam Secretary, it is about EUR 312 000. The study is carried out by Deloitte? You're saying that only a third of the doctors and nurses are there, that there are actually huge gaps. It shows that there is a real malaise. The number 1 and 2 of the hospital have not been present for a long time. That is an illustration of the fact that things are not going very well there. You say that the intention of your plan is to get that back in place by 2030. I hope so, but I think it is already quite an ambition to keep that third. These are not all young people. There's also a part that's retiring. Complementing two thirds in 8 years, by 2030, doctors and nurses, knowing that there are already huge deficits in the bourgeoisie at the moment, is an ambition, but whether it is realistic is the question. I hope so for you, but I don't think it will be obvious. We shall await that study. We will certainly continue to discuss this in the Chamber. We will then look at how things are going with that centre. I have also tabled written questions about the integration into that medical umbrella organisation, together with the Brugmann Hospital in Brussels, if I am not mistaken, and about the exact situation of the burn centre, but I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u15	Madam Minister, in Versailles, EU leaders announced their intention to invest more and better in defence capabilities and innovative technologies. The current geopolitical situation, according to the final declaration, a tectonic shift in European history, has electrified the debate on the security architecture, which has allowed a number of files to be smoothed without too much contradiction, including the file on the Strategic Compass, a European Intervention Force of 5,000 men, which Belgium co-approved. What are the geographical, political and military parameters in which our country now sees this European intervention force operating? A ready-made intervention force requires 24 hours at 24 and 7 days at 7 standby troops and means. That additional assignment will take account of the capacity problems that the DOD already knows. Is participation already taken into account in your STAR plan or does it require a further update? How many units and financial contributions does our country want to commit to the maximum? What is the government's position regarding the financing of such an intervention force? Does it want to finance this through Europe or does it want a contribution from the participating Member States? Rapid deployment of 5,000 men at European level, especially outside the Union's borders, will not go through the current decision-making process in the Council. Now that the deployment of EU Rapid Deployment Capacity is no longer far away by 2025, do you agree to specify how Article 44 will be operationalised only by 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u16	Mr President, I shall reply at the same time to Mr Lacroix, his question being an enclosed question. The current geographical and security situation, illustrated in particular by the evacuation crisis in Afghanistan and the Russian invasion in Ukraine, requires more than ever to increase our European capabilities in the field of security and defence and to give priority to their use in interoperability with our partners. The European strategic thinking called Strategic Compass was adopted by the Council of Foreign and Defence Ministers on 21 March and was subsequently endorsed by the European Council on 24 March. This important document aims to clarify and update the EU's role in the field of security and defence, in particular in the four areas of operational engagement, resilience, capabilities and partnerships. The implementation of the Strategic Compass will have several defence implications in the four areas discussed. In the operational field, the aim will be to develop a European rapid deployment capability and an adequate command structure. In addition, the EU will need to develop advanced planning capacity, possible commitments, or ensure that military mobility is enhanced. This is compounded by joint exercises, the strengthening of civilian and military missions, the implementation of the European Peace Facility and the strengthening of intelligence capabilities. As part of the protection of the EU and its citizens, Member States have decided to strengthen cyber defence capabilities, develop a toolbox to counter hybrid threats, and put in place a European space strategy geared towards security and defence. With regard to national capabilities, it is clear that Defence will have to build the necessary capabilities to act in concert with our partners, if possible, but also alone if necessary. Defence will therefore actively contribute to a comprehensive, structured and efficient implementation of the objectives of the strategic compass at the national level. The Rapid Deployment Capacity will be an essential part of the European tools for operational implementation of its political objectives to complete tasks described under Article 43 of the European Treaty. The use of this European intervention force will continue to be subject to the provisions of the EU Treaties and to the strategies and decision-making processes of the European Union. In that intergovernmental policy area, Member States shall define the tasks and tasks to be carried out within the framework of Article 43 and under the EU flag either through the Rapid Deployment Capacity or through another instrument. The STAR plan provides for investments in new and additional capacities. The updating of the programme law includes the various investment dimensions. This update takes account of the department's priorities. Defence will contribute to the implementation of the European intervention force in a fair and ad hoc manner. In 2024, the participation of a company in an EU battle group was foreseen. The battle groups will form the basis for the EU's Rapid Deployment Capacity. Military missions and missions of the EU are already partly funded by the Member States. With regard to the Rapid Deployment Capacity, it is hoped that this will be extended to include partial financing of exercises, but this needs to be discussed further. A decision for an operational deployment is always taken by a Council decision. There are already procedures in place to speed up this process. Recent history also shows that the EU can react quickly in crisis conditions. The strategic compass also provides an optimization of the political decision-making process, including through the preparation and discussion of operational deployment scenarios. Article 44 of the EU Treaty is a specific case in which a group of Member States may carry out an EU mandate under the Council's authorisation. The operationalisation of that Article and its modalities need to be further refined among the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u17	Madam Secretary, I have nothing against the creation of a European strategic compass around Defence. The Prime Minister made a number of statements today or yesterday when he visited Germany on European defence, which he sees as one of the three priorities. He also made statements about the 2%. The fact that there is more European cooperation on defence is an obvious fact, there is no problem at all. However, to what extent should there be consensus on the use of intervention forces? To what extent are Belgian troops deployed in them sent by consensus by council decision or by article 44? That debate has been held several times here on the basis of a resolution by Mrs Jadin, which stated that there should be no unanimity. I made quite a point of that, but I never really got a clear answer. How this is best organised, of course, remains a very sensitive matter, which lives. The N-VA believes that this is best done in a way so that there is always consensus. Belgian troops are not deployed in a foreign operation, even if it is under the European flag, without the absolute and clear consent of the Belgian Government and preferably of the Belgian Parliament. Otherwise, there may be malhears. That is a very sensitive point that I will continue to stress. We must be very careful with the deployment of soldiers and the risk of dead soldiers. There must be sufficient guarantees in terms of democratic support and support for our troops abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u18	Madam Minister, my question arises from consultation with the military and with which I would like to make sure that this is true. There would seem to be a difference in mileage between the military depending on the rank of the military in question. I'm not a communist and I don't think everyone has to make the same amount of money. More responsibility comes with more pay. However, a mileage allowance seems to me to be a compensation and I am surprised that a difference would be made. So I would like to ask whether there is indeed a difference in the system of reimbursement, and if so, on what arguments? In that case, do you not believe that everyone should be treated equally in terms of compensation? Are there any changes in the system planned and do you have any discussions about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u19	The transfer of residence may be made by means of social subscriptions to the State. This is done on the basis of the Royal Decree of 3 May 2007 on the charging of public transport costs in commuting by federal staff by the State and certain federal public institutions. If the person concerned chooses to use his personal vehicle, these professional costs may be deducted from tax. There are no different reimbursement systems for commuting based on the degree. Movements of services under a specific mission shall preferably be carried out jointly and with military vehicles. Only at the request of the person concerned can they be carried out free of charge by public transport from the place of residence, or, exceptionally and for a fee, with the personal vehicle. The relocations made under a specific mission carried out by military personnel with their personal vehicle shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Royal Decree of 18 January 1965 laying down general rules on travel expenses. The lower officers shall be reimbursed on the basis of the applicable rates of first class common transport. Petty Officers and volunteers shall be reimbursed on the basis of the applicable rates of common transport in second class. The Staff Regulations shall no longer apply to officials of the Federal Public Service. The different rates are no longer of this time, and I asked my services to prepare an adjustment to the above mentioned KB.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u20	Madam Secretary, that was very clear. I understand, therefore, that there is no difference in terms of reimbursement of commuting, but in terms of common transport. So there's another difference between first and second class. I hear the Minister will do something about it, and I am therefore satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u21	Madam Secretary, in February, the government concluded a work deal on workable work. One of the measures decided on there is to enable a four-day working week. The changing working regimes that were also decided on offer solutions for people with co-parenting, for example. When I read such things, I'd like to know if they're applicable to military. They do have a rather specific task, but of course they also have a family. I would have liked to know from the Minister what her position is. Are these working arrangements negotiable and included in the consultation with the workers' organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u22	Mr Verduyckt, the Defence Department attaches great importance to the well-being of all its employees. A balanced work-life balance is fundamental to this. This also fits in with the strengthening of the attractiveness of Defence that I wish to achieve, including the POP plan and the Quarter Plan, the predecessors of the STAR plan. In this context, I would like to mention in particular the intention to maintain as many existing quarters as possible and to establish two Quarters of the Future in regions where military presence is limited, particularly in Charleroi and East Flanders. Other projects to promote well-being at work are also in the pipeline. A review of the working time regime and working arrangements has been under way since the end of 2021. The possibility for military personnel to work four days instead of five days is studied, taking into account the specific nature of the readiness and use of the armed forces and the safety at work. In the course of this year, the new lines of action at the level of the Defence Staff will be drawn up and submitted to the trade unions for consultation. They will then be converted into new and better provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u23	Madam Secretary, I think that would be a good answer. It's good that it's being watched. Everyone also understands that there are conditions attached to the job. It's as you say, if you want to make Defense more attractive, we need to look at the soldiers and the way they live with their families. If we can meet them with a four-fifth working arrangement, I think that is a good thing. I am therefore pleased with the answer and we would like to hear how it goes later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u24	Madam Secretary, on 11 March you travelled with a delegation from the press to Estonia to visit our military stationed in Amari. However, this happened after a second question for the visit of the Defence Committee was rejected. In addition, a private company aircraft had to be installed to allow your visit to take place due to the lack of usable or available Defense equipment. Your spokesperson publicly indicated that the larger visit to the base should be cancelled because there was no MRTT available and that there was no other way than to charter a flight, because the Falcons employed by the previous government were too small. I have a few questions about this. Can you confirm that? Was the MRTT flight schedule not readily available in advance? What caused the committee's visit to be suddenly cancelled? In that case, why did you choose to give priority to the press, even to the very local Tournai television, Notélé, over the Committee on Defence? Why did you choose a chartered flight from Global Reach Aviation (GRA) over the Falcons, which the government can normally use? What were the costs of using the apparatus from GRA from Brussels to Amari? By whom will they be carried? How big was the final group you traveled to Estonia with? The spokesperson referred to the Falcon's lack of capacity for the visit. If the capacity was not sufficient, could the visit not have taken place with a smaller group? Can you confirm that the device used was a Bombardier CRJ-900? Given the 90 seats available on that plane, wasn't that far enough enough and more efficient to transport you, your follow-up and the committee to Estonia? That's how we could've come along. Can you confirm that on that day the Falcons and their crew also operated flights?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u25	Thank you also for this pleasant question, even if you have already discussed it in the press before. The flight was initially planned with a MRTT, but given the situation in Ukraine and the support provided by the MRTT in the form of air-to-air refueling, this MRTT was unavailable for passenger flights for IATC partners, including Belgium. One of the Falcons experienced a heavy engine failure in Cagliari and the other Falcon was already scheduled for a flight to Antalya for the benefit of the Secretary-General of NATO. There was therefore no other option than to use a charter through a contract of Defense. The cost of this charter flight was 51.895 euros and was borne by the Defence Department. In the end, the group consisted of 19 people. The aircraft used was a CRJ200 with a maximum capacity of 49 passengers. This capacity was also insufficient for the visit of the Defence Committee. In the context of the conflict we are experiencing in Ukraine and in view of the many questions we are receiving from the media, guidance from the press on this visit was justified in order to inform the public as well as possible. Unlike you, I do not distinguish between national and local media. They all have an interest in informing the public. Furthermore, I did not appreciate the personal attacks on me in your communications on social networks. Not only is this information incorrect and suggests that this is a personal privilege, you also know very well that this is common for official travel, especially when travelling in a military environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u26	Madam Secretary, I don't quite understand. We would normally go with the committee but that was cancelled. That MRTT is used for Ukraine. I can understand that, no problem. But then you suddenly decided, not very far ahead planned anyway, to go there yourself. How long in advance was the decision to go to Amari with those journalists made? One week? Two weeks? It's not like this was planned three months in advance. So that was canceled. Mr President, I made a point of this in this committee. Madam Secretary, then you noticed that there was no device available from the Defense Department. By the way, if they were available, would you have used them? After all, they were too small. You say you've chartered a 49-person plane. You brought 19 people. You're saying the defense commission couldn't come because there wasn't enough room. According to 49 minus 19, there were 30 places left. As far as I know, the Committee for Defence does not have 30 members, the Committee has 17 members. So we could have brought one more employee, one per group. Then our employees could have been there. I'm sorry, but your explanation doesn't add up. Why couldn't you take the committee with you if you had 30 seats left? I don't understand. You're saying a Falcon couldn't and you had to take a bigger plane. I'm telling you, if a Falcon had been available, you probably wouldn't have gone with that Falcon. The prime minister just left those Falcons out there, too. You now have the explanation that they were elsewhere, but the Prime Minister does not have that explanation because at that time one was available. You say you don't like my criticism. I'm sorry, but that criticism is like a house. You've gone on a 49-seat plane. Why didn't you let us come? What does Notélé have more than a Member of Parliament? You say that regional and national press is the same for you. Then why is it only about the regional press from your own region? Then why can't ROB TV, or ATV, or RINGtv, or TV Limburg, which is the most widely viewed throughout Flanders? Why was only the regional broadcasting of your own region invited and other regional media not invited? I don't follow you in that regard at all. That really is a policy à la tête du client. The issue of capacity merely proves that there was a perfect place to take us with us. If Minister Vandeput had dared, your majority with Ecolo-Groen, Mr De Vriendt in the lead, and the PS would have burned him down.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u27	The purchase of the F-35 fighter planes was particularly expensive. It should therefore receive a great deal of attention, because we must ensure that these materials can be used properly. A Pentagon report on operationality with an evaluation of the use of the F-35s in America shows that there is a huge fall in the reliability of the devices. In September 2021 there was an operational low with 53 % availability. For the whole year it was 61 %. A lot of things have been removed from the report. It is therefore impossible to determine what the problems are. However, we must remain attentive to the problems that we will also face. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the performance problems? Do they have an impact on the timetable? The first aircraft will be delivered to our country in 2023 and the work for the Air Base, which we will be discussing later, has been contracted. Do the operational problems affect our contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u28	Minister, I have three questions on the F-35, three questions grouped into two questions. First, I would like to take stock of the updated cost of acquiring these 34 F-35s from the U.S. government. What is the cost of the infrastructure dedicated to these aircraft, the necessary upgrades for their first entry into service, especially in the combat zone? Secondly, what is the status of the discussion on a possible increase in our fleet of combat aircraft in the context of the Belgian Government's desire to significantly increase its defence efforts, as well as in the context of NATO's request for Belgium to have a minimum fleet of 45 combat aircraft? Finally, my third question is that of my colleague Verduyckt and relates to the report of the Operational Test & Evaluation Directorate (DOT&E)? The last report – which I think is dated 20 December 2021 – is similar to the previous report. There is always the same type of problem, with 845 uncorrected defects, 6 of which are category 1, i.e. defects that "may cause death, serious injury or serious injury". Engineers try to solve problems, but in the meantime other problems arise. From year to year, the number of defects does not change much. We therefore risk receiving devices that are not fully developed and that will require further updating, with an additional cost to the key. We are talking in particular about electronic systems, and above all about motorization, which will have to be changed very quickly, at the end of the reception of our F-35s. On the other hand, and this is a disturbing finding of this report, the F-35 availability rate in the United States has been capped at 61 per cent last year. This means that if Belgium had 34 aircraft, only 20 could fly at the same time. How do you react to this information and the outcome of this report, and what would be the consequences for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u29	Madam Minister, I will spare you the introduction that has already been made by the two previous colleagues. I will focus on my three questions. First of all, what is your reaction to this alarming new report on the performance of the F35? Are any adjustments, including financial adjustments, provided for in the agreement with the supplier in the event of the failure of such aeroplanes? Are delivery delays expected? Finally, have we received any explanations from the United States about these failures? Is there a commitment on their part that the aircraft that will be delivered to us will be safe and sufficiently efficient? What about, as Mr Dallemagne said, potential and necessary future updates?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u30	The total F35 fleet has now reached almost half a million flight hours. It is correct that a number of aircraft with older configuration are still subject to technical shortcomings and that this also has an impact on the overall availability figures. The shortcomings and lower availability rates apply mainly to the F35B and the F35C variants and not to the F35A variant, which Belgium buys. With regard to version A, there are no deficiencies in flight safety. The number of failures with an impact on operations decreased significantly for version A, from 13 in 2019 to 8 in 2020 and 3 in 2021. Belgian Defence is regularly informed about the operational capability and availability of the F-35 fleet, as well as the evolution of these figures. The F35A aircraft of the Belgian Defence Department will be of a more modern configuration. We therefore keep our finger on the pulse to make sure that solutions are found in time and that those solutions are included in our basic configuration as much as possible. Today there is no reason to delay the delivery of the first aircraft and the planned timetable remains. With regard to the costs related to the F-35, a detailed briefing was presented to the members of the Parliamentary Committee on Military Procurement and Sales on 31 March. The opinion of the Inspectorate of Finance and the report of the Court of Auditors were also made available to them. The STAR plan does not plan to increase the fleet of F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u31	Madam Minister, you keep your finger on the wrist, and we will of course do the same on this subject. You say there are fewer problems to be expected with the type our country has ordered than with the other types. That's good to hear, just like the timing is being kept. We will continue to follow this dossier closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u32	Minister, I feel you're very confident. You say there are only three faults in 2021. Is this all level 1 defects or defects?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u34	Of the 845 flaws on the 3 aircraft, I find it hard to believe that there are only 3 flaws on the F-35A.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u35	It is understood that there is an impact on operations but zero at the security level. That is what we have as our report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u36	Will you soon have a supplementary report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u37	It's regular!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u38	All right! As far as the upgrade is concerned, you are telling us that you hope that these planes will be upgraded as we buy them. In the specialized military press, it is said that the new engine will only be ready from 2028-2029. By that time, we'll have acquired most of our F-35s and we'll have to change the engine, even though these planes have already been acquired. It is therefore very optimistic that we ourselves in Belgium will be able to benefit from upgrades which will be ready when we have just acquired the aircraft. So I continue to be very concerned about these incremental costs and upgrades and the fact that planes will be delivered without being fully operational. On the costs of the F-35s, I can hear you, minister, but this meeting is being held in camera and I think we have the right to have the figures of the evolution of the acquisition of the F-35s publicly. I cannot therefore be satisfied with your answer to this question. I will rest it because I think it deserves a public debate. At the beginning, figures were provided. Everyone knows these numbers. It is on purpose that I ask this question in a public commission, it is important that we know what the extra costs are, what the evolution of these costs has been and what the costs were not originally planned. I think this is normal in the public debate. You probably don't have those figures in front of you, but I'll come back with this question, because I really think it's in the public domain, since it was in the public domain from the start. With regard to the acquisition of new aircraft, I understand that there will be no new aircraft and that there will be 34 aircraft left. I do not know how this information should be interpreted. Is it related to the fact that these planes cost us a bridge, they cost us a lot of money, and we have no room to buy more? In any case, I note that we are not responding to NATO's request or to this, it seems to be the government's intention, to increase our military capabilities. I will therefore come back to this issue when we talk again about the STAR plan. I certainly do not plead for the purchase of new F-35s, but we will have to check what our additional capabilities will be to enable Belgium to play its role in the major security and defence issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u39	Minister, on this issue, the reports follow and are similar. Your answer is reassuring. I understand that the F-35A are less affected by the defects. But I seem to be a little concerned about the quality and respect of timing. That is why we will remain vigilant. On the other hand, I did not ask you about the matter, but your answer to Mr Dallemagne's question on whether or not the number of aircraft would be increased reassures me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I have been questioning you for the sixth time about the poor payment of our military personnel. In the meantime, you will no doubt know what this is about, because the payout problems are linked to the introduction of the HRM@Defence software package, which is failing. For more than a year and a half in our committee, you are announcing your improvement in this area. Madam Minister, can you tell us again about the overtaking efforts made by the Defence Department to eliminate faulty calculations, the incorrect representation of administrative situations, errors in betting and allowances? What progress has been made and what initiatives have you taken to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the problems with HRM@Defence have been well-known and have been discussed several times in committee. The local police are currently working with the same system and there too there are many problems. I am chairman of a local police area and, in that capacity, I have the same problems as the Defense Department has had for years, since the local police have recently been working with the same accounting system. Apparently, that was a deal. Now the local police zones also have a pay monitor to which they get neither head nor tail, which is very difficult. Madam Secretary, can you give an update on the current status of the problem dossier? How does the number of late payments evolve? How long are the current deadlines for processing the files? The military union ACMP reports: "Today, soldiers are still confronted with the intolerable misery of HRM. At the Ardennes Hunters there is almost a rebellion that can hardly be contained." Madam Secretary, can you confirm that the problems affect some units, such as the Ardennes Hunters, more than others? Can you confirm that the problems are causing social unrest? If so, what steps are you taking with regard to these units? VSOA Defense reports on a meeting with you or your cabinet, saying that a complete solution to the problems will not be there until the end of 2022. Can you confirm that? Have legal action been taken by or even against the Defense Department in this file? If so, can you give an overview of the defaults?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u42	Mrs Ponthier, Mr Francken, I regret that the problems with HRM@Defence have still not been resolved. I'll give you an update. Most of the technical problems since January 2021 have been solved at my request by the private integrator of the software, in close cooperation with the Defence Managers. As a result of the cyber incident at the end of 2021, there has been a further delay. In addition to the technical flaws, there are still problems due to mismanipulation by users. On average over 50,000 pay sheets generated on a monthly basis, an average of 1,000 new tickets are registered each month. More than 90% of these tickets will be resolved within the next payment month. In order to further reduce this number of tickets, the internal recruitment of additional support staff, additional staff training and the updating of the documentation, including for the future, will be the main focus. In addition, together with the integrator Cap Gemini, the possibility to get additional support from Cap Gemini in the central service desk is examined. No significant trend can be observed in registered tickets where one unit would be affected more than another. The reported problems with the Ardennes hunters were dealt with, as for the other units, and I have been confirmed that they have now been resolved. Three complaints were received to date, sent by the ACMP on 15 April 2021, the VSOA on 11 May 2021 and a Defence Officer on 7 July 2021. The complaints received were all dealt with and resolved in good time, so that no lawsuit was brought so far. So far, no legal action has been taken by the Defense Department. In view of the fact that the problems have been dragging on for several years, I would like to ask the department and the contractor to monitor them so as not to increase the technical shortcomings further. The interview I had with VSOA Defense was about implementing improvement proposals and not about the up-to-date problems. Defence is working with the organisation to get input and suggestions from all groups of users about the use of HRM@Defence. The objective is to implement a large number of these proposals in HRM@Defence by 2022. I regret that the problems with HRM@Defence have still not been resolved. I keep following these problems closely. The recapitalisation of staff is an absolute priority for me, especially for the well-being of the men and women of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u43	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your answers, but I am frankly tired, because there is nothing to thank you for. I don't think I'm alone in that. The military personnel will join me in that. Once again, you come no further than to say that you regret it. You will also remain in the field about the damages you could claim from the firm or other steps you should take. The deadline is set at the end of 2022. A thousand new tickets on the 50,000 paychecks, you say. I've interviewed you six times about this problem. I have tabled a motion for a recommendation asking for work finally to be done on resolving the late payment, of defective payments, of incorrect payments. That was, of course, voted away by the majority in this House. Still, after a year and a half, you're still in default. It's still raining complaints. Often the solution is a manual payment to the military. In all this time, therefore, nothing has changed structurally. If I were in your shoes, I would be ashamed of myself, because the problems of HRM@Defence do not fall out of the sky. What could have gone wrong, went wrong. Since the end of 2016, the trade unions and the military have been calling about the serious shortcomings of the programme, which has initially cost EUR 1.6 million. That's not nothing. A lack of transparency in the award was raised in 2017. You've ignored all these signals over the years. The program that initially.......................................................................................................................... It was intended to solve administrative problems or to simplify them, in reality it has caused misery and misery and, above all, a great deal of frustration on the part of those who are responsible for our safety and who already have to do far too much with too little resources. In the private sector, staff had long left the job. That is not the case with the Defense Department, where there is a mentality of can do. As a thank you, they get another punch in the face every day. Madam Minister, a soldier should not be concerned with whether he is being paid and certainly not with whether the payment will be correct. Therefore, in the meantime for the seventh time, at last, make sure that every delay is resolved in the short term, so that the military in this country get what they deserve more than ever, namely respect and recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u44	Madam Secretary, the problems remain. Your greatest ambition is to properly compensate and support the staff and to recruit enough soldiers. I certainly believe in the sincerity of your ambition. In this context, tomorrow we will have the debate in plenary on some of your draft laws. In general, we draw the same line and you can count on our support. But the file I've mentioned is incredibly ambiting. I have experienced something similar in connection with passport control at the airport. Back then, Minister Jambon of the Interior and I, as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, were responsible for everything related to passport control at our external border, i.e. at the airport. If one arrives at Zaventem, one can scan his passport and then you may or may not pass a gate. Well, the gates ordered by Mrs Milquet at a Portuguese firm were a complete disaster. Mr Jambon had to answer at least 30 questions in Parliament because those gates did not work in Zaventem, even though we had not ordered them. That was really annoying. Moreover, the situation is still not ideal, even though it is already a little better. The gates are also less used because they don't work. Everyone still comes to the window and has to show their passport like this. You have the same problem. You inherit a technical device that doesn't work properly. Then two things can be done: either terminate the contract or continue the contract and try to solve the problem. Mr Jambon failed that Portuguese firm. Have you officially failed Capgemini? Did you get compensation? You can't accept that. That's very unfortunate for you, but then you'll have to take legal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u45	It was the previous government that had conducted this negotiation. I don't have the date in mind anymore, but I know I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u46	Madam Minister, following the war in Ukraine, NATO's MAWI - Multinational Ammunition Warehousing Initiative - recaptured the news. This is a plan which, through joint storage facilities, wants to efficiently distribute ammunition among allies. This project originated in 2020 and was actually a Belgian pilot project that would start this year regardless of the conflict in Ukraine. Now, however, a MAWI would be specifically opened in Estonia, where our Defense would apparently store some of its SPIKE antitank weapons. Can you give more explanation about this project? What is the current status of the project and what have the eight participating allies already committed to? How would the project actually work? Who is responsible for the storage of the stored ammunition? Who is allowed to use these weapons and under what conditions? Specifically for the MAWI in Estonia in which our country would participate, what weapons and ammunition do we hope to store there? Who is allowed to use them and under what conditions? Is the information correct that there are no prior financial obligations attached to this? Isn't it true that we'd be placing part of our Spike antitank weapons there? To what end, in view of the fact that our efforts in Estonia have so far been linked to Baltic Air Policing and not to units of the army under the eFP? NATO would also plan a MAWI in Belgium to become operational in the course of 2022, as part of the Air Battle Decisive Munitions project. Where will this MAWI be located? Are additional investments linked to this or is the existing infrastructure adequate in terms of capacity and safety requirements? What allies would like to make use of this? The MAWI would take place under a single overarching legal framework. Does this mean that the stocks of arms on our territory or vice versa are adequately covered by the existing NATO agreements or should additional treaties be signed or ratified?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u47	The Memorandum of Understanding of the Multinational Ammunition Warehousing Initiative should serve as an overarching legal framework within which participants can establish bilateral or multilateral project arrangements for ammunition storage, regardless of location size, duration or number of participating nations or entities. In addition, the framework commits the participating entities to ensure that multinational ammunition storage sites launched under the MOU meet a number of minimum standards relating to both physical safety and the safety of the stored ammunition. The responsibilities and conditions vary according to project arrangement and are determined by the participating parties. The MAWI Project Arrangement 1 between Belgium and Estonia for the storage of ammunition in Estonia was signed by the National Armament Director on 23 March 2022. As the agreement with Estonia is bilateral, no one else will make use of the facility. The project arrangement has no prior financial obligations. The stockage in Estonia provides a logistical advantage for our participation in the enhanced forward presence in Lithuania. After all, the organisation of a recurrent transport of ammunition from Belgium to Lithuania and back would have a negative impact on lifespan. In addition to that agreement, there is also an agreement between Belgium and the NATO Support and Procurement Agency for the storage of ammunition in the Bertrix ammunition depot for the benefit of NATO Allies who wish to use it. The cost of optimising that infrastructure in the field of security is borne by NATO Common Funding. There is currently no need for additional treaties to be signed or ratified. The existing treaties are sufficient. The stockage complies with all applicable conventions and regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u48	Madam Minister, we have therefore reached a bilateral agreement with Estonia on the supply of ammunition to our troops in Lithuania. Bertrix also examines whether weapons can be stored. That is a good thing, because the more cooperation the better, especially under the NATO umbrella. However, I did not hear what weapons were stored there. There was talk of the antitank weapons Spikes. I will perhaps ask another written question on which weapons will be stored there. Or is that classified information?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u49	Madam Minister, I have a number of questions about the further implementation of your initiatives, as announced in your STAR plan, including regarding the budget for the Navy. Last year, to our dismay, we had to observe in this committee that you had halved the VLS capacity or the weapons capacity of our frigates and that you had chosen either a full armament for a frigate or two half armaments for the two frigates. Under the STAR plan, you have an additional billion euros at your disposal for the next three years. It therefore seemed interesting to me to look further at the capacity of the frigates, the armament of the frigates or the expansion of frigates. Madam Minister, in the context of the recently announced additional billion euros, do you provide for additional resources in the STAR plan for our marine component, particularly for frigates? In the Netherlands the plans for Defence and the budgetary trajectory are being revised. Have you had a consultation with the Dutch Minister of Defense on the adjustment and upgrading of the frigates? I also have a question about the Thalassa Summit. What margin is there, if there are additional means to adjust the design of the frigates themselves? What are your priorities and those of the Defense Department? Is there sufficient budgetary margin to ensure full VLS capacity? Is there any margin for BMD capacity with the STAR plan? In the Strategic Vision, there was also an allusion to this. Is there a margin with the STAR plan for the acquisition of an additional frigate or other platforms? Can you confirm that the Dutch partners are currently looking at the slopes to go from two to four frigates? What does that mean for our fleet? What options do you see in a joint purchase with the Netherlands for the shared Admiralty?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u50	Mr Buysrogge, I cannot comment on the intentions of the Netherlands. For the rest, I repeat what I have already said in the past. Defence maintains the needs and budget set out in the Strategic Vision 2016, re-enacted in the Memory of Understanding or MOU, closed on 8 June 2018. To date, the Netherlands has still not given a definitive cost. The STAR plan provides investments with new and additional capabilities to ensure our operationality. That will allow us to broaden the spectrum of defence missions and to maintain them in time. I will never accept compromises on this. With the STAR plan, I want to make it a much broader role and make the strategic vision coherent. The updating of the programme law will be submitted to Parliament at the appropriate time with a final opinion from the Council of State. The different dimensions are included in that law. The update takes into account the priorities of the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u51	Madam Secretary, you haven't really answered much. In fact, it is worrying that you are saying that you will fully stick to what you have already said in the past. Knowing what kind of crisis we are experiencing at the moment, it would be particularly unfortunate that, for example, the position would not be reviewed around the VLS capacity. You yourself talk about guaranteeing and strengthening operationality. Of course, it's interesting that you mention that. If we want to further strengthen capacity and operationality, we must also have the courage to look at the possibility of providing extra frigates. After all, it is important to be operational with our frigates at all times. We must not be dependent on a frigate that is being reworked and stalled, so that no operationality can be provided for. So I look forward to the further implementation of the military programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u52	Madam Minister, on 22 March Boeing and Airbus signed a strategic Chinook partnership to meet the German requirements, which will make Germany the ninth NATO country to select the Chinook as a platform for heavy helicopter capacity for the coming years. If we can believe the media, that's what we're looking for here in Defense. In the margins of the announcement of the STAR plan, it was already indicated that investments would be made in 14 additional light helicopters and four heavy-duty troops transport helicopters to replace the A109 and the NH90 TTH. Given the similar interests, cooperation with Germany is an interesting slope. Madam Secretary, what budgets are provided within your STAR plan for the development of helicopter capacity? By what time do you think it might be active? Secondly, what possible models are DOD looking at to replace the aforementioned devices? What requirements does the Department of Defense have for this? Thirdly, will our country cooperate with the Netherlands to consider a joint purchase? Fourthly, will cooperation be established with Germany? Fifthly, can you confirm that there are strong discussions both in the field of industry and with our partner countries? Finally, can you confirm that the option Chinook is being studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u53	Mr Buysrogge, the STAR plan provides for several dossiers for the development of Defence helicopter capacity. There is a first dossier concerning the acquisition of light helicopter capacity and a second file for a number of medium or heavy helicopters to be determined. The necessary budgets for these dossiers are still to be approved by Parliament. The choice will be based on objective criteria, on the capacities to be met by helicopters and on market opportunities. The purchase request will subsequently follow the planned internal and external audit procedures in order to conclude a public contract. In order not to make procedural errors with regard to public procurement legislation, Defence should not at present designate or appoint a specific model. International cooperation is possible and will be evaluated after a market study and consultation of our partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u54	Madam Secretary, that was a pretty meaningless answer. It is only natural that objective criteria should be used. For example, you have not said whether this has already been discussed with the Netherlands or Germany. Your answer shows that we are all looking forward to updating the Strategic Vision and the Military Programming Act. It has been announced on several occasions. Draft dates have also been reviewed several times to come to the committee with them. You keep dragging that for a reason unknown to me. I don't know if it's up to some coalition partners who don't want to go. We're looking forward to it. You should also know that time is limited if you want to have the military programming law discussed and approved in Parliament and if you want to start with a number of purchase files afterwards. I hope you will succeed in starting up these purchase files, because a legislature is relatively limited for a Minister of Defence. It will soon be 2023 or 2024, so I am really looking forward to starting the debate on the military programming law before the summer in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u55	In consultation with the Minister, the next question will be the last one to be answered today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u56	Madam Secretary, our country has a strong military tradition in the field of plant building. In the Cold War, underground architecture was designed to protect, among other things, nuclear threats. We have to note that over time some infrastructure was closed down, like last year's CRC in Glons. Anno 2022, unfortunately, we are living in a different time perspective again, although we certainly should not override the nuclear threat and talk to ourselves about too many accidents. However, I think it is important to have sufficient capacity in this area too. In any case, we need to know how Defense handles it, for example to provide security for our own military. Madam Secretary, despite the very low probability of a kinetic attack on Defense or on our territory, is there a higher level of preparedness and any measures taken by our armed forces? If so, in what form? On which sites does the DOD still have infrastructure intended to provide some protection against a direct attack from the outside? Which sites are capable of resisting a nuclear attack? What form do they take and what state are they in? What is the view of the Defense Department on the preservation or re-introducing of forms of passive defense in the domains, such as the detention of bunkers or shelters? What infrastructure in the military heritage is it worth investing in again? Defense wants to restore an active anti-aircraft artillery, with the purchase of the Mistral again. Other countries are also researching pistes or wishing to invest in a missile shield. Is there again a medium or long-range capacity, specific defence systems for our bases or cooperation with neighbouring countries that do have such capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u57	At present there is no increased threat to Belgian military installations. The threat level was therefore not adjusted and the level of protection was not increased. All Defence personnel were however sensitized for additional increased vigilance. Throughout history, fortifications could resist the means of attack for certain periods, after which they became irrelevant in view of the technological leaps. The recent development of, among other things, conventional and nuclear bunker buster missiles has once again caused such a turnaround. The vast majority of existing bunker installations in the world cannot withstand the latest developments. Confidentiality and information security are therefore a first important protection against such large-scale threats. Protective infrastructure still makes sense today, on the one hand, to protect civilians and civilian equipment from collateral damage and, on the other hand, to protect military targets from the vast majority of conventional means of attack. The need for protective infrastructure solutions is always the result of a concrete risk analysis, resulting in a wide range of possible measures. For example, many sensitive political and military infrastructure in Belgium has protection measures against, among other things, terrorist attacks involving explosives or various forms of intrusion. The Defence Investment Plan indeed includes several infrastructure security measures, which are in line with the current threat and risk analysis. A fundamental change in the security context with associated security risks will inevitably lead to the need for new measures. This is part of a permanent evaluation cycle within the Defence Staff. The STAR plan provides both a SHORAD capability to protect the Belgian ground forces and a capacity to defend the NATO territory. The exact structure, type or powers of these capabilities have not yet been defined. The possibility of possible cooperation with neighbouring countries also needs to be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic777x.u58	Madam Secretary, that was a sensible answer. The bunker capacity worldwide, not specifically in Belgium, built in full Cold War in the 1950s, 60s and 70s, is no longer particularly topical, which is almost an open door kicking in. I understand. It's interesting to look at that further. Fortunately, there is no increased threat. Our military must always be vigilant, but once again. I look forward to looking here or in a closed session at what additional measures will be taken.
