ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u1	The Minister of Mobility tells me that he will have to leave us at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to dwell on the context, especially since it has evolved since the beginning of the crisis. Various initiatives have been taken, but it is true that rail has played an important role since the start of the Ukrainian refugee crisis. The SNCB initiative to make its network free for refugees was welcomed. As a first step, it is essential to allow them to travel and reach both the bodies in Brussels - the Fedasil centre, the reception centre at Heysel - and the municipalities. This free of charge will also allow them to move on the network because families are sometimes dispersed. In a second stage, there is also an opportunity for Ukrainians to work in cities. Today, given the price of fuels in particular, it is important to have a means of free mobility. As is well known, Ukrainians have problems with the use of languages not only in terms of the alphabet but also in terms of the type of language. It is extremely important to have dedicated information messages to guide them in our territory. In this regard, what is planned at the stations? I am thinking of some essential stations, such as Liège - there are all those refugees who come from the German network in particular - and Brussels as a central place. What is planned as informative messages for refugees? Do you already have any returns in terms of numbers of Ukrainian refugees who used the Belgian railway network? How is SNCB staff aware of the issue of reception, given that there are different categories of people travelling on the network with or without refugee status? What information is provided to them? Like the Guillemins station premises, are other initiatives planned at the stations, particularly in consultation with the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u3	Mr. Secretary, war is, of course, a terrible thing. We must all be concerned about the people who are now on the run. We therefore welcome the fact that public enterprises are considering a solution to help these war refugees. SNCB has decided to help the Ukrainians flee by having them tracked for free. We think that is a commendable decision, but we still have a number of questions about this decision. We are told by SNCB staff that there are some problems. At the start of the measure they had to charge the Ukrainians who were on the run a ticket. In practice, only Ukrainians who come from Germany with a special ticket from the Deutsche Bahn in Belgium may use the SNCB train free of charge. Those who do not enter our country via the Deutsche Bahn must pay. That's what we heard in the beginning. Maybe that's changed in the meantime. In Germany, only identity is considered. Ukrainians get a free ticket. How's that with us now? Does it also happen in Belgium on the basis of the identity card? Are you aware of the problems involved? In addition to the people of Ukraine, there are other war refugees, from other countries such as Yemen, Syria, Afghanistan, and also Palestinian people. What about these people? Will you also give them free tickets? How do you see the difference that is now being made with regard to war refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my written questions. I should also like to apologize, because there is also an actua debate this morning in the Committee on the Interior on the same subject. I'm probably gonna miss part of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u5	Mrs Verhaert and Mr Rigot are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important topical debate which will give me the opportunity to stress the positive role of SNCB, its workers in this terrible crisis that we are also experiencing but that we are still living much more in Ukraine. In the face of Russia's unspeakable aggression against Ukraine, it is our duty as democrats to stand in solidarity with all those who flee the war, who leave their homes, friends and relatives, sometimes under bombs. We're on the rendezvous as Belgians. I am proud of the solidarity that our citizens show every day by giving clothing and food or sheltering refugees. The Government is doing its part. We have taken important decisions at European level that we are implementing in Belgium. I also meet her as Minister of Mobility, first of all with regard to the Ukrainian railways when I see hundreds of thousands of women and children on these trains who continue to ride in spite of the bombs. You may have seen, like me, quite impressive reports and the ingenuity of Ukrainian railway workers. It's a big family. This train has become for them more than a symbol of security and freedom but the tool of their freedom, the means of their freedom. It is also a pride in the rapid reaction of SNCB, which has shown, from the very first days of the conflict, the exemplary path of strong solidarity with all the people displaced by this war, in collaboration with the other European railway companies. The Ukrainians who arrive in Belgium do so via Germany. SNCB contributed to an easy and safe exit from Ukraine thanks to trains with a special "Help Ukraine" ticket. The Deutsche Bahn allows all refugees from Ukraine to travel free of charge through Germany but also to other destinations including Belgium. In practical terms, since 1 March, Ukrainian refugees may, at the time of arrival or on their journey to Belgium, travel free of charge on the SNCB network and on cross-border trains from or to Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and France. To do so, they must present the Deutsche Bahn "Help Ukraine" ticket and/or their passport, Ukrainian identity card or any other proof of identity. I have asked SNCB to show flexibility in this check, given exceptional circumstances. This freedom to flee the war by train is offered free of charge to all persons who, without being Ukrainian, have a Ukrainian residence permit, in accordance with the spirit and letter of European decisions. For the period from 4 to 28 March, a total of 7,181 refugees from Ukraine were reported throughout the network. The majority of them – between 80 and 90 % – arrive through the Brussels-Midi station, from where they can be easily redirected to the Heysel recording centre. They are told the bus to take, which is chartered by Fedasil. The main Belgian stations concerned are therefore Brussels-Midi and, to a lesser extent, Liège-Guillemins. At these two international stations, SNCB has made available a space reserved for the reception and information of refugees. In Liège-Guillemins, the SNCB has planned an information point, which is under the responsibility of the City of Liège, which I thank. The Belgian authorities quickly contacted me. Together, we found a welcome solution. Since 5 March, the City of Liège has been managing this reception from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., in order to inform and redirect refugees to the dedicated centres. Mr Segers, a cooperation has been set up with the Brussels authorities at the Brussels-South railway station to accommodate refugees in a special area and to inform them as well as possible upon their arrival. For example, in order to lead them to Palace 8 on the Heysel, SNCB has prepared information leaflets and posters in collaboration with the cabinet of State Secretary Mahdi. SNCB shares with me that it will set up a new space, as opposed to the present one; normally that would be the case in the next few days. The current space will then only be used for the first reception and for the registration. The second room will then act as a waiting room for the bus, train or any other type of transfer. In the station there are mainly automated toilets. We have therefore asked whether the local government can also provide mobile toilets. In addition, SNCB is in the process of strengthening the Wi-Fi signal and increasing the number of possible connections. The Red Cross has also announced a strengthening of the reception of refugees in Brussels-South. The SNCB website contains useful information for people from Ukraine. Staff in contact with customers have been informed of the conditions for free travel and make leaflets available to travellers. To ensure optimal information and reception of refugees, SNCB is in close contact with the relevant federal, regional and local authorities. For the Brussels-Capital Region, for example, SNCB participates in the weekly meetings of the security cell convened by the Brussels-Capital High Official, bringing together all the authorities and emergency and response services involved in emergency aid. If further requests for station space from local authorities were received by SNCB, it would explore the possibilities depending on availability and operational feasibility. When the SNCB examines the buildings that it can immediately make available to people for their stay, dignity is the first priority. The buildings must be ready for use and meet many standards in terms of the conformity of sanitary facilities, electricity, heating, reception quality. Comfort is essential here. As you can see, SNCB plays an exemplary role of mutual aid and humanity, which I would like to greet warmly. In order to continue this solidarity-based approach, I have asked SNCB to adopt a comprehensive approach to the problem of refugee reception and to reinforce, as far as possible, the effort already made with the provision of complementary buildings. The war brings with it part of the suffering and some people with bad intentions are shamefully taking advantage of the situation, especially with women and children. Over the past few days, the police have identified various cases of abuse or attempted abuse of all kinds. This is absolutely unacceptable. SNCB does not currently have information on abuses or situations of possible abuse in railway stations. However, the railway staff has become more vigilant for suspicious behavior. If the station or train crew detects suspicious behaviour, the SNCB Security Operations Center should be called, which in turn informs the police or Securail. SNCB's Security Operations Center cooperates in real time with the dispatch offices of the railway undertakings Deutsche Bahn, SNCF and the NS, which organise international passenger transport. The refugees who do not travel are immediately referred to the social care network for registration and emergency care in Belgium. In exceptional cases, for example while waiting for a connecting train, the refugees are taken in the station. The staff of Securail is responsible for the first reception of refugees in the absence of support services. Therefore, they provide the contact details of the registration centre and provide food and drink. To facilitate contacts, Securail staff have been instructed to install a translation app on their mobile phone. Beyond the SNCB, it is the drivers, escorts and escorts of trains, as well as the agents of Securail who, together, demonstrate a great deal of humanity by informing these displaced and lost families in a country they often do not know by train or train at best. I would also like to thank all the railwaymen who are helping all these refugees from a war that we hoped would no longer live at the gates of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u7	Minister, thank you for the figures: 7,181 refugees have borrowed the network to date. This is extremely important in relation to the number of refugees in Belgium. Hence the relevance of the SNCB measure which we have welcomed and which we still welcome. As a first step, you recalled the initiatives. The rapid response on the ground was strong and essential at the level of Brussels and Liège-Guillemins for SNCB. Thank you for the additional information. I think that now a second time has to be opened. Refugees are now spread throughout the Territory. It is necessary to see how to continue to inform them well about the network, about useful information and the network of stations may have an interest in terms of informative messages, as well as the SNCB website, especially with messages directly in Ukrainian. I also hear reflections on the issue of housing. I believe that all federal or regional public entities will have to ask themselves whether war and structural housing solutions must be pursued. The SNCB must certainly be involved. Finally, with regard to the mobility of people fleeing wars, all wars, it is well known that this debate is sometimes complicated in our country, often for bad reasons. There needs to be further discussion on this issue. Since SNCB has been open today, this openness and reflection must continue on this issue of people's mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u8	Thanks for the answers. I would like to express my deepest respect for the railway workers in Ukraine. They are very committed to their fellow citizens so that they can flee. I would also like to pay tribute to the railway workers in our country. During the Corona crisis, they have consistently supported the citizens through their service. In conclusion, I would like to warn that people are sensitive to the fact that there is a difference. Whether there is a Yemeni or Ukrainian war fugitive in the wagon, there should be no difference in treatment. Nor do we forget that many people in distressing poverty in Belgium cannot use the train. I am therefore concerned about the reaction of the population. We must pay attention to the sensitivities of everyone and we must not forget anyone. So we need to consider how we deal with war refugees on the one hand, and on the other hand, what policy we are pursuing for citizens who are certainly struggling in today's energy crisis and who have no money to take the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u9	Your answer is very much appreciated, Minister. I appreciate your efforts. The incoming refugees need stability. They've been through the most terrible things. I have visited the information point at the Brussels-South station a number of times, and I have noticed that the service is getting better and better, which I am pleased about. I am also pleased that you will have a bigger room, because it is really necessary. That room must be multivalent. There are children playing and there is a lot of noise upon the arrival of large groups. I have noted that the groups arriving on the platform are accompanied by Securail, the railway police and volunteers from the Red Cross up to the info point. That's going pretty well. My interviews with staff from Securail and SNCB show that they are not aware of the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings or exploitation. Despite their very great efforts, which I particularly appreciate, I have to say in all honesty that they did not really know what those phenomena meant. So I would ask you to remind me again. As signals of exploitation have been detected throughout the country, I would be surprised if there is no exploitation in Belgium. I would also like to ask you to pay attention to the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings getting on the train somewhere in the middle of the journey and arriving with the other refugees. Finally, there is a need to address the people who are waiting in the stations consistently. This is also happening in Germany, for example. They're asked who they're waiting for. If they can't answer that easily, they'll be suspicious immediately. I haven't seen that in Brussels-South, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u10	Question No 55024860C by Mr Patrick Prévot is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u11	Mr Minister, in 2020, the Chamber unanimously adopted my resolution on the cooperation of Infrabel and SNCB in the realisation of bicycle motorways in Flanders and RAVeLs in Wallonia. Last year I asked you about the state of implementation of this resolution. You then informed us that SNCB has been actively cooperating for years in the development of the bicycle infrastructure and that it is receiving many questions from the local authorities. Nevertheless, I have recently received reports that SNCB often takes a problematic attitude in case files for the construction of bike highways. In mid-February, you yourself received a letter from the province of Antwerp, from deputy Luk Lemmens, who complained about the cooperation with SNCB for the development of the bicycle highway F1. These were repeated and late terminations of agreements made by SNCB. These led to a lack of legal certainty for the builder, difficulties in acquiring the necessary land, etc. During the discussion in the Chamber last year, you also announced that your administration had started consultations with SNCB and Infrabel to see how they could facilitate the construction of bike motorways. That brings me to the following questions. How do you explain the persistent complaints? The question of adopting a more flexible attitude is already two years old. Have you taken any steps to implement the resolution or are you still waiting for the negotiations on the new management contracts to be completed? What segments of bike highways to build have Infrabel and SNCB not yet agreed with local authorities because companies believe that certain conditions are not met for them? Have Infrabel or SNCB concluded agreements with local authorities since the adoption of the resolution, which includes the construction of cycle motorways? Are there any further considerations on which Infrabel would like to conclude cooperation agreements for the conclusion of consideration or the construction of bike motorways?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u12	Mr Roggeman, the SNCB and Infrabel have for many years supported the development of cycle motorways along the railway or on former railway lines. Through their constructive cooperation as land managers, municipalities, provinces and regions were able to build a huge network. There is a great will to further expand this network throughout the country. The two railway companies support the other policy levels, both by considering how to best organise the construction of cycle motorways in the station environments, and by actively participating in the necessary business rights. SNCB informs me that there are, of course, cases of station environment that are complex and that some solutions to build a bike highway through or along it are expensive. It is therefore necessary to look for creative solutions. SNCB receives questions about bike highways from all kinds of different parties. For example, the questions may come from municipalities, provinces, regions or others. In some cases a concession is requested, in others a lease or sometimes the purchase of a land. This is analysed on a case-by-case basis. If SNCB finds that the negotiations on rights in rem last for a long time, it shall grant authorisations for temporary employment. This will speed up the development of cycle motorways. The construction of cycle motorways is regulated in a different way throughout the country. This is a challenge for Infrabel and SNCB. In Flanders, the provinces are the trigger. In Wallonia that is the Region itself. In Brussels, the federal fund will be added. In Wallonia, the hilly relief makes it harder to clear space next to the track than in many places in Flanders. In Brussels, we are talking about a very urban and densely built context which makes the space available tighter than in a rural area. There is therefore a need for coordination. I liked to take this role by adding the theme to the federal action plan to promote the bike BE CYCLIST in September 2021. A concrete measure of that action plan concerns the facilitation of cycle routes along the railways. In doing so, I also respond immediately to the motion for a resolution you are referring to. Coordinating and facilitating, in particular, facilitates cooperation between all the partners involved despite the existing fragmentation of competences. I have therefore taken the initiative to bring all the partners around the table. After a series of intensive and good conversations between my cabinet, Infrabel and SNCB, we organised a special session of the federal cycling committee in the FPS Mobility on 26 October 2021. It was a session of bike highways, in which Infrabel, the SNCB, the three regional administrations, Beliris and even the most important cycling associations met for the first time on this important theme. The needs of the railway managers were clarified, as were the legal provisions on rail traffic and the European rules on the sale of land. Contacts were also identified and contact details exchanged. As a result of the first meeting, I agreed with my regional colleagues during the IMC Mobility of December 2021 to actively cooperate with the four of us, i.e. the Regions and the federal level, in the future, to further improve the construction of cycle highways. We are now working on this in a variety of ways. First of all, in March 2022, my cabinet will sit on my initiative with the Flemish provinces to listen to their recommendations for the construction of bike motorways. Secondly, later in spring, a second theme session of cycling highways is planned in the federal cycling committee of the FPS Mobility, also this time with Infrabel and SNCB. Thirdly, I have heard that the Regions themselves are also discussing this important issue with the provinces and municipalities. For example, the Flemish and the Brussels-Capital Region have recently entered into a collaboration around the site www.fietsmotorways.be. The Brussels plans are now being included. The website has received a French version. So we are currently working hard to address this important issue in a thorough manner. My intention is to reach clear agreements with all the partners involved by the summer of 2022. That is also the wish of SNCB and Infrabel. The noses are in the same direction and there is great will to work constructively together. In any case, I will continue to ensure that cooperation with the other levels of policy continues smoothly, as this is in the interests of many current and future cyclists in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u14	Minister, the answer was indeed extensive. I would like to make two small comments. Firstly, I note that you are taking over the classical rhetoric from public companies, such as 'NMBS is fully supporting the development', 'there is already constructive cooperation' and 'there is good will'. However, practice shows that some local and provincial authorities do not take that view, but believe that cooperation is difficult. The constructivity is sometimes absent for them. The statements of support are often not made sufficiently concrete. Recent communications from the province of Antwerp bear witness to this. I think it is important that agreements and contractual commitments are respected. SNCB must also show itself to be a stable partner for other governments in this country. If that is not the case, then there is a problem. I come to a second aspect. You reply that the necessary land is made available via purchase, lease or sometimes purchase of the property. However, one of the questions in our resolution is not to do so. Article 2 of the resolution calls on the government to urge SNCB, and indeed Infrabel, not to sell the land to the municipal authorities when acquiring the land, except for a symbolic euro or the establishment of a commercial right. A sale to commercial value is a problem for many municipal authorities who want to build a bike highway. For this reason, the resolution asked that such practices should be omitted, that sales should no longer be made and that the municipal authorities should continue to charge only the costs of administrative handling and, where appropriate, other costs in the margins of transactions or establishment of a right in rem. The fact that you confirm today that this is still being applied is the best proof that our resolution has not yet been put into practice. I'm sorry about that. The request was supported by everyone in plenary, with only one abstention. It was also supported by your group, Minister. I would ask you to take a closer look at the correct implementation by public companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u15	Minister, it is often said that Vivaldi is one team, but in action we sometimes see it less. I have two questions. I have heard from your fellow ministers Verlinden and Clarinval that they sent you a letter months ago, but you still have not answered it. At least that's what they're telling us. You are shaking your head in denial, so I would like to hear whether they are selling falsehoods in this House. My second question concerns the content of that letter. The coalition agreement makes it very clear that this government will work on place-based policies, asymmetric policies, that you will therefore use federal powers to implement a policy that meets the needs of the Länder. That is what the coalition agreement says, so what your fellow ministers are asking you to do is what you will do to implement the coalition agreement. Given that the letter has not yet been answered, I am currently doing the rounds. After all, you are not the only minister who would not have replied. Only 4 out of 20 have replied, so I am asking them all about their intentions to implement the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u16	Mr Loones, as you rightly point out, the coalition agreement provides for the possibility, not the obligation, for the government to exercise its powers asymmetrically in order to meet the specific needs and dynamics of the various areas of the country, the so-called place-based policies. After analysing my powers, we have not found any issues that were relevant to the asymmetric exercise. I am in favour of a cooperative federalism and have therefore revived the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Mobility Ministers. It meets every two months and has already produced many concrete results. Together we do better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u17	Minister, I was not expecting another answer, but it would be polite to give your colleagues an answer. If they send you a letter, it would be good to return a letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u18	I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u19	They say this is not the case. Are you saying that Minister Clarinval and Minister Verlinden are lying?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u20	I would never say that. I don't know when they said that, but I answered them. I talk to them a lot whenever I need to. I am a polite minister who answers all the questions, both those of Members of Parliament and those of my fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u21	You are so polite that only two memories of your colleagues have been needed. I will, of course, request the letter and compare the dates. There's something else I don't understand. I arrived here during Mr Roggeman's question. In your reply, you said that the situation in Wallonia is different because it is a hilly region. Brussels is an urban, densely built area. As you said, Flanders has a rural character, you confirm in one question that the situation is geographically completely different, to say in the subsequent question that there is no difference and that there is no need to pursue a different policy tailored to the needs of the different Länder. Minister, I do not know if you will read the answers that your cabinet is preparing before you debit them here, but it is a suggestion to do so next time to ensure some coherence during the sitting. I want to end with a positive note. I invite you to think creatively about implementing the coalition agreement. It will only benefit the mobility of all people in this country if they are finally given a tailor-made policy. We do indeed have different expectations because of a different geographical context, as you yourself pointed out in the answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u22	Question No 55025625C by Mr D'Amico is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u23	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u24	Mr Comrades, in accordance with the coalition agreement and based on the polluter pays principle, we want to discourage the use of fossil fuels, including in aviation, as much as possible by introducing a tax-driven instrument. Fair and sustainable competition between different modes of transport is essential, in particular between short-distance air and rail transport. That is the aim of the entry fee, which was decided at the October budget conclave last year. For its practical implementation, please refer to the Minister for Finance, Mr Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u25	I would have expected you to refer to another minister, which is entirely in line with the lame communication around the flight tax. In the beginning, there was no answer to any question, nor to the question of who the fee would apply, nor to the question of what distances it was about. Nor could the government give figures. All she could say was that the tax would raise EUR 110 million in three years. There was no communication at all, even after questions and interplays. Apparently there were also problems with communication to the actors in the air transport sector themselves. They were informed rather late and were therefore difficult to anticipate the practical roll-out of the tax. It has always been said that it was a steering measure towards more environmentally responsible transport such as the train. But for several short and medium distances the train is not a full alternative and certainly not for long-distance flights. So there's nothing steering about it at all. It's just a tax increase on the hood of hardworking people who save up to go on vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u26	Mr Tortiers, road safety is an absolute priority for my regional colleagues responsible for Mobility and I. That is why we have jointly developed an inter-federal road safety plan. That plan was presented on 23 November at the State General for Road Safety. This is how we aim for zero blind spot accidents with trucks. It was recently decided to convene a separate interfederal working group representing both the federal and the regional levels. This specific working group will be drawn by the Flemish Region. For example, the federal government can impose anti-dead angle systems and 360 degree cameras for certain types of trucks and validate the different technological systems or design a road sign for areas where trucks are not allowed to drive without such equipment. Afterwards, the regions can define the zones, set up safer cycle paths and crossroads and increase awareness. By better coordination, we want to tackle the problem of blind spots, because box thinking hasn't avoided any road deaths.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u27	Minister, I am partially satisfied with your answer. It is, of course, fine that an interfederal working group has been set up. I hope he will work as quickly as he does on the e-steps regulation. However, I have been asking questions about blind spot accidents for several years and I regret that this is only now happening. Once again, I hope that results will follow very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u28	Mrs Verhaert is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u29	Mr Minister, this is a very important dossier. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced of that. We have recently made a place visit with this committee. My question - as I try to ask them every round of questions - is what has happened in the meantime. What steps have you taken since we last discussed this on 8 February? Have there been any contacts? What was communicated? Are the Dutch convinced of our will to realise this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u30	In the previous committee on 8 February, Mr Torasters, we discussed the Hamont-Weert connection in detail during the topical and urgent debate, a dossier which is very close to my heart. I continue to commit myself to making progress in this respect, of course together with the Dutch Government that I need to do so. I can tell you the following new information. On the Belgian side work was started on the construction of a second track between Balen, Merksplas and Neerpelt. In my discussions and contacts with my Dutch colleague, with whom I had an introduction last week, the necessary attention is paid to this dossier. Dutch Secretary of State Vivianne Heijnen stated in our discussion last week that she considers the cross-border connections important and that the dossier Hamont-Weert is currently in the Dutch Lower House for analysis. In addition to these talks at the political level, there have been no other meetings of working or steering groups dedicated to Hamant-Weert. In reply to Mrs Verhaert's question on the study, my policy cell delivered the presentation of 26 slides, as proposed to SNCB's decision-making bodies, to the committee secretary. I would point out that the content of this study is the sole responsibility of SNCB. Finally, Mr Toventors, I hope that the work visit you and your colleagues have recently participated in between Hamont and Weert was enriching.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but allow me to say that I am starting to get worried. After all, we have been going on for many weeks. A meeting took place last week. I do not call that a force of action, that is not what I call pushing and pushing, it is not everything to convince the Dutch that this connection needs to be established. I think it's way too low. I believe that the visit of our committee was a stronger signal than what the federal government has given to the Netherlands. I can only regret that. I hope that the Dutch will be convinced. That's crucial now. Since the Dutch policy plans are now being drawn up, the Dutch must now be convinced that this connection is also valuable to them and that on the Belgian side there is indeed the will to realize that dossier. I would like to mention once again the fact that we sometimes receive very difficult information about SNCB. I have already discussed this on several occasions, also recently in the course of the work. I am now referring to the report of the study carried out, to which Mrs Verhaert also referred. I have already asked a number of oral questions and several written questions on this subject. In your written reply we get a homemade summary, while we request the study ourselves. I quote from your written reply: "The underlying detail study is not publicly shared for strategic and confidential reasons." These strategic and confidential reasons are strange to me in this case. They are very essential in order to convince the Dutch. That is why I deeply regret it. I absolutely want to ask you to step up, because it is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u32	Mrs Verhaert has arrived and will give her a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u33	Mr. Secretary, I'm a little disappointed. About three weeks ago we made a place visit, including in Weert. I think that the importance of this cross-border connection is very clear to everyone. It also takes very little. I therefore regret that there is not enough commitment. In addition, it is always protected that the report cannot be made available. It's really about a public interest. The Chamber adopted a resolution specifically on that connection. I myself have also tabled a resolution on regional cross-border connections. It is disappointing how little use is made of it. That is so important for many border regions. Hopefully we will finally be able to look into this study and take the necessary steps to make a great deal of effort for these cross-border connections. Hopefully some of these connections will finally be realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u34	Belgium has done its part of the work. We are now waiting for the Netherlands. I spoke to the Secretary of State responsible for the Spoor and made it clear to her that we are waiting for a reply from the Netherlands. She has shown interest and will study it. She hasn't made a commitment yet. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u35	"Mr. Minister, the press recently echoed the additional funding from the federal government to encourage the use of trains rather than trucks for the transport of goods and goods. In concrete terms, there are additional connections to Yves-Gomzée (new Carmeuse career) and Philippeville (Career Les Petons de Solvay). Therefore, "freight" traffic combined with "passenger" traffic will promote the future profitability of investments on this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u36	•And can you specify in which timetable these would be achieved?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u37	Minister, a few weeks ago, the Council of Ministers decided on the allocation of rail investments under the Transition Plan. Two hundred and fifty million euros will be spent on investments in rail, as you mention in the press release you published on your website on 25 February. A few days later, Secretary of State Thomas Dermine explained on his Facebook page that line 132, which connects Charleroi to Mariembourg, was saved thanks to European investments in the Recovery Plan. Do you confirm that line 132 is not likely to close in the medium term, for both passenger and freight transport? What investments have been made on this line over the past five years? In the area of freight, will an additional connection be made in Philippeville for the career "Les Petons"? The new connection of Carmeuse, in Florennes, on the old line 136 that leads to line 132 will it see well the day? If so, can you tell me if it is Infrabel who will carry out the work and will pay for the cost of the connection and if it is Carmeuse who will take over the reactivation of the line?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u38	Mr President, Mr Delizée, Mr Bombled and Mr Parent, as announced in the same committee last October, there will be no closure of railway lines. That's the opposite! My ambition is to strengthen the network in order to make rail the backbone of our country's mobility. It can therefore be said that the communication by the Secretary of State, Thomas Dermine, is not a scoop, but at most the confirmation of a very clear commitment to maintain and strengthen the current transport offer, including line 132, which is as dear to me as it is to you, ladies and gentlemen. This applies both to the transport of persons and to the transport of goods. You know the government's ambition to double the volume of goods transported by rail by 2030. This ambition is in fact reflected in the Boost plan that I put in place from the beginning of the legislature and its funding both from the European funds of the EPR and from the 2030 transition plan. It is 180 million euros that have been released by the government for the transport of goods, a large part of which will also benefit passenger transport. Specifically with regard to line 132 Charleroi-Mariembourg, a total budget of EUR 4.4 million was earmarked specifically to initiate work relevant to the continuity of the line. This budget will be devoted, on the one hand, to renewal work and, on the other hand, to the detection system and to the response to the generic technical requirements of simplified signalling. These renewal projects and the development of the simplified signalling project are expected to be finalized by 2024. This work will connect Solvay's quarry to line 132. I would like to stress once again that these investments in freight transport also greatly benefit passenger transport. As in the case of line 132, freight and passenger trains use the same rail network. All these investments improve the network as a whole, reduce the environmental impact of mobility and thus improve the railway ecosystem between freight and passenger transport. I just want to remind you that a freight train is 50 trucks that are not on the road. This improves road safety. This reduces traffic jams, CO2 emissions, pollution of all kinds, often complained about by local quarries. I think you know that, Mr. Bombled, Mr. Delizée. I have no doubt that Mr Parent is also aware of this, even if he is not quite from the same region. In any case, I would like to thank you for this question, which allows us to take stock and stress that the rail network must play this important role in the mobility of tomorrow, both for people and for goods.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u39	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Personally, I never ask about maintaining the line again, because I've been convinced of it for a long time. We have already talked about it over time, since the beginning of the legislature, and with your colleague before you. It is true that sometimes rumors exist or social networks worry or people worry, distribute documents or leaflets, what I know! At times, journalists wrote articles that were a bit of a concern to the public. At the time of Infrabel's complete renovation of the section between Mariembourg and Couvin, articles claimed that the line would be closed in time, which was a complete nonsense. I'm not afraid. I say it every time. I'm not questioning you any more about the survival of the line. I know that you are paying attention to it anyway, and that today SNCB does not have a policy of closing lines, but rather of improving supply. Yesterday we had long hearings, long discussions with the CEO of Infrabel. The question of financial resources was obviously at the heart of the debate. There are financial needs to maintain the network. He did not bring rails, but he brought screws, normal screws and worn screws, to show the importance of the maintenance work. But there are also new demands and improved supply. So there are demands for financial needs. I actually wanted to know what the work done with this money would be, in a little more concrete way? Secretary of State Thomas Dermine worked on this Recovery Plan. He communicated about its contents. In itself, if there is money from this European Recovery Plan, which is destined for rail, it is a very good thing. I was talking about the financial means. Everything that contributes to funding is in itself a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, people who live in rural areas - I do - are generally afraid that the railway line serving their commune or region will disappear on the pretext that it would not be profitable. Fortunately, I have been able to see that significant investments have been made on line 132, which connects Charleroi to Mariembourg in recent years, or even in recent months, whether it is the renewal of the rails and ties or the partial renewal of the signalling system. I have also observed the repair of several works of art or security or other work. I also hear that further work will soon be carried out. What is gratifying is that there is support for the business world. Indeed, I will mention the work of the connection linking quarries to line 132. In any case, I am pleased that the completion of this work reflects the desire to sustain this rural line. Ensuring the transport of passengers while promoting economic development through the transport of goods is essential for this basin of life in the south of the Entre-Sambre-et-Meuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u41	Mr Delizée, it is true that I do not have your history on line 132. However, as you mentioned, we met with Mr Gilson yesterday and I was able to tell him about line 132 and the fact that, in recent months, new rumours had come back and been disseminated in the press about the sustainability of this line. However, Mr. Gilson responded that whenever there were problems on some lines - including 132 - the federal government had provided solutions. This confirms what the minister had said at the time - since he had already been questioned about it - about the fact that there would be no closure of lines under this legislature. At this stage, and with respect to line 132, it can be seen in any case that the undertaking is being fulfilled. The details of the resources devoted to it were discussed. Thank you for that. Neither am I a "local" of the stage, but we also have lines that are in a certain state in the region of Huy-Waremme, but I am glad that means are devoted to it. Indeed, I also believe that we need ambition for rail, especially for freight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u42	Minister, you want to increase the supply of rail transportation. The Council of Ministers has, moreover, decided to commit significant resources to make the necessary investments. However, a few weeks ago, a CSC delegation was present at Mariembourg station - proof that a lot is happening on line 132! - to distribute leaflets and propose to commuters to sign a petition. In fact, the union believes that political ambitions cannot be realized without ensuring sufficient employment and minimum security. In the 2000s, there were approximately 40,000 railway workers in service. The SNCB and Infrabel now have about 28,000 people. During the health crisis, trains had to be removed due to a lack of staff. In addition, some categories of agents even experience difficulties in taking their days of rest. Minister, is there a recruitment campaign underway within these two companies? If so, what are the most sought-after profiles? Are there any difficulties in recruiting staff? If so, what are the reasons for this and what is the intention of SNCB and Infrabel to address it? Is the aim to maintain, increase or decrease the current number of jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u43	Mr Bombled, thank you for asking me about the staff of SNCB and Infrabel, the railway workers who are the soul of our railway companies and who make our trains run safely at all times and under all circumstances and who solve the sometimes difficult problems that arise in such infrastructure. You offer me the opportunity to thank them, as well as those who repaired the network after the floods, those who remained mobilized during the covid and who were sometimes victims of it. I look forward with you to the near-return to normal in the transport offer since the beginning of this month. I am obviously concerned about the staff situation and wish the best in this area for our railway companies. To do this, different ingredients are essential: a vision of the future - that is what we are working on with vision 2040 - and ambition. The government is very clear about this, as we want to double the modal share of rail, both for people and for goods. This ambition must be reflected in the documents under negotiation: the SNCB service contract, the performance contract for Infrabel and the masterplan for freight. All this will lead to more people, more revenue, more goods, and of course we will have to recruit staff. You have to already. Recruitments are under way at the SNCB and Infrabel levels. SNCB has just launched a major recruitment campaign to recruit 1,300 new employees. The vast majority of vacant posts are operational profiles. These are visible trades known as an attendant, a train driver, a station assistant, a station sales agent or a security officer at Securail. There are also less visible jobs such as technician, manoeuvring driver, co-worker preparing trains for departure. At Infrabel, among the most sought-after technical profiles, employees responsible for the maintenance of railway infrastructure, such as maintenance agents, electro-mechanical technicians, mechanics, welders and engineers, are the main contributors. Last week, in Leuven, I attended a meeting between future engineers, Infrabel, SNCB and other railway companies to convince them to work in this beautiful railway sector. To meet this challenge, Infrabel does not spare his efforts and recruitment campaigns are carried out very actively and in a targeted manner. Infrabel organises, for example, in the next few days, day jobs in Denderleeuw and Malines. Nevertheless, the labour market is currently very tense. The shortage of technical labour also affects SNCB and Infrabel. This is especially the case in certain regions, in Flanders, and for certain profiles such as technicians. In these regions and for these profiles, additional efforts are therefore being made, in the form of large-scale recruitment events and communication campaigns. There is also collaboration with organizations such as VDAB, Forem, Actiris and many other actions to increase the flow of candidates. The emphasis is also on internships. To taste the railway is to choose the railway! Mr Bombled, in addition to a vision of the future and ambition, we also need means. In addition to the structural resources of SNCB and Infrabel, more than a billion and a half have been made available for rail since the beginning of the legislature. But future contracts will have to be accompanied by a fiscal trajectory on which I am working very hard. I look forward to your party's support for these necessary means.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u44	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that companies such as SNCB and Infrabel are constantly recruiting. Just go to their website to find out. Of course, the health crisis prevented most of the job fairs from being organised, which hampered the recruitment campaign. As you pointed out, these fairs can again be organised under different names. I am thinking in particular of the Job days. Indeed, in railway companies, there are a multitude of trades that exist, and it is important to show the skills of railway workers to job seekers. Some trades use state-of-the-art technologies for which SNCB or Infrabel have achieved a high level of expertise. There is also the Infrabel Academy, the Belgian Railway School, whose aim is to be able to fill a large number of technical vacancies. However, as you pointed out, there is a real difficulty in recruitment. I am thinking in particular of technicians. The risk is that at some point, the lack of staff will lead to increased pressure on the incumbents. If this pressure becomes too high, mistakes could be made, endangering the safety of the workplace and, perhaps, the railway user. It is therefore important to continue investing in recruitment campaigns and to empower our railway companies to attract new railway workers. Mr Minister, at any rate, we will remain very attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u45	Mr President, Minister, SNCB has chosen how it will use €28 million received to improve public accessibility at railway stations. Approximately half of this amount will be spent on digital accessibility projects, while the other half will be spent on upgrading and dock equipment. Mr Minister, apparently only about 15 stations will be the subject of work to make them more accessible. Can you tell me which stations it is? What about the other stations? Should it be inferred that they will remain difficult to access for persons with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u46	Mr President, Mr Bombled, the accessibility of rail and rail is another of my priorities that I share with SNCB and Infrabel. Currently, around 75 stations are independently accessible in Belgium. This is the legacy I receive from my predecessors. I'm trying to expand that number of stations. An autonomously accessible station is a station that does not have any obstacles from the entrance of the station until the train climbs from the docks. My ambition is to double the number of stand-alone stations by 2025, i.e. 150 stand-alone stations, to reach 250 stand-alone stations in 2030, i.e. one in two stations in Belgium. To achieve these objectives, budgetary resources have already been made available under the Boost plan financed by the European Recovery Plan. As part of the continuation of the Boost plan funded by the federal government's transition plan following my proposal, 28 new million euros have been allocated to make our trains and stations more accessible in the broad sense. This envelope will be invested in two ways. As you said, about half of this amount will be spent on digital accessibility projects, but also on the development of a new interface and the purchase of sales machines that better meet the needs of people with reduced mobility, including intercoms and audio. The other half, on the other hand, will be dedicated to upgrading and equipping the wharfs. The location of the works will be decided on the basis of the plans for the modernisation of the infrastructure of the network, since each time it is a collaboration between Infrabel and SNCB, each doing its share of work in this complex railway world. Care will be taken to ensure that modernization works do not disturb rail traffic as much as possible. I believe that this accessibility is a condition for making mobility a freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is important to make arrangements to improve accessibility for people with reduced mobility. As you know, everyone has the right to full inclusion in society, including reasonable accommodation. It is also enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, it seems essential to me to consider all persons with disabilities in the same way. In other words, the improvement of accessibility should not be limited to 15 additional stations. On the contrary – and you have given indications in this direction – the investment must be permanent so that the proposed infrastructure can meet the needs of people with reduced mobility, whether they use the station of a large city or that of a small rural municipality. I would therefore ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament 55025760C by Mrs Verhaert will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u49	Minister, at the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 4 March last, it was decided to switch the coronabarometer to code yellow. As of Monday 7 March, the Covid Safe Ticket disappeared in the hospitality industry and various restrictions for all kinds of events fell. Since the Covid Safe Ticket has fallen away and people are allowed to experience uninhibited sport, culture or other events together and the catering industry no longer has any restrictive measures, it is a little strange that the duty of mouth masking from the age of 12 onwards remains mandatory in public transport. More specifically, I am talking about the duty to mask the mouth on the train.The duty to mask the mouth still applies only in the train, so not in the stations and on the platforms. Train passengers should not wear the mouth mask there. Why are rail passengers from 12 years onwards still obliged to wear a mouth mask on the train? Do you think it is logical that people living in different locations, during various activities or events in the same room or surroundings without a mouth mask should wear the mouth mask on the train? Is there currently excessive pressure on the care sector, in particular on new hospitalisations or inclusion in intensive care due to corona infections? Do you believe that the duty of mouth masking on the train will improve the attractiveness of public transport? Will you take steps to put an end to compulsory oral masking on the train? If so, when and how? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u50	Minister, the corona measures have been relaxed virtually everywhere. Mouth masking is a big exception, because the train still applies. Now it may be that there are reasons for that, but I would like to know them. You were clear on previous parliamentary questions on the subject. You said that SNCB was simply following the advice of the GEMS. The latest GEMS opinion on the subject dates from 28 February and stated that the wearing of a mouth mask on public transport should be maintained until the entry into force of code yellow. By now, code yellow has been applicable for more than 3 weeks, especially since 7 March. Today we are March 30th. I note that in the meantime several other European countries, including neighbouring countries, have abolished oral masking on the train. Why does SNCB go against the advice of the GEMS? Who made that decision and for what reason? Why should today, after reaching code yellow, still wear a mouth mask on the train? If yellow is no longer the criterion for abolition, then what is it? What route are you taking today?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u51	Mr Roggeman, Mr Toventos, on 4 March the Consultative Committee confirmed the transition to code yellow, synonymous with a return to a daily life as good as normal. That is a good thing. No more mouth mask in school, no more CST use. This has always been my creed: not a day longer than strictly necessary. We must now learn to live with covid instead of putting daily life on hold. As far as the figures on non-wearing of the mouth mask are concerned, I refer you to the monthly reports delivered to the committee on the basis of the pandemic law. My latest report shows that 34 pvs were drawn up between 28 January and 24 February to avoid wearing the mouth mask. For the period from 24 February to 25 March, SNCB informs me that Securail has prepared 18 pvs for the non-wearing of the mouth mask. SNCB tries to communicate as well as possible about the importance of the mouth mask and will continue to do so as long as it is asked to do so. Since the beginning of the health crisis, SNCB has followed all the safety measures imposed on it. She will continue to do so. The trains are still thoroughly cleaned and disinfected on a regular basis with special attention to the steering stations, the space reserved for the train guide, and sensitive areas such as pushbuttons, railings, doorknobs, tables and toilets. The air is completely refreshed in all trains every ten minutes, as recommended by the High Health Council. Air treatment systems shall be maintained regularly and the filter elements replaced. Trains are thoroughly cleaned at regular intervals, avoiding dust accumulation in the air distribution system. The presence of CO2 varies greatly according to the movements of passengers, such as exiting and opening the doors. Therefore there are no systematic CO2 measurements, but the tests you cite are positive for confidence. Trains do not appear to be hotbeds of contamination and passengers are safe from a health point of view. The change to code yellow does indeed mean the end of compulsory teleworking. Together with SNCB, we are doing all we can to get people back on the train, while also ensuring sanitary safety. In the meantime, the occupation of the trains is also moving in the right direction. In the week from 14 to 18 March, the global occupation was 79% compared to the same week in 2019. The Consultative Committee with the various governments, including the Flemish Government, Mr Roggeman, has decided to maintain the oral mask obligation from the age of 12 on public transport, i.e. bus, (pre) metro, tram and train. The Royal Decree of 15 March 2022 regulates the obligation to wear the mouth mask on trains to limit the spread of the coronavirus, which will soon enter into force retroactively. On 10 March 2022, I implemented the decision of the Consultation Committee of 4 March. The KB does not go against the GEMS's advice, quite the contrary. At the time when the GEMS issued an opinion, the threshold for colour code yellow had not yet been reached for the daily hospitalisation indicator, while the IC-load indicator reached the threshold for code yellow on 22 February. The GEMS has recommended that the masks in public transport be maintained until both formal thresholds for code yellow have been reached, which has not yet been the case. Together with the experts, we will then re-evaluate the health situation. The current situation will be examined on the basis of developments. For example, the Consultation Committee will decide to lift the obligation to wear a mouth mask in public transport or to retain the obligation for a while. The aim is to protect the most vulnerable among us in a place where it is sometimes a little busy. I am also in close consultation with my regional colleagues, as always, with regard to oral masking in public transport. We agree that an obligation or recommendation to wear a mouth mask in public transport must be applied uniformly throughout the country, but not a day longer than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and long answer. Mr Roggeman and I have just asked what the decision is based on continuing to require mouth masks on the train. The reason I have not been able to understand with the best will in the world from your answer, which I have listened carefully. That remains a question for me. I still don't see the logic. People coming together in the living room, people meeting at sports events, people visiting cultural events together, people going to the cinema together, people playing sports, cards or concerts and festivals, and people sitting in the car together, can do all that without a mouth mask. However, where the same persons are required to sit on the same train, the covid alarm shall be used and mouth masks shall be worn without delay, even if they are safely at the window during a train journey to the sea. Maybe the same people are on the train half an hour after their train ride together again without a mouth mask in the same poorly ventilated office space. I am therefore completely unaware of the logic. The duty of masking on the train is illogical. Take an example to your colleagues in the Netherlands, where the mouth mask obligation on the train has been abolished. This would improve the comfort of rail passengers and perhaps the occupancy rates of the trains and the revenue of SNCB. I've heard you explain that trains are not hotbeds of contamination. By doing so, you yourself indicate that the duty of masking is simply illogical. That is why I am free to table a motion for a recommendation for the abolition of oral masking on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. SNCB is indeed following the measures imposed on it by the government. I have heard from you today two criteria for abolishing oral masking: firstly, the introduction of code yellow, which has been in force for several weeks now, and secondly, the threshold values for hospitalisations. I look forward to that, first of all, of course, in the interests of the patients themselves. I note, however, that, despite these criteria, you are still holding up a political battle. I hope that, when we dive below the threshold of hospitalisations, we will be able to effectively abolish the duty of masking and that the temporary measure will not slip into permanent public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u54	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility plans to lead more people to the use of the train; - considering the importance of the comfort aspect in promoting the use of the train, - the abolition of oral masking in hotels, sports, culture and all kinds of events; - whereas the duty of mouth mask is not compulsory in stations and on platforms, - considering that teleworking is no longer compulsory, so that people also work together and without a mouth mask on the work floor; - considering that there is currently no excessive pressure on the care sector, hospitals or intensive care departments; - considering that there is no longer an epidemic emergency; - considering the high vaccination rate among the population, asks the government immediately take the necessary measures to abolish the duty of mouth masking on trains so that passengers can move in a comfortable way." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Frank Toventors and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - in view of the government's mobility plans to encourage more of our citizens to use the train; - in view of the importance of the comfort aspect in promoting the use of the train; - in the light of the abolition of the requirement to wear masks in the sectors of the Horeca, sport, culture and at all kinds of events; - Whereas the wearing of the mask is not compulsory at stations and on docks; - in view of the fact that telework is no longer compulsory, so that workers can again interact without a mask at the workplace; - in view of the fact that there is currently moderate pressure on the care sector, hospitals or intensive care units; - in view of the fact that there is no longer a question of an epidemic emergency; - in view of the high rate of vaccination among the population; asks the government to take immediately the necessary steps to remove the requirement to wear the mask on trains so that passengers can move comfortably." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u55	Mr Minister, in carrying out his supervisory mission and taking into account the results of a previous review, the P Committee decided to launch a monitoring inquiry into the way in which security services, such as the SNCB security service, give effect to the powers conferred on them, in particular as regards the powers governing the use of force and force. Research was also carried out into how any complaints that might have resulted in this could be dealt with and dealt with. That was a rolling investigation between 2018 and 2021. The report on that research is very interesting and comprehensive. In summary, several findings emerged from the investigation. For example, the current uniform is perceived by the security officers as inappropriate. Problems arise in the implementation of identity checks and in the exercise of the right of opinion. There are uncertainties in the implementation of a security check and in the use of handcuffs. With regard to the use of pepper spray as a defence, the legislative framework is restrictive. There are also problems with the use of dogs. Furthermore, the quality of some of the planned training courses is inadequate. Cooperation between Securail and the police is not always optimal either. Finally, the complaint procedure is flawed. Mr Minister, are you aware of the content of the said report? I suppose so. How do you assess the pain and working points cited in the report? What measures will you take in the short term to respond to the comments made and the recommendations listed in the report? At what time will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u56	Mr Toventos, I attach great importance to the safety of passengers and all railway workers. This is a necessary condition to ensure and increase the attractiveness of the train. I therefore support and encourage all measures that contribute to improving that security. I therefore consider it important to discuss this with you and your colleagues in committee. We also have the opportunity to do so on a regular basis. Together with the experts of my cabinet, I have taken careful note of the report of the P Committee and its findings and recommendations. In any case, I think it is essential that there is a clear framework within which Securail operates and that the service has the appropriate means to perform its tasks properly. I take this opportunity to express once again my appreciation for the work of the staff of Securail, which makes an important contribution to the safety of passengers and train staff. First of all, I would like to remind you that I recently asked for an opinion from the Private Security Advisory Council to assess the adequacy of the division of tasks between the police and private security services, as well as the adequacy of the legislation on the operational framework for Securail agents, their defence and their uniforms. I would like to await that opinion before taking any initiatives, together with the Minister for the Interior. I repeat that security officers such as the staff of Securail are responsible for security, but they do not have a police officer's statute. The division of tasks between the police forces and Securail is the subject of discussions with the cabinet of the Minister for the Interior, which I regularly give the necessary impetus to. I refer in particular to the ongoing discussions in connection with the revision of the Duquesne letter. The aspect of training is also part of the bilateral talks. I would also point out that a reorganisation of Securail has been under way since the beginning of this year. This reorganisation took place after extensive discussions between the management of SNCB and representatives of the trade unions in December. The tasks of Securail and rail safety in the broad sense are an essential part of the ongoing negotiations with SNCB on the new public service contract. New recruitments are provided for in function of that contract description. The equipment of the Securail agents is subject to periodic renewal. Certain equipment must comply with the conditions laid down by the Law regulating private and special safety. The choice of new equipment models is discussed in the occupational prevention and protection committees and gives rise to the implementation of tests on the ground with a panel of agents. That's what happens for the bulletproof vests, for example. The vast majority of the Committee P's recommendations are addressed to my colleague from the Interior, Mrs Verlinden. I also note that most of them are in line with the issues that the security services want to raise in the Private Security Association (PSA) in the Private Security Advisory Council. The limited number of recommendations addressed directly to SNCB, such as the introduction of a complaint management process, have already been implemented or are currently being analysed for further implementation. As far as the complaints procedure is concerned, I can tell you that there is a rigorous system for monitoring complaints. They are centralised within SNCB because they enter via different channels: Ombudsman, customer service, legal services or direct complaints via the address of the Corporate Security service. The complaints concerning Securail will in any event be dealt with by the Corporate Security Service which provides the person who lodged the complaint with a reply. The measures which SNCB can take in the short term have already been taken. This is the case, for example, with the recommendations on cooperation with police forces. The multidisciplinary working group of the Private Security Advisory Council seems to be the ideal forum for this. In addition, I refer to the discussions we had last month in this committee on train safety and the introduction of a discreet reporting system by WhatsApp or SMS for passengers who feel unsafe on the train. The development of this application is given priority within SNCB. Other measures include prevention campaigns, extra patrols of Securail and cameras on new trains. On the other hand, I believe that the recommendation for greater uniformity between the security services and more distinction between the services and the surveillance sector could already be followed. This subject was also discussed with the Home Office. I hope that all the recommendations will be responded to as soon as possible and that this year will take place in the interests of rail passengers and staff and their safety. However, as has already been said, most of it is addressed to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. However, I remain hungry. Advice has been requested, but we are waiting for that advice to be taken. It looks at the reorganisation of Securail. I refer to page 6 of the report, which shows that this reorganisation is not going so fast. It's about that sideways, though. You say the recommendations are being analysed. However, the problem of increasing violence and increasing crime within the railways has been on the increase for a long time. I have often talked about sexual or other forms of intimidation, verbal or physical aggression, phenomena such as black riding or vandalism, etc. I am very pleased with the work of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The monitoring investigation is very close to the mark and shows that the numerous initiatives that my party has already taken on this matter are more than justified and appropriate. On several occasions we have talked about the shortage of manpower, both at Securail and the railway police. I even tabled a motion for a resolution on Securail. The limited powers and defences of SNCB's security agents, the administrative procedures and the failing cooperation between the agents of Securail and the agents of the Railway Police and the need for more and better training are all not new. There is no serious and well thought-out, adequate policy in this area, with the necessary measures to ensure that rail passengers and railway staff can feel safe again both on the train and on the platforms and at the stations. In fact, it is your job as Minister of Mobility to work with your colleagues in the Interior and Justice to ensure that the fear changes. The perpetrators of acts of violence, the criminals must be caught and then punished severely and effectively. That's why I used to preach with Flemish Interest in the desert every time we sued new facts and asked for measures. Apart from the well-known triads of played indignation, expressing compassion and announcing half-measures, what has happened now and what is constantly to be waited for, very little happened and we dragged ourselves from incident to incident. All this makes me lose more and more trust. That is why I have tabled a motion of recommendation in response to the results and recommendations of the monitoring investigation of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services. I ask the government to take immediate and in consultation with the relevant actors the recommendations of the P Committee's monitoring report and to take immediate additional measures to improve cooperation between the SNCB security service and the police. Finally, I would also like to ask for additional measures which will give the Securail service more power.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u58	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Frank Toventors and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Frank Toventors and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - considering the government's mobility ambitions to encourage more people to take the train; - considering the importance of a sound and decisive safety policy in the rail sector to ensure the safety of both rail passengers and SNCB personnel; - considering the increasing extent to which facts of sexual or other harassment, black-driving, vandalism and physical and/or verbal aggression occur within the track; - considering the problems and concerns already raised by Securail personnel in the past; - considering the long-standing shortages within the staff framework of the Railway Police; asks the government - to take into account immediately and in consultation with the relevant actors the recommendations contained in the monitoring report of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services; - take additional and immediate measures to improve cooperation between the SNCB security service and the police forces; - take additional measures to increase the effectiveness of the Securail service.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Frank Troosters and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Frank Toventors and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Mobility, - in view of the government's ambitions in terms of mobility, in particular encouraging more of our citizens to take the train; - in view of the importance of an effective and firm safety policy in the rail sector, in order to ensure the safety of both rail users and SNCB personnel; - in view of the increase in the number of cases of sexual and other harassment, restlessness, vandalism and physical and/or verbal assault in the railway sphere; - in view of the problems and concerns that the personnel of Securail have already reported in the past; - in view of the long-standing shortcomings within the framework of railway police personnel; asks the government - to implement immediately and in consultation with the relevant actors the recommendations made in the monitoring report of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services; - to take immediate steps to improve cooperation between the SNCB security service and the police services; - to take additional measures to increase the power of action of the Securail service." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u59	Question No 55025817C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 55025838C and Question No 55025839C by Mr Josy Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the Franco-Belgian train line linking Tournai to Lille is used by many users, particularly because of its border situation and the presence on its way of the Institut Saint-Luc, a school frequented by many French students. These users decided to launch a petition deploring the quality of the service of railway line 94, which would be punctuated by a multitude of delays and train deletions, after a long period of work during which this line had been blocked. This petition, which brings together some 400 signatures, is addressed to the services of SNCB as well as to the services of SNCF. It aims to request that consistent train schedules be restored to the arrival and exit times of students and that measures be taken to ensure the quality of the line. Minister, what are your intentions in response to the requests of the users who signed this petition? Is there a plan to improve our train network for the Tournai-Lille line? More broadly, is monitoring carried out in collaboration with our neighbours on the quality of our cross-border railway lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u61	Mr Senesael, SNCB informs me that, from November to December 2021 and following extensive work on the French rail network, trains between Lille and Tournai were replaced by buses. At the end of the work, the trains were put back into service with a temporary adaptation of the timetables due to a prescribed slow-down at the level of the work carried out. The slowdown has led to a four-minute schedule adjustment, which can make a big difference. This slowdown was lifted in early January. Since then, the usual hours have been restored. In addition, in recent weeks, the Lille-Tournai line has been heavily affected by the lack of SNCF personnel affected by the covid pandemic. Operational agreements provide for assistance from SNCB staff in the event of a failure on the French side. This assistance was limited by the difficulties encountered on the SNCB side for these same reasons and by the technical specificity (the fact of driving on two networks of the service which reduces the staff with the ad hoc competence). Nevertheless, since the end of February, the situation has gradually normalised. A steering committee composed of the two railway companies is responsible for monitoring these services and analysing the measures to be taken to improve the quality of the offer. The work done on the line inevitably causes temporary inconveniences which I hope will be as short as possible. This is also the philosophy of the network manager, Infrabel. I was able to go to Tournai last November to visit the titanic works of complete renewal of the line between Tournai and Mouscron. I realize that the concomitant work from Tournai to Lille and Mouscron may have undermined the patience of the Tournaisis commuters. I would like to thank them for their patience because this work is essential for strengthening and improving the rail network. I have no doubt that, since then, they have enjoyed having a completely refurbished infrastructure since it was the will to do so and that is why the traffic has been interrupted for many months. We now have a line that is there for decades and that I fear, Mr Senesael, will survive us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u62	Minister, thank you for the explanation of your answer. As I am from Estaimpuis, which is located on the Mouscron-Tournai line, I can confirm the work that has been undertaken and the quality of these. However, this obviously disturbed the users, especially the Froyennes stop, considered for the Institut Saint-Luc in Tournai. Like you, I wish that all this will be part of the past and that the future will be brighter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic747x.u63	Minister, thank you, this concludes our question-and-answer session. We will set a future date to deal with the issues that could not be raised today.
