ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u1	The booster campaign is running like a train. Meanwhile, the wider population is vaccinated and more than 3 million Belgians have already received a booster vaccine in the light of the reduced efficacy of the vaccines after a certain period and the strong advance. You will not be surprised that my concern as a member of the Internal Affairs Commission goes, among other things, to the police and firefighters. They play a crucial role in our society. Day and night they work for safety, often even with danger to their own lives. Despite the telework obligation, they cannot do that from home. In other words, they're in the covid line every day. As our emergency services are so crucial in our society and as they also play a crucial role in the fight against the corona virus, we must do everything we can to protect them optimally from the consequences of the pandemic. After all, we have had to learn on several occasions that fire stations must temporarily close the gates because of too many infections among the staff or among the volunteers. A first and important way to protect them is to consider them as a priority target group in the ongoing third round of vaccination and in any subsequent vaccination campaigns. Will you work in the IMC Public Health to consider policemen and firefighters as a priority target group for the third corona prick and for possible repeat doses? Are you prepared to reconsider providing for a closed system of occupational diseases for covid police and fire brigades?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u2	Mr President, I refer to my questions. 55022954C, 55023093C, 55023269C, 55023319C and 55023453C.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u3	I would like to clarify a few more questions. The booster campaign was launched under impulse and after many questions from the N-VA Group. Are there currently a million shots a day? After all, the Corona Commissioner said that we could administer one million shots a day at the campaign peak. Since the Omikron variant is attacking our society at a rapid rate, it is important to quickly administer the booster vaccines. There is a small difference in efficiency between Pfizer and Moderna mRNA vaccines used for boosters. It has been chosen to first use up the stocks of the Moderna vaccine. However, in a publication, the Netherlands indicated that it chooses not to booster men under 45 years of age with the Moderna vaccine because of the higher prevalence of pericarditis. Is that what you're considering? At any rate, that is not the case at the moment, because one of my patients is at home with heart muscle inflammation after a Moderna shot. How do you see that? On what scientific basis will you continue to administer booster vaccines from Moderna? In Flanders, the campaign is being followed up very well. Despite the initial doubt, the people go for the third shot. However, we are once again establishing a vaccination gap between Flanders and Brussels. We see there for both the first and the second shot and now also for the third shot a much lower vaccination rate. How are you gonna do that? Have you prepared a scenario? As regards booster vaccination, the EEA had indicated that pricking could take place from an interval of three months. However, you have chosen for four months. That's an extra month we're losing anyway. In practice, there will be another month, so we will be talking in five months' time. You say that you have listened to the advice of the experts, but why was it advised to wait four months, when a period of three months was certainly scientifically explainable? With regard to Johnson & Johnson, we see that the combination with a booster of Pfizer would be less efficient. A number of studies have been published on this subject. Do you take that into account? In the meantime, have you monitored how many citizens have received this combination? You're gonna write down these civilians' serology? Are you taking care of that right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u4	Minister, the question is no longer fully relevant, but I wanted to have your views on the impact of this third dose on the Covid Safe Ticket (CST). This is a very important concept, particularly in the context of the debate we will have on compulsory vaccination or vaccination pass. It is important to clarify as quickly as possible the impact of the third dose on the CST, particularly in terms of the time between the second and third doses. Will the access of the CST to social life be affected by the third dose and, if so, within what time frame? It seems to me that there is also a need to give prospects for changing vaccines. Many today question the adaptation of the vaccine. What about future vaccines adapted to future variants or a universal vaccine? What are the prospects in this regard? Finally, I would like to point out that we are looking forward to the debate on compulsory vaccination and vaccination pass because we have all seen the influence of the vaccination pass on the increase in the number of vaccinations in France in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u5	Minister, it was decided in Antwerp a while ago, contrary to the decision of the Consultative Committee, to give teaching staff priority to a booster shot. It wasn't the first time that local governments did their own thing. Even in the first shots, some municipalities already gave priority to, for example, counsellors of youth associations or even people from the technical services of municipalities. This causes a lot of discontent among the target groups for which no exceptions are made in other municipalities, but in the case of Antwerp, for example, also among teachers from other municipalities, who were angry because they were not given priority. Mr Minister, we are certainly not doing it, but it may be that a fourth shot is also needed and that the problem will arise again. What is your position on local authorities and vaccination centres starting to set their own priorities, for whatever reason? What would be the consequences if each vaccination centre were to start to do its own thing at some point? Perhaps it is also worth considering just dropping all the priorities in another campaign. There are already voices to organise open days. Maybe that's also a piste to consider. My question is a little different from the question I submitted, because it dates from a while ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u6	Madam President, Minister, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes to you. This new year is an opportunity to come back to one of the major commitments or, in any case, one of your major statements last year. Indeed, in October 2021, you had the honesty to tell the population that it was going to have to be vaccinated again in 2022 and 2023. At the time, an annual booster dose was expected, as is the case for seasonal influenza. At the end of December, however, we learned that Germany had ordered nearly eighty million doses of a vaccine specifically aimed at omicron, which is due to arrive next spring, just after the third dose. Germany is also said to have ordered nearly four million doses of the Novavax vaccine, which has been approved urgently by the World Health Organization, and is expected to be delivered in January. There would also be eleven million doses of the newcomer Valneva, who is still awaiting approval from the European authorities. France announces the first injections of the Novovax vaccine in early February. In Israel, the government has recently expanded the administration of the fourth dose of vaccine to include over 60 years of age and medical personnel. At home, Flanders sought the opinion of the Higher Council of Health on the advisability of a fourth dose of vaccine for people whose immune system is weakened and who received their third dose in October or even September, but also for residents of health centres. Minister, is this fourth dose a basic vaccination supplement or a booster? What is the difference between the two? What is the real added value of the fourth dose, given that people over 65 years of age who have received their third dose have 95% less risk of being in intensive care? Can you provide an overview of current vaccine orders for our country? By which channel are they ordered? Are these orders made by Belgium or are they orders grouped at European level? What are the delivery times? How is it that a Region can take the initiative alone to request an opinion on the injection of a fourth dose when it concerns the whole country, as is the case with the booster dose for the 12-17 year-olds? Should such crucial issues not be the subject of a concerted approach within the Interdepartmental Health Conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u7	Those who have not yet asked questions will be given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u8	Madam President, I would like to join the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u9	The colleague of the Flemish Interest will also take the floor during the replies. I shall now give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u10	Madam President, I will be able to answer a number of questions together and relatively briefly, because they have now been somewhat overtaken by evolution. These are both questions about the priority groups and questions about the progress of the booster campaign. Mr. Demon, you mentioned police and fire department. We chose in the Inter-Ministerial Conference not to work with priority groups based on their professional status. We have decided to invite people according to their vulnerability, i.e. the extent to which the booster is useful. First of all, we gave priority to people who live in residential care centres and then to the elderly outside the residential care centres and the elderly. In this way we have descended in terms of age, where priority was given on the basis of age. I'll give you the criteria to be bossed. The person concerned had to have had a Janssen vaccine at least two months ago or a second dose of AstraZeneca or Pfizer at least four months ago. We have been holding on to that schedule for a long time now. We considered this scheme to be better than giving priority to this or that professional group. We had difficulty explaining this in the context in which we found ourselves, especially when we knew that omikron was coming and we had indications that the booster was particularly useful, even in the case of an omikron wave. It was difficult to explain that, for example, a 35-year-old police officer would take precedence over a 57-year-old who is pursuing another profession. Perhaps the 57-year-old needs a booster more than the 35-year-old, even if the 35-year-old is a policeman. So we worked on these conditions, namely four months after the primary vaccination course or two months after that in the case of a Janssen vaccine, and then age. However, because the campaign ran very smoothly and was well organised, we quickly found ourselves in a situation where people could register to be called up more quickly. There are already vaccination centres, such as smaller vaccination centres in Brussels, where people can walk in like this. If you call the central number of the call centre in Brussels or Wallonia, you can get a booster if you meet the conditions. The campaign is indeed running like a train. The question of giving priority to certain professions is in fact somewhat outdated and no longer on the agenda. In addition, it has always been said that the vaccination campaign and all vaccination centres should respect the priority on the basis of age. In the Consultation Committee and the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, it has once been said that it is not a problem for teachers to be vaccinated quickly. Parallel traces can be developed for that. However, this should not hinder the first priority, namely age-based vaccination. If that doesn't happen, there's no problem. It is up to individual vaccination centres to ensure that they respect that instruction. In particular, it is the Community ministers who have the first hand in what is happening in the vaccination centres in terms of organisation. I'm assuming they'll watch over that, too. The idea of this priority is therefore somewhat out of date. The campaign for inviting people and putting the booster shot runs even faster than we had planned at some point. By the end of January, when we had knocked off the general schedule, we provided the bulk of the adult Belgians who had had the primary vaccination. In February and March, 1.1 million people would follow. At that moment we must have invited most of the Belgians, if things continue to run as they do. In Flanders, it certainly will be. After the end of January, we won't have any more invitations to send. So our campaign is running faster in terms of pace than what we had initially foreseen, but I would point out immediately that there are indeed doubts and hesitation and that a number of people do not respond to the invitation or do not rendezvous. There is more hesitation around the booster than around the primo vaccination, which we still see a little bit. So, in a way, it is a great success, but we are not quite where we need to be. Mrs Depooster, you asked a question about the Moderna vaccine used as a booster and used the Pfizer vaccine as a booster. The Moderna vaccine has a different dosage. I think you said that yourself, by the way. I brought the data. The Moderna vaccine has 0.25 milliliters in its booster containing 50 micrograms of messenger RNA, which is half of what the Moderna vaccine contains for primo vaccination. The Moderna vaccine has a heavier dose for primo vaccination than Pfizer, which contains 30 micrograms of messenger RNA for primo vaccination. Moderna was a much heavier dose and even the booster of Moderna, which is actually a halving in terms of the amount of messenger RNA versus the Moderna used for primo vaccination, contains more messenger RNA in microgram terms than the Pfizer vaccine. However, on the basis of the data we have and the considerations we make, we have seen no reason to say that Moderna should not be given to certain groups. We believe that the benefit of Moderna, including its booster, outweighs any risk. You referred to heart muscle inflammation, if I'm getting it right. Indeed, there is evidence that this could be a side effect. It is not considered a very serious condition. It is a condition for which one has to pay attention and which one has to take care of, but one does not consider that side effect to be one of the most dangerous. It exists, of course, and one has to be careful with it. I say this from memory, I have to pay some attention to what I say, but I believe that some studies have shown that young people who have not been vaccinated are more likely, inter alia, to have heart muscle inflammation by covid than people who have been vaccinated. So when we took stock of benefits and side effects, and I stress that this needs to be checked and verified, because I say it out of my mind, there was no reason for us to restrict the use of Moderna. We had Moderna offered because we had it in stock at that time. We could best use that stock and offer Moderna in a number of places. That's how it went, very briefly. Mr Bacquelaine, your question about the CST is important. I believe that there will be a moment when the booster will be a decisive one to get the green light on the basis of vaccination. No specific date has yet been set because it is also a European approach. This may take a few weeks before the CST is adapted and citizens are required to receive the booster dose to get the green light on the basis of vaccination. That seems logical to me in the current context. Indeed, the effectiveness of basic vaccination to avoid hospitalizations and serious diseases seems to decrease sharply after a few months. Therefore, if the booster significantly enhances protection, it seems to me logical that receiving the booster becomes a requirement for the vaccination certificate that is included in the CST. In responding to Ms Depoorter, I think I answered your questions about the dose of Pfizer booster compared to Moderna. The dose of the Moderna booster is half as low as for the basic vaccination, while for Pfizer the dosage is the same. However, the amount of messenger RNA used in Moderna vaccine remains higher than that used in Pfizer vaccine. With regard to the fourth dose, Mrs Rohonyi, you rightly pointed out that first of all it is necessary to clarify the terminology and the content of the question. People with low immunity – for example, due to oncological treatment, chronic kidney failure, etc. – were the first to receive a third dose. To tell you the truth, technically speaking, he wasn't a booster. It was a third dose necessary to achieve an immune effect that can be expected for other people after two doses. In fact, it was a matter of strengthening their basic scheme. Therefore, it is only the fourth dose that is the true booster for them. Logically, it can be said that it is still time, because it was after the summer holidays that it was undertaken. So it took time. The question was therefore put to the Higher Council of Health. We also asked him for his opinion on a booster for young people aged 12 to 17, a category in which the European Medicines Agency has not yet granted authorisation. In the meantime, we have therefore interviewed the Higher Council of Health. I believe that the Council will provide us with an opinion that will add a little to the picture for young people and immunocompromised people. I also believe that the Council will inform us of what it thinks about the general population. Of course, there is now the announcement that Pfizer will produce a vaccine adapted to the omicron variant in March. Maybe we'll get doses in April. Actually, it's too late for this fifth wave. I think we have to tell people that we don't have to wait. It should not be said that we prefer the vaccine against the omicron variant. No, you really have to get the booster. I think this message is important. Perhaps there is a misunderstanding, a little confusion created by the fact that we are waiting for a suitable vaccine. I think we need to tell people that we need to get the booster dose now. It also refers to Mr Bacquelaine's question. I believe, Mr Bacquelaine, that for that reason it will be legitimate, at some point, to say that if you received the booster with the existing vaccine, you have a green light on your Covid Safe Ticket. Maybe some more data. I believe that Mr. Bacquelaine referred to analyses conducted by Moderna, which indicate that the half dose of Moderna multiplies by 37 the level of neutralizing antibodies. As far as Pfizer is concerned, Pfizer indicated, already on 8 December, that a third dose of its vaccine multiplies the level of neutralizing antibodies by 25 times. But as you probably know, the experts tell us that we need to be careful, because what is observed at the antibody level is not a sufficient indication to decide on the impact on protection. It's a little more complicated. I therefore believe that all we need to remember is that both Moderna and Pfizer are, in terms of booster, effective vaccines and that they must be used now. Mrs Rohonyi, as a federal minister, I expect a series of opinions and views from the Higher Health Council to determine how to move forward in the booster campaign. I have just received new figures and I would like to return to them. Mrs Depoorter, the figure of 1 million a week seems difficult to reach; nevertheless, I believe that the campaign is working well. Things are even going a little faster than expected at the beginning. Madam President, there are the answers to the questions put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. My question is indeed partly outdated, but we must also, of course, look at subsequent vaccinations. You are right for 100 %, if you say that the QVAX list worked smoothly, because that list enabled people in some vaccination centres to be helped quickly. However, I would like to point out that in certain vaccination centres, without mentioning them by name, things are not going so smoothly. In some vaccination centres, 40-plussers have not even been invited. With the omikron variant, a very large infection wave is predicted. In this context, we must ensure that people who are responsible for our safety are also vaccinated. If everything goes smoothly, I'll give you exactly what you say about the QVAX list. A course may be set aside for people exercising a safety profession. Vaccination centres where administration is slower may need to be reviewed. For the rest, I fully agree with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u12	Minister, you say that everyone in Flanders will have been invited by the end of January. That's right. This means that everyone will have received the booster by mid-February. That's a month after the peak is expected. It might have been better to get started faster. You did not answer my question about Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u13	I did lose sight of that for a while. It is more difficult in Brussels, which is a cause for concern. I do not think this is really due to the commitment of the Brussels administration and the Brussels Minister for Health. The stakes are large, but it's not that easy. There is still a great work of conviction to be done. The positive news is that 80% of the 65-plussers in Brussels have been boosted. That's important, isn't it? However, there is only one third of the adult population in Wallonia and half of the adult population, where in Flanders it is around 60%. That is indeed a cause for concern. That could explain why there are more hospitalizations in Brussels. We're not sure this is due to omikron, but it could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u14	It is a reason for concern, you say, but it has been for two years. It is a recurring problem that needs to be addressed and that could be steered. Half a dose of Moderna contains 25 micrograms mRNA and a full dose of Pfizer contains 30 micrograms mRNA. So there's a little less mRNA in half a dose of Moderna.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u15	I did compare Moderna to Pfizer. Half a dose of Moderna vaccine contains more mRNA (measured in micrograms) than a full dose of Pfizer vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u16	Minister, I thought it was 25 micrograms in the Moderna vaccine and 30 micrograms in the Pfizer vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u17	No, half a dose of Moderna vaccine contains 50 micrograms mRNA and a full dose of Pfizer vaccine contains 30 micrograms mRNA. So it's still more.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u18	Mr Minister, you do not think that heart muscle inflammation is so serious, but of course it leads again to absence at work. We're in the omikron wave. You are drawing up contingency plans to ensure that our companies can continue to work. Heart muscle inflammation gives patients a very bizarre feeling. They're incompetent. It might be time to think about it and, just like the Netherlands, to plead for the Pfizer boosters to be given to the younger people, especially the men. The Moderna Boosters can then be administered to people over 45 years of age, because they work a little better with them. I understand that at the beginning of the booster campaign you chose to use up the stocks as quickly as possible and not to wait for new deliveries. However, if we have a stock of both vaccines today, it seems best to look at the scientific evidence. The College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in the Netherlands is composed of scientists. Our experts certainly have contacts with that college and could build on their advice. In your opinion, it is difficult to administer 1 million boosters per week. I told you that. You indicated before the recess that the government had approved the vaccination by pharmacists at second reading. However, that is still not a fact. Perhaps the pharmacists could have closed the gap to 1 million boosters a week. Why is this arrangement still not in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u19	That is because the opinion of the Council of State was not yet available. We still have to process the opinion of the Council of State before we adopt it at second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, to which I fully subscribe. I think that, indeed, from the moment that all adults have had the opportunity to receive the third dose, it makes sense to incorporate this third dose into the Covid Safe Ticket, and possibly even into a future vaccination pass. I think there is a real logic in this approach and in what you are advocating. However, it must be made clear that once everyone has had the opportunity to have a third dose, this third dose will have to be integrated into the Covid Safe Ticket, or even into a future vaccine pass. In my opinion, this is a way to stimulate third dose adherence and the decision to receive this third dose. I think we all have a collective interest in ensuring that the maximum number of people in our country receive this third dose as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u21	Minister, we can say that the vaccination campaign in our country is a success in general. That is also apparent from the figures. This is also due to the good cooperation between the different levels of government, including local authorities, but we cannot deny that there are regions where there is still some work to be done. I realize that's very difficult. I also have a number of people in my circle of friends who are very opposed to vaccination. In my case, at least these people usually make a probability calculation. I've just received a calculation from one of those people who came to the conclusion that he has a 1 in 35,000 chance of dying of corona, and that's why he doesn't think it's worth being vaccinated. I notice that the stories of many people who refuse a vaccine usually go in that way. It's fucking hard to convince those people. That is why I am convinced that we must continue to focus on communication. I thought that Steven Van Gucht's presence at the last press conference was an enormous added value and I think that we should do more. For example, scientists with facts and figures can show the difference between someone who has been vaccinated and someone who has not been vaccinated. Especially for those who work with probability calculations, that seems to me to be a huge added value. We must therefore continue to focus on communication in order to convince the last percentage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. We are therefore waiting for this famous opinion of the Higher Council of Health. Do you have any idea when we'll be able to get to know about it? In the event that it is positive, we should act quickly and be logistically ready, since there will then be a simultaneous administration of the third and fourth doses to different age groups. And then, this fourth dose seems to me to be a number of problems. First of all, I wonder how effective it is with regard to its timing. Wouldn't she be injected too late? Indeed, all experts agree that it must be administered in anticipation of a problematic season, i.e. before winter. The question then arises of the public's perception of the usefulness of the vaccine. You yourself evoke a great hesitation relative to this third dose. Similarly, in my surroundings, I see people who hesitate or even hesitate to receive it. According to them, if the vaccine were so effective, a booster dose every four months would be unnecessary. Looking at Sciensano's figures, I note that, among those over 85, 90% received the first two doses, while only 79% received the third. Of course, it is premature to compare a vaccination campaign that lasts for more than a year and the one that started for the third dose, only a month ago. This lack of pedagogy requires an effort to communicate with the entire population, a large part of which – and not just the antivax, as we tend to say too often – expresses doubts. You tell us that the CST will soon be included in the third dose. However, as with Sciensano's figures, I note that the under-25s have not yet been summoned. When will they be? Indeed, we know that they need the certificate to benefit from their freedom and engage in various activities. There is also the issue of vaccine solidarity. Today we are talking about a fourth dose, even though, in the poorest countries, the first dose has not yet been given. As long as they are not vaccinated, the virus will continue to circulate and thus bring out new variants. Hence the importance of our debate on the temporary lifting of patents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u23	Minister, I am a little surprised that you have answered questions about vaccination and the third injection, because I have heard you say very often throughout the whole test debate that prevention is not your competence. Apparently, you don't want to pay back the tests of asymptomatic individuals. Now you have answered questions about the third injection, the arguments are apparently used when it is convenient. I would also like to comment on the way in which the debate is taking place here. You seem to forget that this is a global pandemic. Our strategy to focus only on vaccination and less and less on testing is a total failure. At the end of last year, Mr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the Director-General of the WHO, said: "No country can boost its way out of the pandemic." We can give one dose, two doses, now a third dose, and soon a fourth dose, that will certainly happen, but as long as there is no global approach to the pandemic, and there is vaccination in the pandemic, there will always be new variants and it will never end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u24	Minister, you think it is logical that after the booster shot the green check mark is given on the CST. In the meantime, it should be logical for the CST to be abolished, because it serves nothing. It doesn't prove someone's infectiousness, just like a vaccination certificate doesn't prove it. So what's the point of keeping the CST alive? On the contrary, the fourth wave proved that it has no added value throughout the coviddebacle. I have also referred several times to the study of antibodies and immunity following an infection. No figures on seroprevalence have been provided on the Sciensano website since May or June. Why? You said just now in your reply to a question from Mr Rohonyi that antibodies do not say anything about the infection. That's true, but a vaccination certificate doesn't say anything about anyone's infectiousness. You're gonna go on with that, aren't you? Why is nothing happening to the antibody study? Why shouldn't we know how many percent of the population have antibodies, how many percent of the population have experienced the infection, and so, of course, whether vaccination has antibodies or is immune to the disease? That you don't start anything with that is a missed opportunity, especially for the future. Yesterday I even asked you how many shots we should get. If the needle is finished after two or three months, the vulnerable and the weak will have to be vaccinated again. Does that apply again to the whole population? Think about it, including your experts. You might intend to change your mind in the new year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u25	I realise, Minister, that the question is already of a rather blessed age. She dates from November 26, 2021. That is not, of course, your fault, but the work of the committee, I fear. On 26 November 2021, following the meeting of the Consultation Committee of the same day, the Prime Minister announced that so-called walk-in testing centres would be opened in an attempt to relieve the first line. A number of questions I have to ask have therefore become very pro forma, given the date of submission. However, I will put them for the record and for the report. Mr Minister, I would like to know the following from you. How many walk-ins have already been started or will be started? When will they all be operational? I trust you will provide me with the answers to the questions about the locations in writing. I won't do it to you to list them all. Are they all operational at the moment? Can you give me more information on the geographical distribution, the cost of the tests and the tests that will be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u26	Madam President, Minister, with the omicron variant, we are now in the middle of the fifth wave. The government's management of the crisis raises enormous questions. They have already been discussed yesterday, but I think it is nevertheless important to address them again. Today we are faced with a feeling of inconsistency. Indeed, on December 21st, you decided to close the entire sector of culture because of the wave of omicron, and a few days later you decided to cancel almost all quarantine and testing measures. On the one hand, there has been a major tightening by taking a measure which, as everyone knows, has been annulled by the Council of State. On the other hand, you have decided to relax certain measures. In doing so, one can only think that Vivaldi is not very attentive to culture, but that it is listening to the FEB who had requested the lifting of quarantine. However, with this lifting of quarantine, the virus is likely to increase. You know like me that with the delta variant, 20% of people who had had high-risk contact were tested positive. However, the omicron variant appears to be much more contagious. In addition, it is well known that many people with covid are asymptomatic. The decisions taken therefore raise questions. But it must be noted that when the FEB makes a request, the government dances. I'm not the one saying it. I refer here to a press release issued by the FGTB on 5 January. Today, all workers who are infected in their workplaces or who are afraid of being infected are fed up. In the field, people are worried. Minister, why did you accept the request from the FEB? Furthermore, if you decide to relax the quarantine measures and if you do not want to see an increase in the transmission of the virus, it would be logical to increase testing. And how do we increase the number of tests without overloading the first line and laboratories? It is thanks to a tool that we currently have, namely self-tests. We could use them massively. However, once again, you have taken the decision not to reimburse these self-tests despite the proposal of experts and some parties, such as the PTB and Ecolo-Groen. I didn't understand that choice. On the one hand, we were able to read in the report of the Corona police station that you were afraid that the auto-tests would be removed from the supermarkets. My question on this point is clear: have you given in to the supermarket lobby? On the other hand, another argument that came to the table in the last few days was a skill story. In the fifth wave of the covid crisis, you started a community dispute about who was going to pay for the tests. You say that it is up to the Communities to bear this cost because it is prevention. Also, when you look at the new reimbursement criteria, you are not reimbursed when you do not have symptoms. You consider that the curative is paid by the federal government but that, for the rest, the Communities draw their plan - or even the local authorities, but they do not have the means to do so. In the meantime, it is the parents, among others, but also the people who have to go to their place of work, who go there fear in the belly not having the possibility to telework, the fear of getting infected, the fear of infecting other people. All this will ensure that the virus will circulate even more. A Nieuwsblad survey has even revealed that where it is advisable to test children once a week before going to school, only 8% of parents consider it. It is clear that this is an important cost for large families: EUR 3.50 a test. This easily amounts to hundreds of euros a day, not to mention having to be tested also when you have had contacts at risk. Why did you start this community dispute? Why didn't you just decide to fight the transmission of the virus by not loading the caregivers more, by stimulating self-tests, as is done in other countries? This wasn't the time to get into such a fight. When it comes to the omicron variant and the fifth wave, why does it always take a code to pass a covid test? Why not draw inspiration from other countries? A friend of mine went to Berlin during the holidays. You can enter a testing centre, have you tested and get out a quarter of an hour later, with the result. Why is the Belgian testing policy so restrictive? Finally, what are you planning to support hospitals by the end of the month, given the severe increase in the fifth wave? We can therefore expect an increase - or even a likely peak - in hospitalizations, especially with regard to your quarantine decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u27	Mr Minister, yesterday, Monday 10 January 2022, a number of things have already been said in the joint committee. We're in the fifth wave right now. We knew it was coming. We've been in a pandemic for two years. I've often questioned you about the resilience of care. In one of my questions, No. 55023591C, I asked you whether you would optimise the capacity of intensive care. I refer to the health buddies, the intensive care buddies, which I have talked about many times. Yesterday I could not fully hear your answer, because there was also a ship's college at the time, but I heard that you referred to the fact that some primary nurses were trained to be intensive care buddies, that care professionals are also trained for other simple nursing duties. What I have not heard is how you will deal with this structuralally. What's your plan? How will you ensure that we have more hands on the bed in times of crisis, so that we can switch. For example, we can use primary nurses in intensive care departments so that they can assist specialized nurses. Then we can use care professionals in a normal corridor so that the primary nurses there can be assisted. What is your concrete plan to ensure that administrative nursing staff are employed at the beds of patients at times of crisis? These are all questions in which I remain hungry and for which, after two years of crisis, I would very much like to hear concrete measures from you. If I did not hear it correctly yesterday, I think it is important enough to explain it again today. The organisation of care, as indicated by every healthcare professional, is currently not optimal, and certainly not adapted to a crisis. I also heard your answer about the virus inhibitors. You have said that you will consider how they will be given. Well, both Paxlvid and Lagrevio......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You didn't refer to it yesterday, but you would normally distribute it through the hospital pharmacy. However, we all know that hospitals will be overwhelmed when a new wave arrives and that just than the flow of patients is very important. Then how do you explain that there would be no consideration of distributing these virus inhibitors via the pharmacy, the home pharmacy? That is what happens to the HIV inhibitors, by the way. These are antivirals, virus inhibitors, anti-HIV cocktails. The pharmacist is therefore used to dealing with such medicines and can guide the patients in doing so. I had also put a question about travelling. In a communication from the WHO this afternoon, Hans Kluge predicts that half of Europe will be infected with omikron by the end of March. That will have a very big impact. Are there any plans to take certain measures at European level? Have you planned a consultation with your colleagues on this? This weekend one could go hiking on the Meir, but could not go to the fieldcross in Middelkerke. These are matters which are very difficult to explain to our citizens and to patients and which, moreover, cannot be conducive to the circulation of the virus. Will a certain uniformity be advocated by the Belgian Government in dealing with the crisis? Moreover, I have not yet heard your plan B for the omikron crisis. That's what worries me. There has been much to do in the press, and I understand that it is not an easy decision, but what plans have you already made? You often talk about emergency plans, but what if there are not enough beds? How will you solve that? Are you working on that? Are you talking to the hospitals about that? There has been a lot to do about the tests and self-tests. I have already asked questions about this before the recess, in particular about the validation of Omikron. What test can Omikron detect and which one can't? I have the impression that this is not so much controlled by the FAGG. As a pharmacist, as soon as Omikron was involved, I myself asked my manufacturers for a certificate that answers the question of whether Omikron can be detected with the test. I also received the certificate. I understand that with every test there are possibilities of false negative results. Some of the self-tests that are not working properly are now mentioned in the press. How do you handle this communication? After all, we know that self-tests are still a good triage agent. They are not conclusive, but they will strangle and will surely indicate highly contagious persons as being positive. They will therefore ensure that the latter persons are quarantined or are sure to receive the signal that they should be quarantined. What instructions did you give the FAGG, to do the check thoroughly? In the meantime, is there an extra check on the package leaflets and the packaging, in order to check that everything is all right with Belgian legislation? I would have liked to know about you as well. By when will you have a ruling on the way of testing? We know scientifically that Omikron is in the throat before and that a combined test, being self-test and antigen test, would be better. The FAGG has communicated that the current self-tests should not be subject to throat scraping. When will we be able to decide on this? How will the patients deal with that? In the pharmacy the best application will certainly be explained very clearly. What guidelines will you give to the supermarkets, which are also large distributors of the self-tests, so that patients know what is expected of them? In the meantime, have the controls, which should be carried out by the FAGG, removed self-testing from the market? Are there or are there not complaints about less qualitative self-tests? Debates of the European Parliament 55023740C is about Omikron and children. An American study shows some concern. There is talk of a recording level of 1.7 % to 4.1 %, which is higher than in the previous waves. That may cause some concern. When we look at our figures, we see that babies are being recorded more quickly. We do not yet have a ruling as to whether this is due to the fact that one is more cautious or not. What is your communication strategy in view of the concern about the recording of children? What steps have you already taken, should omikron cause more child recordings? Omikron is a rapidly spreading variant and the situation can change from today to tomorrow. Did you consult with the pediatrists? Have you provided extra beds? With regard to the relaxation of the testing strategy, I would like to know its risk analysis. That's what I'm worried about. I understand that the measure was taken for fear that there would not be sufficient capacity. That you do not have all the infections in the statistics, the N-VA has slightly less problems. We have long argued in favour of communicating to citizens in terms of occupied hospital beds and IZ beds. Above all, it remains important for people to isolate themselves. How will you guarantee that citizens comply with the guidelines, test themselves and be careful for their fellow human beings, in addition to the fact that you are hoping for their civic spirit? How do you estimate that? Do you foresee that the pharmacists will take PCR tests? I hear there's still some testing capacity at the clinical labs. Do you foresee PCR collection at the pharmacy or not? That could solve the problem of the repair certificate after the antigen test, which you do not want to modify. If a patient receives a PCR test immediately after a positive antigen test, you will be fine with European rules. Of course, in terms of efficiency, that is not really an optimal issue. Mr Minister, are you prepared, like the Netherlands, to attach the certificate of recovery to the positive antigen test, even if it is for domestic use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u28	I also submitted my question a while ago, especially in the week after we were alerted from South Africa about the existence of a new COVID-19 variant, the omikron variant. Then we were told that it would be much more contagious, but less sickening than the delta variant, but at the same time there was also the suspicion that the vaccines would work less well against that variant. In the meantime, it turns out that all this isn't so bad. Even more so, protection against contamination appears to be encouraging. We also saw this in Steven Van Gucht's presentation at the press conference, where he showed that the booster vaccine provides 3 times less infections and still offers a 40 percent protection after 10 weeks. The vaccines do indeed protect against infection and those who are not infected cannot infect others either. Anyone who claims that the vaccines do not reduce contamination will distribute incorrect information, which will not help public health either. Not only does that tell Steven Van Gucht: I also saw a study by the UK Health Security Agency, which comes to the same results. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that the new variant will present us with new and major challenges. Given the higher infectiousness, the test capacity becomes an important element, but we must not forget that because of the higher infectiousness, hospitals can be put under higher pressure. A virus that is less sickening but more contagious can still cause a great deal of pressure in absolute numbers. Meanwhile, the testing strategy has been adapted, which seems logical to me. We heard Steven Van Gucht predict up to 125,000 infections a day. Given that the positivity ratio is currently about 25%, that would mean we would have had to run 500,000 tests a day if no adjustment had been made. Is there a plan to increase the test capacity if, despite the modified test policy, the current capacity is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u29	Madam President, Minister, like some of my colleagues, I would like to go back to the decision of the last Codeco, which has not finally adopted any new measures since telework remains four days out of five, whereas GEMS advocated telework five days out of five. The measure of two hundred people for public events remains in place, while the cultural sector logically asked to take into account the size of the halls. As for the long-awaited barometer, it is still not known whether it will eventually allow for an increase in these gauges, since one evokes a barometer that would involve a possible lowering of the CO2 ceilings, regardless of the capacity to replace the air, despite investments in air capture devices. On the other hand, many countries have simply abandoned this barometer because they considered it too frozen, adapting poorly to the new parameters, in particular the arrival of new variants. Another much-anticipated barometer is mental health. In this regard, the Union professionnelle des psychologistes cliniciens francophones, which advises GEMS, has made this request several times, each time in vain. Thus, very little concrete evidence has emerged from this Codeco, while a peak of hospitalizations is expected at the end of this month. Minister, why have the GEMS guidelines for 100% telework not been followed? Will the announced barometer incorporate the proportionality claimed by the cultural sector, in particular with regard to the capacity gauge and the lowering of CO2 levels? What will be the concrete added value of this future barometer? Under what criteria will its effectiveness be measured? Will it have a dynamic dimension? For what types of measures? Which sectors will they be affected? Why was the suggestion for a mental health barometer not retained? In the light of the difficulties encountered in the decision-making process of the latest Codeco that you have recognized, would it not be necessary to systematically assess its decisions and, above all, to involve Parliament in them? Finally, can we hope that, in parallel with the latter Codeco, work is now under way to manage the fifth wave in an optimal manner, with all its consequences for the citizens? If so, which ones? I now turn to the follow-up to the recommendations on self-tests. The Codeco endorsed the decisions of the Restricted Ministerial Council, i.e. to carry out self-tests every day for about 40 days, but also to invite parents to test their children every week. We can understand the preventive logic of these self-tests, except that they ask questions. First, they are available both in large areas and in pharmacies, with twice the price in supermarkets. However, the pharmacy channel offers valuable advice, which is non-existent in the case of large-scale purchases. Secondly, while low-income people can obtain two self-tests per week per family member for one euro self-test, these tests nevertheless represent a potential cost to other households, which is added to those of masks, gels, tests, especially for large or single-parent families. Third, these self-tests would be ineffective at the beginning of contamination once in two. This is evident from a KUL study. Finally, membership was very good at the end of the year, but it would be less so today in the case of regular use, especially by schoolchildren. Minister, why was the sale of auto-tests in supermarkets finally authorized? For what reason has the setting of these prices not been regulated, as in France for example, where pharmacists cannot sell the self-test at more than €5.2? Competition and the vast offer of self-tests has brought down prices in pharmacies but pharmacists remain free to set prices – up to 8 euros today. Do you confirm that the purchase of these self-tests is a Community competence? It is today contested by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, which rightly believes that the federal government must intervene. Are the entities entitled to expect support from the federal government through a cooperation agreement? Should not the use of these tests be reserved for more specific cases and better explained to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u30	Minister, I have questions about the self-tests in the schools. There is a strong recommendation for parents of school children to test their children at least once a week. That's gonna be a precious business for a lot of families. The question of making the tests available free of charge fell on a cold stone with the Flemish Minister of Education. This does not improve the situation for families who are just outside the increased reimbursement. I know that questions about figures are better put in writing, but I would like to get a global picture. Last year it was decided that people with an increased refund would get the tests for 1 euro. How much did that cost in 2021? What amounts are we talking about here? How many people could buy these tests for 1 euro? If we made any more promotions, how much would this cost at federal level? You say that it is up to the Länder to pay the bill because this is prevention. However, in 2020 we distributed free mouth masks through pharmacists. Has that track been considered to provide free self-tests to more people? I'm not saying this should be for everyone, but at least for parents of school children. Was that piste considered? Was it calculated how much it would cost to make available to parents with school children from now until the end of the school year a test per week for 1 euro or free?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u31	Mrs Fonck wishes to take the floor during the replies. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will address the various questions together and structure my answer. Allow me first of all to say that I answered several questions yesterday in the Committee on the Interior. There is therefore a repetition of the work. Answers to questions which I addressed in detail yesterday, such as the latest Consultation Committee, will not be repeated in detail today. Mrs Rohonyi, the questions you asked were also raised yesterday in Home Affairs. So I am not going to repeat in extenso what I said yesterday. I'm going to synthesize. I'll answer the questions about the test strategy first. Mr de Caluwe asked an important question, which should perhaps be the first question. If we are concerned about the test capacity and because of these concerns decide to temporarily test only symptomatic people, while people with high risk contact should use a self-test, can we avoid this situation by increasing the test capacity? The answer is no. A distinction should be made between the analytical capacity in the laboratories and the capacity to decrease. The analytical capacity in the labs includes roughly 140,000 PCR tests per day. We have added the possibility of having rapid antigen tests carried out on pharmacists, the maximum of which is about 40,000 per day. In total, 160,000 to 180,000 tests are possible daily. However, with regard to PCR tests, there is another bottleneck, namely the reduction capacity. The tests must be carried out, which is a matter of human hands. As soon as we get close to, roughly estimated, 110,000 to 120,000 daily tests to be taken, we know from experience that the system starts to crack, it starts to run badly. We know we're gonna run into trouble. Since this is a question of human deployment, which may become increasingly difficult in the coming weeks, as these people are also suffering from illness and fatigue, we have said preventively, given the suspected wave of infection, that PCR testing capacity is being used as a priority for people with symptoms. This in itself is not optimal, because it is necessary to choose between two ailments, namely that people with high risk contact no longer follow PCR tests or that the symptomatic people no longer follow. We gave priority to following the latter group. That's a temporary decision. To be honest, I do not see much alternative. This is highly unsatisfactory, but I see few alternatives. We then immediately decided to use self-tests for the people to whom we say they should still be quarantined. They may be quarantined on the basis of daily self-testing until the end of their quarantine period, i.e. after 10 days for a person who has not been vaccinated and after 7 days for a person who has had the primary vaccination but has not been boosted and whose primary vaccination has been carried out for some time. They should not go that far, i.e. 10 or 7 days of quarantine, but may be out earlier on the basis of self-tests. I admit that we are appealing to people's own responsibility there. We think that people have found their way to the self-tests, but we call on our own responsibility. There are a lot of questions here and I will answer them relatively briefly. First I deal with the question of whether the self-tests are good enough and whether we are better tested with throat or nose wipers. Then I come to the questions about the price of the self-tests. As a responsible minister, I think, first of all, that I should be particularly careful and not say that one should use self-testing in the throat. They weren't designed for that. More importantly, the European certification they enjoy is based on the fact that they are used in the nose. It would not be very sensible, not to say lightly, to say, as a competent minister, that they may be used in a way other than that indicated by the manufacturer. This has been notified by the manufacturer to the competent authority on the basis of which the European CE certificate was granted. In fact, we should not deviate from that. Apart from that, there is an applied scientific debate. I refer to Professor Guy Hans, who was in the news yesterday. He's completed a project on throat wipers, which he's also kept me informed about. In the case of omikron, it could be argued that if one could use a throat wiper in an efficient way for a PCR test, this would detect an infection with omikron well. Manually, however, this is very cumbersome and not useful on a large scale. Other tests, which are intended to take themselves from the throat or from the saliva, such as the famous lollipops, are completely unreliable according to Guy Hans. All that remains are PCR tests with a custom throat wiper, but they are absolutely not usable on a large scale. The self-tests we offer on a large scale serve to be used in the nose. I have to stick to that as a minister. People asked when we were expecting a breakthrough in self-testing with throat wipers. I honestly don't know. I don't have an answer. For starters, science has to make progress here. Companies will then have to invest in this. I don't have a predictive answer right now. As regards the quality of the self-tests, the FAGG has set up a survey with the producers of the self-tests we sell here, about their detection capacity for omikron. I haven't gotten any results yet. However, I believe that until now, including by the experts, this is as good as it is to detect omikron, because the protein that the self-test responds to is actually not mutated. So there's no problem there. We also know that the self-tests are less sensitive. They mainly indicate when someone has a strong viral load and is therefore highly contagious, while we are not at all sure that one is not infected with a negative result of a self-test. This could be overlooked by the self-test. However, if a self-test is positive, it is a very clear indication that one should stay at home because one is highly contagious and that one should apply for a PCR test. That remains the argument for self-testing. The European Health Security Committee has also raised the question of the quality of the self-tests relating to omikron. This will therefore also be followed up at European level. So far our experts assume that the self-tests are also suitable in the omikron context, knowing that they are not so reliable when they are negative, but that they are clear when they are positive. That brings me to the debate on reimbursement. I may say it in too simple a way, Mrs Merckx........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If anything that could mean good policy has to be done by the federal government, then we will soon be able to do all kinds of things that are clearly within the competence of the Communities. A country is based on a division of labour and preventive testing is, without doubt, a competence of the Communities, but in the context of the pandemic, we are jointly pursuing a policy on this issue. Things have gone so far that the federal government has so far financed most of it. I have also given the figure in the Seventh Day: since 1 October we have paid EUR 290 million for free PCR tests, while the Communities may have paid a few million euros. However, that is a Community competence to the extent that it is about asymptomatic people and preventive testing. For example, we cannot decide whether a test can be required. This must be decided in Community decrees, except perhaps for entry policy. So not everything that's good has to be done by the federal government. We must finally grow up in this area in our country. You say I started a fraternity, but that's not the case at all. The Ministers of Education have rightly said that we agree with this recommendation that parents should use self-tests. The logic is to think about how to promote it in education. I didn't bring up a dispute about that. Some people say that we are pushing through the hot potato, but I could say that I already have a bowl of hot potatoes on my plate that should not be there: we are financing 80% of the vaccination campaign, we are financing about the whole test apparatus. That's a bowl of hot potatoes on the federal plate that shouldn't actually be there, but we do and I'm not complaining about that. We are doing this because we believe that we should not think so closely about who is responsible for what in the context of the pandemic. We are trying to move forward together, and this is also happening in joint management. You rightly pointed out that we are also making decisions together. We decide the test policy together. New proposals are often developed under the impetus of the federal government. In the RMG there are people from the Communities, but that expert group operates at the level of the federal government. So those cases are partly mixed up. Again, not everything that's good has to be paid by the federal government. Then we go completely bankrupt, while the federal government is primarily intended to provide social security and health insurance. I would like to stress that very strongly. We will have to have this debate more often in the future. Mrs Creemers, you are asking whether we have already paid something. I should get the numbers, but I'm gonna memorize them. We are close to 4 million self-tests sold in the pharmacies. I'm not talking about the department stores. The pharmacists tell us that a fifth to a quarter of them are reimbursed. If we assume that about 800 000 to 900 000 self-tests have been sold at pharmacies at 1 euro, then this amounts to EUR 7 million. That edition isn't huge, but it is. Should self-tests be promoted? Yes. I would call on anyone who comes into contact with a target group for which this is important, whether it be the sickness funds, local authorities, OCMW boards or schools, to raise awareness of how they can buy a self-test for all members of their families at a rate of EUR 1 each, if they are entitled to an increased allowance. A number of people will not know that, and that is why we need to sensitise them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u33	Mrs Rohonyi, we explained yesterday why we did not follow the GEMS opinions on 100% teleworking and public transport measures. At the federal level, my colleague Gilkinet has tried to strengthen the capacity of trains. Moreover, given the fact that many people do telework, we believe that train use will be less than normal. As far as public transport in the regions is concerned, we have not decided anything because it is quite complicated. As far as telework is concerned, we believe that the current system – four days out of five – is quite strict. It also implies that no more than 20% of the staff can be present at the same time in the company. There is no possibility for team building, receptions or parties. It is a rather strict regime but one that takes into account the need for workers to leave their homes and to see colleagues from time to time. In addition, we take into account the mental health argument – explicitly used in the Codeco – in deciding not to impose five days of telework but four. We've been looking for a balance. I come to the various questions about the hospitals. Mrs Depoorter, you were right to point out the concerns about the omikron contamination of children. What we hear about this is nuanced, but it is true that children may get more infected and show symptoms of disease than other variants. I will not comment on this now, because that is a debate that should primarily be conducted by scientists and doctors, but that is also about whether our first line is ready, whether our hospitals are ready if more children would need care. The Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee (HTSC) has worked hard in recent days. That committee is led by an official of the Public Health Office, Mr Van der Auwera, and that is very much based on bottom-up work with the hospitals and the hospital domes that are part of that committee. The decisions taken in this area have in principle been supported by the hospitals and hospital domes themselves. The HTSC collects input from the hospitals and does not put itself unnecessarily in the place of the hospitals. Let me give you the example of the buddies I referred to yesterday. Staff who are not specialised in intensive care or who are not even nurses can be employed to relieve the burden of specialized nurses, so that they can only perform tasks of intensive care. It's called buddies. That's what happened in the first wave. According to the Committee, it is not up to the Minister to organise that in the hospitals. The hospitals take that kind of initiative themselves. They must have sufficient staff, of course. I shall come back to that in a moment. The organization takes place within the hospitals. We do not lay down any rules for this. This is part of the plan of approach that was presented to the committee this afternoon in its final version. I can say the following things about that. First of all, judging from what I feel about the press coverage, I would like to avoid a misunderstanding. Without criticizing it, I would like to point out that there is a misunderstanding. Never do people with covid take precedence over other people who need urgent concerns. It's never been, and we don't want it to be. A few weeks ago, some chief doctors determined that they do not give priority to covid patients over other patients who need urgent care, but that is actually next to the issue, because that was never asked, and it would be unethical, by the way. Urgent care is needed, always, period. Covid is a condition for which the patient entering the hospital must be treated urgently. In the context of the management of the pandemic, at certain stages of the emergency planning of hospitals with the HTSC, we did say to hospitals that non-urgent care should be postponed at that time, so that room is kept for the possible arrival of covid patients who urgently need care, as they should be given priority. It is therefore a priority for priority care over non-priority care. In itself, this is already a painful decision for the quality of care, the well-being of the people and the stress in hospitals, but it is therefore about a balance between urgent care due to covid versus non-urgent care for non-covid. In today's Committee there is talk of adding a phase 3, not yet up-to-date, to the planning. When it becomes so difficult in terms of available staff and in terms of influx of patients in need of urgent care, the rifle should be changed from shoulder. In phase 3, no more beds are reserved for possibly urgent covid care, as everything is full. The task is to ensure that priority non-covid care is provided as far as possible. Both for the urgent covid and for the urgent non-covid it is therefore considered what is first addressed. That's the difference. A while ago, some did not agree with the priority for covid patients over non-urgent non-covid patients, but we never agreed. On the contrary, and I would say unfortunately, in phase 3, non-urgent concern has been completely postponed. In phase 3, it concerns the consideration of urgent covid versus urgent non-covid. That's a phase we wouldn't like to be in. So what we need to do is to appeal to the directives that are available to intensiveists and geriatrics. The question is who is to be included in intensive care and who is not, but also who is to be admitted to a hospital and who is to be avoided hospitalization through more intensive guidance in the residential care centre or at home. This is done on the basis of guidelines of good medical practice which exist and of which intensiveists and geriatrics have knowledge, but which have now been brought to the attention of the Committee. In fact, the Committee's reasoning is that if things go badly, we'll hope for the best, but prepare for the worst. We'll get past phase 2 relatively quickly from the current phase 1A-1B and end up in phase 3. Then we must be prepared. That also presupposes a number of other things. Solidarity between hospitals will have to be organized by means of transport. I am not going to say everything in the note that has been knocked off or knocked off this afternoon, I have not yet received a message from that meeting that may still be in progress. There are a number of very delicate decisions in that regard. It is about postponing care that is not urgent. It is also a question of stopping, for example, the emergency services' consultation function. It concerns the need to limit emergency admissions in such circumstances to patients referred to by the 112, their GP or the GP service. It is about making real decisions on priority for inclusion on intensive care and thinking between hospitals about a division of tasks, where some hospitals may need to use their intensive care to a greater extent for covid and other hospitals their intensive care, the most specialised than, to a lesser extent, use it for covid, but for highly specialised interventions on the third line, which require intensive care. Then, of course, the following must also be done at the same time with regard to staffing, which is the case when we talk about buddies. If a lot of staff falls out, it may also be necessary to decide not to use cleaning staff to clean administrative premises, but to clean rooms where patients are staying and where patients need to be cared for. Then we must also make such choices. Is that what we want? Absolutely not! However, emergency planning means thinking, with hospitals, about what happens when things go wrong. We are also taking measures, and we will be discussing this in the Group of Ten, for industry in general and for hospitals, to make it easier for other people to be involved. It's about more flexible arrangements for job students. We want to allow job students to go above the limit of 475 working hours in the first quarter of 2022. Another measure that we are thinking of is that pensioners can be more easily integrated without being hampered by cumulation ceilings. We will certainly continue to talk about this with employers and employees. Other measures can also be taken to ensure that there can be a flexible staff deployment. I am thinking, of course, of volunteering, which is not about business but applies to hospitals. The increase in the ceilings for volunteers is also important in this regard. I'm not going to detail what the committee is working on. I'd rather leave that communication to the HTSC itself. If it gets very difficult, it actually comes down to the following: one will occupy all the beds and keep no beds. We will then have to consider urgent non-covid and covid on the basis of guidelines of good medical practice. Then the chief doctors will have important responsibilities in making these considerations, but also in making agreements between hospitals, about transports and to which, in priority, covid patients need intensive care, versus non-covid patients need intensive care. Such agreements will then have to be made. All this is being prepared, also the interplay between the hospitals and the first line, both the general practitioners and the residential care centres. Even then, even more intensely than today, decisions will have to be taken together on the non-hospitalisation of patients who would normally be hospitalised, but who will not be when we end up in phase 3. Moreover, the Committee also states that we could even be in a more severe situation of triage, going even further than what existing directives prescribe for good medical practice should the situation become even more acute. Do I think this will happen? No, I do not share that view. I believe that the data we have now indicate that Omikron is very contagious, but makes it less seriously ill. Although the variant leads to more hospitalizations in a number of countries, it does not clearly lead to more recordings on intensive care. However, we are not sure. So we are preparing the worst possible scenario in the hope that it will not, of course, be the worst possible scenario. Colleagues, it is important to me that the ownership of emergency planning lies partly with the hospitals and the hospital domes. This planning is therefore developed by the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee in consultation with the hospital domes, experts and Defense. My final point is that my colleague in the defence sector has reacted generously to the question of whether, if we wanted personnel from the defence sector, we could do so. It has replied in the affirmative, but we must first look at which profiles could be made available by the Defense Department. Those profiles are also framed. That's the spirit we work in. You know the GPs are also planning an emergency. In Flanders, Domus Medica has already put that planning on track. My information doesn't go any further than last night. Yesterday there were meetings on this subject, according to my information. However, there is also a need for detailed emergency planning for primary care in French-speaking Belgium. Those were the elements of the answers to the questions that have been asked here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u34	Thank you, Minister. I would like to thank Mrs Vanpeborgh for the replacement when I asked questions in another committee. I now give the floor to Mr Creyelman for the first reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u35	Minister, at one point I heard you say in connection with the self-tests that you wanted to appeal to the citizens' own responsibility. However, I would not take that too much for granted. Common sense is about the only thing in the world that is fairly divided. Everyone thinks he has had enough, but that is not necessarily the case. If I understand correctly, you say in your answer about the capacity of the departments intensive concern that in the worst-case scenario, if necessary, there will be some kind of war triage. That's, in short, what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u36	Do you mind if I respond to that? In disaster medicine, you do triage in a context of disasters. I was just talking about stages 3 and 4. With the Phase 4 to which the Committee refers, I think you're in disaster medicine. However, the phase 3 to which the Committee refers is a phase in which you actually rely on well-known medical practice guidelines, but then applied intensively. Those guidelines are known to intensivists and geriatrics. Well, that's something else, isn't it? I think we should continue to make that distinction in order to rule out any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u37	Thank you. These were not replies to the answers to my own questions, but comments I had in your replies to the other questions. As far as my own questions are concerned, I have in fact no reply, Minister. Unfortunately, I have not been able to detect an answer in your very comprehensive answer unless you can promise me...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u38	About what?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u39	It was about those walk-ins.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u40	That's right. Excuse me. Well, those centers are there. There are a few of them in Flanders where you can walk in. The smaller vaccination centres in Brussels also often have this feature. The larger vaccination centres in Brussels do not like to do so and prefer to work with a system of calling and registering, but there are a number of smaller vaccination and testing centres in Brussels where you can just walk in. It's different from center to center. I was distracted for a moment. I confused it with the vaccination centers. We can do that in a number of test centers, but I don't have a list.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u41	I will put a written question on that part, Minister. I expect an answer soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u42	Minister, I did not say that you started a dispute. I have noticed that the ministers are arguing. I will quote you literally, because after that meeting of the Consultative Committee, you yourself said: 'I hope my colleagues will not be angry now; it is easy for me to say that, but the Ministers of Education can make perfect group purchases of self-tests and make them available free of charge'. You literally said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u43	That's right. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u44	That's what you said after the consultation committee meeting. It is really incredible that people today are the victims of the bad governance in our country. From the beginning it has been said that, in order to combat the pandemic, unity of command is needed, a uniform policy. Today, in the fifth wave, we still find that the ministers do not agree and then you suddenly say that testing is not your competence, whereas you have always paid them back so far. Self-tests of 1 euro, tests of asymptomatic affected persons, PCR tests, which can be used for prevention, which have also been used for prevention. And now suddenly, in the middle of the fifth wave, you start counting your money; you say that you have already spent 290 million on those tests since 1 October and that you have already paid 80% of the vaccinations. I honestly don't understand what the discussion is about, but does it cost you too much? Isn't the covid pandemic incredibly expensive? Not only money and economic damage, but also human damage? Today, the parents of the children, as Mrs Creemers said, but also the many people who have to work every day and who have to buy their own tests with their low salaries, are victims of the fact that in the middle of the fifth wave our ministers each draw up their own accounts and start arguing about who has to pay what. In other countries such as the UK and the Netherlands, self-tests are refunded. There are a lot of examples of countries where one can simply enter the pharmacist's office or be tested organized. On the other hand, Belgians are completely left to their own devices, although effective prevention is the only way out. Maybe the hospitals will have to do wartriage. In the fifth wave, two years after the start of the pandemic, we are unable to take a serious approach to prevention and see what is possible, such as the reimbursement of the self-tests. Only 8% of parents in Flanders, where they are generally a little more purchasing power, have said that they will actually test their children. Then the government must assume its responsibility and ensure that the testing is organised. Who or which minister decides on this matter, no one has a message to say about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u45	As for the lab capacity of 140,000 rapid antigen tests, I think you can go a little further. For example, you could also have the PCR tests taken in a pharmacy. I would like to point out to those Members who speak of walk-in testing centres or test centres as they exist in the United Kingdom that they can simply enter the pharmacy with a CCPC code. So that is indeed organized and even well organized. In the past, I have already pointed out to the Minister that it is very difficult for people to apply for the CTPC code. My colleagues do what they are asked to do and often accompany the people there. It could be even simpler, so that the threshold would be much lower. I am convinced that we could test even wider, if we use the capacity even more, with the possibility, for example, of taking a PCR test in the pharmacy. The labs can pick up the samples from the pharmacy perfectly. So we can help a number of people who can't be helped now. That is why, in my view, Minister, you must consider that line of thinking. The Flemish government has already done its homework. Now it is up to you to deal with this as well. The opinion of the experts on the self-tests is what counts, according to you. I would point out that every distributor can validate a self-test, whether it's a grocery store, a pharmacy or a grocery chain. Each distributor may ask its supplier to validate that it is correct self-testing. It is the task of the FAGG to ensure that the self-tests offered are of good quality. I understand that it is not possible in your position to say that we will only use a throat scraper anyway. Nevertheless, I would point out that the FAGG plays a role in this. For example, when I indicated that certain swaps left small particles in the nose, the FAGG took half a measure. They've been quarantined, but they could still be sold. Now they use two sizes and two weights. An associate of Professor Van Ranst's institute clearly says that the self-tests that are on the market are good, but that a throat scraper is needed. Perhaps we need to find a middle ground so that we can guide the citizens to carry out self-tests as best we can. If one is infected, it is better that one knows and that one can separate oneself. As far as the kids are concerned, you're leaning back a little bit. You're saying it could be a problem. We don't know yet, but it could be a problem. You say that there are signals and that it will be investigated. I urge you not to leave this to the hospitals alone. You don't want to imagine that at some point we won't have beds for children? Or that a child must be transferred from Bruges to Namur and that the parents cannot reach the child in any way? Please let common sense prevail and make sure that there is capacity and that you are prepared if more children need to be included. You transfer the entire responsibility of the buddy working and the resilience of the care to the hospitals. I really don't agree with that. They have indeed organised this in the previous waves because of their creativity, because of their resilience which has been shown to be more frequent, but you can facilitate that as a minister. For example, you can provide a paid internship. You can increase the attractiveness of the profession or internships. You can temporarily relax the administrative obligations you impose, allowing more administrative staff to be released and there can be more hands on the bed. You can facilitate home nurses' participation in first-line practice or even in hospitals. There is no nomenclature for that today. These matters are now removed from you, but you can carry them out yourself in the short term. You referred to Domus Medica's plan for the first line, but there too I see that moving forward. Yesterday, we in the College of Ships took on our responsibilities, as most local authorities do over and over again in this crisis. We have received the question from Domus Medica whether we want to support phase 3, and we will, of course, do so, but who will help our local government? Will we, the local government, have to ensure that the facilities for the general practitioners are there? Yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior, you said that you were in favour of this, you said that again today, but to what extent will you be in favour of doing so? To what extent can the local authorities rely on the federal government, on you, to support it, to ensure that emergency planning can take shape?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u46	Over the past ten days, I've had a continuous consultation with Domus Medica to know their needs, wishes and vision with regard to the federal government. If Domus Medica presents us with a concrete strategy in which we can play a role, we will do so. It's not like we're gonna sit back. Of course, you're going to say that I'm gonna shove it off, I know that reaction, but I'm gonna say it anyway. The organization of the first line is a competence and responsibility of the Communities. Therefore, if your ship's college is faced with such practical questions, you will receive a question from Domus Medica for practical support of general practitioners. However, because I think I should do so, I have, in close consultation with my Flemish colleague, constantly arranged meetings with my people, Domus Medica and others, in order to know how they saw it and what their needs were. However, the power to support the first line lies with the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u47	I welcome your emphasis today on this division of powers, Minister. We too will never avoid powers. By the way, I assume that prophylaxis remains a federal competence, because this is also the subject of a discussion. I will remind you when this is discussed again. In any case, you have not created a framework, either in the hospitals or in the first line. However, that is absolutely very important. I would just like to comment on the very difficult discussion that you discussed at the end, namely the debate on care and medicine in the field of triage. Can the doctor still exercise his or her profession in an ethical manner? I would like to call for an in-depth political debate to be preceded by the necessary hearings, because this is an ethical matter. You referred just now to the consultation that is taking place in hospitals, but I can imagine that the doctors and also the management of hospitals do not want to take that decision alone. That is something that must be behaved and about which politicians must be able to inform, reflect and debate. You did not answer the question about travel. How do you see European policy? What are you going to do about limiting the omikron wave, which is really at the door of Europe? We are now exactly two years after the last time I asked that question, then to Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u48	Mr President, I would like to add something. Mrs Rohonyi, in the previous debate, you had a specific question about the opinions of the Higher Health Council. I inquired because my answer might have been a little confused. The Council is currently working on two specific issues: the booster for young people and the booster for those who have had an immunity problem. For the rest, no opinion work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u49	Would there have been a request for advice on the fourth dose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u50	It has not been solicited in general, for the entire population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u51	It concerns only immunocompromised persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u52	It concerns the booster for immunocompromised patients for whom it will be the fourth dose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u53	It also covers a third dose for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u54	Yes. These are the two issues that the Council is addressing. For the rest, on the booster, there are no other questions or very concrete opinions being dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u55	When was this opinion sought? When do you hope for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u56	Some time ago. I don't know when he'll land. I hope that this will be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u57	Minister, thank you. I understand that this was a further answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u58	Minister, you said that with the self-tests we are more committed to the responsibility of the people themselves. That's good. We are also doing this more and more in the Corona policy that is currently being pursued. In the meantime, everyone knows that responsibility is an important factor in this crisis and in managing this crisis. Most people take that responsibility. People themselves limit their contacts without the legislator having to intervene in private life. The system of self-testing is certainly a good solution in this respect to supplement that capacity in situations where the test capacity begins to crack, as you have called it, and thus to rely on everyone's own responsibility. You make the right choice by using more self-tests. You have also worked out a solution to the concerns that these self-tests should remain affordable for everyone, through the system of the 2 million Belgians who are entitled to an increased allowance. They can buy the self-tests for only 1 euro. That's also a good solution for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u59	Mr. Minister, first of all, with regard to the measures of the last Codeco, I understand that complete telework has not been retained for mental health reasons. I can quite understand this, except that this consideration of mental health is ultimately of variable geometry; indeed, as we know, you argued, at the December Codeco, for the closure of the cultural sector, when this sector is precisely essential for the mental health of everyone. You did not answer my question about the development of a mental health barometer. With regard to the urgency of discussing health measures in Parliament, you also did not reply to me, even though we have seen, with the latter, with regard to the closure of the cultural sector, that the current mode of operation of the Codeco has shown its limits, as well as the pandemic law. As far as self-tests are concerned, I understand that you consider that their financing is the responsibility of the Communities. But why, at first, did we see the federal take over the funding of these self-tests? In any case, in my view, there are two priorities on which we should be able to work and which should be able to be decided in a cooperation agreement. Firstly, to set a maximum price, a ceiling price, as is called for by Test Achats; indeed, from the moment when the government strongly recommends, or even imposes in some cases, the frequent use of these self-tests, I think that it must be able to assume financial responsibility for them rather than putting this burden on households which, as we know, are already heavily affected by the crisis. And then there is also the question of finally carrying out a real big information campaign on the proper use of these self-tests, which are not all used in the same way, insisting that they do not replace a PCR test, especially after a contact case. We can also see that, after the holidays, many people who did this test and were negative were positive the next day. It's still quite challenging. It is also apparent that the information available on the AFMPS website is incomprehensible to the Lambda consumer. These are also the words of Test Purchases. I hope, minister, that you will commit to work on these two specific measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the speedy calculation of how many compatriots would have called for this increased allowance. I share your view that we should continue to promote this because there may be another group that does not use it because she does not know. I therefore encourage you to continue to use it through all the channels at your disposal, as well as to keep the dialogue going to find a solution for the families that are just outside. I understand your reasoning that this is a task for the Länder, but in the end the families who are asked to take a self-test every week are still in the cold with their children. I hope that a solution can be found for this in a constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u61	Minister, I wanted to hear from you before I intervened. Codeco has opted for the removal of much of the test strategy - tracing - isolating, by actually dropping this hand brake. Indeed, when high-risk contacts are no longer tested, this is tantamount to abrogation of one of the main levers for managing the epidemic. In addition, there is a major risk to the most vulnerable patients, who cannot isolate themselves, since they may be both a colleague and their children or spouse, and not just an elderly person in a nursing home. So we risk paying him cash! Personally, my choice will always be, in the event of an epidemic, directed towards the isolation of the positives for a few days instead of having to close sectors, as you and others have been doing for two years. Moreover, the RAG did not fail to report it outright. The reasons for your choices still seem to me to be anything but clear. Is it the fear of saturation of PCR tests? In any case, at this stage, this is still not demonstrated. Are your motives purely economic? If so, this is not necessarily a good calculation, since you may see clustering in business - which will be even worse! Is it tacitly to allow the virus to circulate massively in the hope of collective immunity? This would then be very problematic, since it amounts to taking a major risk against vulnerable people. If this is your option, it must be said, so that they can protect themselves as best they can. If the hypothesis, in my opinion, of a fear of saturation of the PCR tests is demonstrated, then it would at least have been necessary to develop a clear scheme reserved for high-risk contacts, in the form of a test for the first five days and isolation if they prove to be positive. This was not your choice and in a rather incoherent way, moreover, since a weekly test is recommended in children, but not in adults. We have to see the continuation of this particularly unhealthy ping-pong game. This is the typical example of everything that goes wrong in public health policy: we have nine ministers of health who agree to do tests once a week for children, but once we have to do it, organize it, finance it...
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u62	Mrs. Fonck, you should close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u63	Mr President, the minister has been very long. If I may, I'll finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u64	We're three minutes away. Continue but close!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u65	, I'm still going to keep thinking, Mr. President. I hear Groen's colleague say that it is up to the Communities to act; I hear the Green Ministers in the French Community say that it is not them. In short, we find ourselves therefore with a postponement of the burden to the families and, above all, an inefficiency. Indeed, this is necessarily the best way not to test. So if the self-test policy among children is absolutely justified, then it must be financed and organised. By removing testing and tracing in high-risk contacts, a major indicator is also lost. It's kind of like breaking the thermometer and so much worse! I shall conclude, minister, by raising a point. Self-tests can produce false negatives, but few, if any, false positives. So I don't see the point of doing PCR tests when the self-test is positive. I think that in these cases people should be seen as positive. Isolating high-risk contacts when people are symptomatic obviously requires a PCR test to make a diagnosis and not a self-test. It is the passage through the PCR that is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u66	Minister, the HPV vaccination is free for children in the first year of secondary education. Girls can also be vaccinated at a later date. They'll get the vaccine themselves, but it'll be refunded. That's not the case with boys. Are you prepared to provide for the same exception for boys, so that those who were not vaccinated in the first grade will be reimbursed for the vaccination at a later date? If you are not prepared to do so, what are the reasons? What considerations are being made? What advice has been obtained on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u67	Minister, the vaccine against HPV has been offered free of charge to all children in the first year of secondary education or equivalent special education since September 2019. Girls who want to be vaccinated at a later date or who are not eligible for the free vaccination must buy the vaccine themselves in the pharmacy on prescription from a doctor. In such cases, the sickness fund shall pay part of the vaccine back if the prescription contains the correct particulars. In addition, the person concerned may not be more than 19 years old at the time of the first dose. Meanwhile, studies showed that the boys also benefit from HPV vaccination. As a result, vaccination policies were adapted and boys in the first grade also get the chance to be vaccinated. However, if older boys want a catch-up vaccine, they have to pay for it themselves. Girls and women over the age of 19 are also excluded from the boat for free vaccination. Mr Minister, first of all, why do boys over 12 years of age and girls over 19 years of age not pay back catch-up vaccines? What's the reason for that? Do you intend to correct that skew? Secondly, the High Health Council recommends general vaccination of adolescents between 9 and 14 years of age as well as catching up vaccination of young women and men aged 15 to 26 years. Why don't you take that advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u68	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u69	Mr President, I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. I would also like to dwell on the girls and boys who are over 19 years of age. They're just out of here. What solutions are there for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u70	Mr President, Minister, the Higher Council of Health has clearly recommended a general preventive vaccination of girls and boys aged 9 to 14 inclusive but also a catch-up vaccination for young women and men aged 15 to 26 inclusive who have not previously benefited from generalised preventive vaccination. The Supreme Council of Health also recommends vaccination of immunocompromised persons, including transplantees or people living with a patient with the AIDS virus. In the light of new results in international research or literature, there is evidence. The huge study in the New England Journal of Medicine 2020 involved 527,000 vaccinees and 1,145,000 non-vaccinated. Its unstoppable results show that when vaccination is carried out between 17 and 30 years of age, which is not taken into account today in Belgium, there is a 53% reduction in cervical cancer and that, if vaccination is carried out before 17 years of age, the risk of cervical cancer is reduced by 88%. The reimbursement must therefore be extended extremely quickly, in the light of the recommendations of the Higher Council of Health. Minister, could you give us some insight into this? The opinion of the Higher Council of Health is not a few days old. I imagine you've already been able to decide on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u71	Mr President, Minister, I did indeed want to join the questions asked by my colleagues on this very important subject. I wanted to refer to this new opinion given by the Higher Council of Health, which observes a positive development. To date, the vaccine has been offered free of charge to girls in the hope that, in the long run, boys will also be covered by indirect protection. It was a strategy that proved inoperative because it excluded boys who would never have sex with girls. Some countries had decided at the outset to vaccinate girls and boys and to provide for catch-up vaccination or vaccination for people whose immune defences had been weakened. Fortunately, the Communities have put an end to this discrimination by offering free vaccination for all in the school environment, but there is still a tendency to assimilate this risk to cervical cancer, as shown by the studies by Sciensano which conclude that it is advisable for women aged 25 to 64 to screen for papillomavirus and for young girls to be vaccinated against the same virus outside the school environment and therefore outside the competence of the Communities. It therefore seems that the focus is always on girls and young women for cervical cancer and on the management by the Communities in a school setting, but what about the men who have been identified as also at risk for other types of cancer and what about the protection outside schools? A KCE study confirms the issue of this vaccine for boys and men. Can you tell us why this discrimination persists in the federal intervention in compulsory insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u72	Mr President, it is true that there is currently no reimbursement through health insurance of the HPV vaccination for boys from 12 to 18 years old. I would like to add the following comments. Since the 2019-2020 school year, HPV vaccination takes place through the free vaccination campaigns of the Communities, both for boys and girls. In Flanders the vaccination is organized in the first year of secondary education, and in some directions of special education for the corresponding age, in Brussels and Wallonia in the second year of secondary education. The vaccine is not mandatory, but it is recommended. However, there is no refund for vaccination of boys who do not want to be vaccinated as part of the Community's vaccination campaigns. This means that the cohort of boys not vaccinated through the Communities, but still eligible for vaccination, i.e. before the age of 19, by analogy with the girls, will become smaller in the coming years. HPV vaccination is recommended to prevent HPV-related diseases, with prevention of the development of cervical cancer being the main objective, in addition to prevention of premalignant lesions, anogenital cancers and genital warts. This also explains why HPV vaccination is currently only reimbursed through health insurance for girls, because they will have the greatest health benefit, provided that vaccination takes place at a young age, before they become sexually active and thus have not yet come into contact with the virus. Non-vaccined boys may indeed also get HPV infection and pass it on through intimate contact, but it should be noted that its preventive character is limited to more rare anal tumours and genital warts. Furthermore, it is known that certain HPV types also cause other cancers besides the anogenital region, such as throat and neck cancers, in both girls and boys. However, these cancers have not been included in the scientific package leaflet for these vaccines. Therefore, they shall not be taken into account in the course of a pharmacodynamic evaluation. Step 1 is therefore ensuring maximum vaccination of young girls. I am talking about at least 90%. This is already happening in Flanders. Step 2 is the vaccination of the cohorts young boys, namely in the first secondary in Flanders and in the second secondary in Wallonia and Brussels. That's been happening since 2019. Step 3 may be the catching-up vaccination of boys who were just too old in 2019 and are not yet 19 years old. A procedure for one of the vaccines is currently under way in the Commission. It calls for the extension of reimbursement to boys from 12 to 18 years old. On the basis of the recommendations of this committee, I will make a decision. Such decisions should always take into account efficient and optimal use within an acceptable and available financial framework. According to the current timeline, I will have to decide on the extension of reimbursement for boys in the first half of 2022. Mrs. Sneppe, you asked why the catch-up vaccination goes up to 19 years and not up to 26 years, as the High Health Council recommends. A refund of the HPV vaccine at a later age was also in your question, Mrs Muylle. The 19-year limit would, according to the information I have today, have grown historically on the basis of the pharmacodynamic analyses. The first reimbursement was provided for the age category from 12 to 15 years. Afterwards this was extended to 18 years. The cohort has always been chosen from 12 to 18 years, because this is also the age at which puberty begins. All reimbursement conditions through health insurance are drawn up in the same line. They also follow the policy of the vaccination schemes of the Communities, which is better logistics. Catch-up vaccination after 18 years and up to 26 years is less cost-effective, as the efficacy of vaccination has been mainly demonstrated before sexual activity. After that age, the percentage of young women and men will not be so high. Moreover, the High Health Council does not rule on cost-effectiveness, while the Commission should take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So the decision hasn't been made yet, you're considering it. You are still waiting for advice and there is a procedure in progress. I'd like to give you some reasoning. The Communities shall ensure that this large group of young people is vaccinated. Now when we talk about a couple of guys who should get a catch-up shot, we're talking about a not too big group. So the social costs will not be huge. However, the personal gain for the patient in question can be enormous, so we have to take that into account. I would advise you to take a good look at those scientific advices and ensure that every child, whether it has fallen out of the cohort or not, could receive that vaccine at a refundable price.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that negotiations are still under way and that there are still opinions to be given. This has indeed grown historically. In 2007, the vaccine was first recommended in Belgium for girls between 10 and 13 years of age and later for boys between 9 and 14 years of age. Meanwhile, we've already started the girls up to 19 years old. It is good to evaluate this and take the advice of the High Health Council, which recommends opening this up to girls up to 26 years old. Then why wouldn't you do this for the boys? This can count in the context of discrimination. We will come back to that when we get the other advice, but it is good that attention will continue to be paid to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u75	As far as the age over 19 is concerned, especially boys and girls up to 26 years old, the High Health Council is indeed looking at the potential health gains. A comprehensive health policy also takes cost-effectiveness and risk into account. I understand your argument. I also follow Mr Depooster's reasoning. This is a small group that has not yet been discussed after the 2019-2020 school year, and a group with an extinct character. Since we are already at the first year of secondary education, this is at most about a number of years. So it seems to me to be justified, not only in terms of health gains, but also in terms of risks and cost effectiveness. I understand that you will soon have to take a decision on this, and in any case in the first part of the year. It seems to me that it is justified to carry out this. The future will tell, but I hope for a positive evolution. In any case, the debate will continue here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u76	I believe that it is a good thing to take into account efficiency and effectiveness, and I wonder what decision will ultimately be taken. On the basis of the information available to us today, it seems to me that it is entirely justified to do such a catching-up exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u77	[[Minister, I have heard your answer.]] First of all, let me point out to you that you use the advice of the Higher Council of Health according to what is right for you or not or according to the policy you want to pursue, which raises questions in terms of scientific and intellectual rigour. On the bottom, in my opinion, you're terrifying a lot. There is the opinion of the Superior Council. There is no point in doing 50,000 studies. Internationals on this data already exist. I have quoted the Swedish 2020 study of a huge number of cases with implacable results published in New England. Are we interested in vaccinating our young girls or boys early against the different types of HPV? Yes! Every effort must be made to do so. But it is also worth organizing a catch-up for those who have not been vaccinated at first, from the age of 19. This is of interest to the young people concerned. Moreover, as the figures show, this represents a major public health interest. In addition, it is also in your interest, Minister, from a macro-budgetary point of view. Indeed, it will be much more expensive to have to treat, for example, cancers of the uterus than to vaccinate. So you have every interest in providing for a refund of these vaccines. In this respect, I hope to obtain a quick and effective response from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I wish everyone a very happy new year, hopefully with a decreasing number of questions about COVID-19 by the end of this year. My question concerns advice No 9576 of the High Health Council (HGR) on nuclear risk, sustainable development and energy transition. That advice caused some commotion. Experts from the Nuclear Energy Study Centre (SCK) involved in the drafting of this opinion expressed their concerns. Some people didn't even want to identify with this advice anymore. Some also indicated that they would have been pressured to sign the opinion anyway. According to them, there would also have been insufficient scientific consultation and little attention had been paid to the specific field of expertise of the SCK experts. In addition, the special timing of the opinion is noted. That raises a number of questions. Who took the initiative for this opinion? The HGR goes beyond the field of health care, as it also provides advice on environmental aspects and the energy transition. Is that part of the HGR's field of expertise? What's your opinion on that? Certain aspects, such as nuclear energy, have not been sufficiently highlighted. Does that, in your opinion, affect the value of this opinion? Will you investigate where it has gone wrong in the preparation of this opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u79	The High Health Council shall deliver scientific opinions either at the request of the relevant ministers and administrations or on its own initiative. I refer to Article 9 (1) of its Founding Decision of 5 March 2007, as amended by Royal Decree of 28 February 2014. The opinion 9576 Nuclear risk, sustainable development and energy transition is a project on its own initiative, proposed by experts of the Standing Committee on Ionising Radiations and approved by the College of the High Health Council. Mrs Gijbels, you had a question about competence and expertise. The High Health Council is responsible for all aspects related to health, including sustainable development, environment and climate. The Minister responsible for the environment can also ask questions. The High Health Council follows the policy "One world, one health" of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and takes into account factors that have a direct impact on human, animal and plant health and the environment. This includes the fight against climate change, resource management and waste management. In this context, the College of the High Health Council has requested that the positioning of nuclear energy vis-à-vis other energy sources as well as aspects of sustainable development and ethical aspects be addressed. In all cases, the High Health Council is an independent body that itself decides on the relevant issues to be studied. The areas of expertise of the High Health Council are therefore very diverse, namely mental health, nutrition, blood and blood derivatives, chemical agents and the environment, vaccination, ionising and non-ionizing radiations etc. Moreover, if a working group is set up, the High Health Council will seek the necessary expertise to draw up its opinions outside the network if it is unable to find them in its existing network of more than 1,800 experts. All expertise is therefore always present, regardless of the subject matter. During the preparation of this opinion, all aspects of the issue were discussed, with contributions from more than 20 experts in the various areas covered by the opinion. This was done at 15 meetings held between February and September 2021. The experts of the SCK had the opportunity to provide information or documents useful for the preparation of the opinion, either during the meetings in oral presentations for other members of the group, by e-mail or in written contributions. They were also given ample opportunity to comment and adapt the text of the opinion, which was already widely distributed at the beginning of July. Experts from the SCK reportedly did not do this. They did not argue at the meeting either. Only at the end of the process, when final approval was given, did the SCK experts disagree with the final draft opinion. On the basis of the report I have received, there is no reason to believe that aspects of the SCK's area of expertise have not been adequately addressed. You're asking me to investigate what went wrong? The usual procedure is to indicate the name of each expert who has contributed to the drafting of an opinion. Those who adopted the opinion are included in the composition of the working group. Those who did not take part in the drawing up or in the adoption of the opinion shall be listed as experts heard. It was therefore proposed that the experts who did not agree should be placed in the last category. This was refused by the experts of the SCK, who did not want to be associated with the opinion. The Office of the Supreme Health Council has therefore deviated from the usual procedure. Nevertheless, in the interests of transparency, the Bureau considered it appropriate to point out to the reader that three experts who participated in the meeting did not agree with the opinion. I therefore believe that the High Health Council did not make a mistake in the procedures for drawing up the document. I think there might have been a problem of lack of knowledge of the procedures of the experts involved. This is clearly described when a new expert is invited. The High Health Council will meet with the Executive Board of the SCK to ensure future cooperation between the two institutes and to clarify the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-01-11-definitief-55-commissie-ic649x.u80	Minister, you state that the High Health Council has different areas of competence and that the right experts have been heard. The question can be asked whether energy transition should be transferred to the Supreme Health Council. It is worrying that experts from the SCK experience that their expertise was not valued. They even indicate that the rules of scientific research were not followed. There must be no doubt about that. The High Health Council is really an institution that we need to be able to trust. That's what our golden standard is for us to test things against. I suggest that we consider whether it is effective. If there were any doubt that there would be little, less or insufficient scientific standards there, society should not accept that. After all, it is such an important institution. That needs to be investigated. It is a good thing to sit with the SCK, but there is a real need for an evaluation of what has happened there. When it comes to scientific defects, we must not leave it at that.
