ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, environmental crimes are a real problem for the environment and the quality of life, of course, but also for our citizens directly affected by them. By their nature, the management of certain serious incivilities is particularly problematic when they are perpetrated at our borders. Indeed, the very nature of pollution, whatever its type, knows no borders and pollution upstream of a river can contaminate several countries at once. While international collaboration is generally quickly implemented for large-scale incidents, this is not the case on a smaller scale. Thus, recent developments in my municipality have yet to demonstrate our impotence in the face of localised pollution caused by a national of one of our neighbouring countries, but suffered by one of our fellow citizens. The opposite situation can also occur. In the light of these various elements, allow me, Madam Minister, to question you. It is possible, for example, to organize joint patrols with the French law enforcement agencies. Nevertheless, they take time to plan. Would it therefore be possible to set up a system, in collaboration with the law enforcement agencies of the neighbouring countries, which would make it easier to implement, for example, joint patrols with a clear and strict framework for action? Road traffic offences are well followed on both sides of the border. Why would it not be possible to establish a similar system for environmental offences? Pollution, whether intentional or involuntary, is everyone's business. Is there or is it possible to create a fund, co-managed by the various states concerned, to support citizens who are victims of localized environmental crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u2	As long as these are offences falling within the competence of the Belgian and French police services, it is perfectly possible to organise, on the basis of the existing legal instruments on cross-border police cooperation - in particular the Tournai II agreements of 18 March 2013 - joint patrols with France for the purpose of preventing and combating environmental crime. Procedures for the establishment of such patrols have been voluntarily kept very simple, in order to be able to react quickly to local criminal events and phenomena. The chief of corps of the relevant police zone may make the necessary arrangements directly with his/her colleague on the other side of the border. The local consultation structures set up in 2016 in the Franco-Belgian border region offer the possibility of making arrangements in advance for the use of mixed patrols as soon as certain types of incidents occur. It is also possible, for the exchange of information, to use existing instruments and structures in the field of cross-border police cooperation as long as they are offences falling within the competence of the Belgian and French police services, In concrete terms, the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation in Tournai (CCPD) can facilitate a smooth exchange of information in such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her clear answer. Of course, we know these tools. I would like to inform the minister that there is legislation, that there is the text, but that it is not always easy to make the necessary organizational arrangements on the ground. Perhaps it would be useful to remind the CCPD to put in place the various procedures that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, you are preparing a reform of the Council of State. Given the fundamental role now played by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Council of State, reforming this institution is not a neutral operation. As a reminder, the purpose of the Litigation Section is to judge all administrative acts of our country, whether issued by the federal state, a federated entity or a subordinate community. The role of the Council of State is all the more important since one in five workers in Flanders and one in four workers in Wallonia operate in the public or para-public sector. In addition, the number of structures faced by citizens, families, businesses, municipalities, intercommunals, provinces and subsidised associations is no longer available, especially in southern Belgium. While the weight of the administration tends to weigh more often on innovation and participation than on citizens' acceptance, and short-termism is sometimes the only horizon for some parts of the sector, improved and accelerated administrative justice is indeed more than ever on the agenda. However, the first drafts of the reform make me fear that this reform will miss its target. The establishment of an administrative loop, the reform of the administrative injunction and the role of the auditors in particular challenge me. If the establishment of an administrative loop - i.e. the possibility for an administration to correct an act in the course of the proceedings - is interesting, the reform will have to take into account the lessons learned from the Constitutional Court's judgement of 2015. The Commission had initially cancelled the reform. In fact, an attempt must always be made to maintain a balance between the rights of the defence and those of the complainant. The reform of the administrative order would require more opportunities to carry out investigative tasks. This seems to me to be difficult to reconcile with a highly accelerated justice system. Finally, the fate of the auditors raises serious concerns with regard to the rule of law. The auditors instruct each file before it passes into the hands of an advisor. The proposed reform would only transfer this work directly to the adviser without any significant added value in my view. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court has held that the role of the auditor plays a kind of essential guarantee in the absence of a dual level of jurisdiction. Therefore, are we going to leave the justiciable without this essential guarantee? So, can you commit yourself, within the government, to increasing the strength of the Council of State as you have increased the strength of the judiciary and the police? It seems to me that a substantial reinforcement of Francophone auditors and advisors would effectively reduce the Council of State's backlog. Moreover, the pressure on the Council of State would be reduced if there were lower levels of administrative jurisdiction. This is already partly the case in Flanders, as you know. And this is felt in the Dutch-speaking section of the Council of State. Thus, can you work with your colleagues in the federal entities responsible for Justice and Local Authorities to establish several levels of administrative jurisdiction in an orderly manner and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law? As we create a national road prosecutor's office, it is not absurd to want to build a pyramid of administrative justice. Lastly, should the reform not consider the autonomy of the Council of State vis-à-vis the executive branch whose actions it controls? Like the Constitutional Court, should the Council of State not receive a financial allocation voted by this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u5	Mr President, Mr Marghem, as I have already indicated in my replies to the questions in the Committee on the Interior on 12 January, the concept note on the optimisation of advisory activity within the Section for Legislation and on the shortening and optimisation of the handling of administrative disputes within the Section for Administrative Litigation approved last summer was drawn up after consulting experts both within and outside the Council of State. Currently, the necessary steps are being taken to further implement the necessary note and reforms in consultation with the Council of State, also in the light of the budgetary framework obtained. De Orde van Vlaamse Balies and the Ordre des Barreaux francophones et germanophone will obviously be consulted as a matter of priority in the consultation process. Furthermore, my intention is not at all to completely delete the double examination as claimed. The concept note aims to reform the system of double examination with a view to shortening and optimizing the Administrative Litigation in the Council of State, while of course ensuring adequate legal protection. In particular, the possibility of abolishing double examination in cases where the report has no particular added value will be considered. These possible cases are currently under consideration. Without prejudice to the absolute importance of legal certainty, we are looking for ways to ensure faster and better procedures. Applicants and authorities get clarifications more quickly, which is good for the investment climate, trust and legal certainty. Moreover, as already stated in my replies to the Committee on the Interior, it has long been necessary to increase the resources of the Council of State. At the time of the budgetary conclave of October 2021, it was finally decided, inter alia, at my request, to gradually increase the appropriations for the staff of the Council of State by EUR 216 000 in 2022, 1 332 000 (?) in 2023 and 2000 (?) from 2022 onwards. As for the question of regional administrative tribunals, it goes without saying that federated entities are free to take initiatives within the framework of their competence to do so. As far as the allocation is concerned, it should be stressed that the Council of State has very wide budgetary autonomy within the framework of the current budgetary organisation of the Internal SPF. Traditionally, the Council of State is not considered a parliamentary institution. In this regard, a parliamentary allowance is not appropriate. Finally, I confirm that this dossier will follow the usual procedure. After approval by the Government, the bill will be submitted to the relevant advisory bodies and, of course, to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will analyze it and, at the first opportunity, I will participate in the parliamentary work that will be related to the project that you will table when, after consultation with the specialists, you have passed it to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 16 July 2021 the Governor of Limburg ordered an artificial breach in the Gete near the border between Halen and Herk-de-City. In this way, worse damage could be prevented and houses in Halen were protected from water pollution. The governor made the decision during the federal disaster phase in his capacity as a federal official. Unfortunately, the decision resulted in several farmland flooding in Herk-de-City. However, the affected farmers cannot avail themselves of the Flemish Rampen Fund, since that fund only covers damage caused by an exceptional natural phenomenon. The broad weather insurance that farmers can take out does not provide a solution here either. Madam Secretary, I have three specific questions. Firstly, are you aware of the problem? Secondly, the Flemish Prime Minister is calling for a consultation between the competent federal and Flemish levels to identify regulatory gaps and to find a solution. Are you prepared to cooperate? Thirdly, which slopes do you think can be used to help the affected farmers out of need? Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the situation has already been described quite well by the previous speaker. I have also spoken to you a number of times about the artificial breach that was struck on 16 July 2021. Because of the flooding a breach was struck in the Gete between Herk-de-City and Halen, especially because the experts considered that this would prevent worse damage. The downside, however, was just as well outlined. Two pear plantations of two fruit farmers on the territory of Herk-de-City flooded with significant consequences. The Home Secretary's insurance has ruled that the governor has followed the correct procedure and that no mistakes have been made. However, this does not prevent insurance from intervening either. The farmers concerned cannot rely on the Flemish Rampen Fund either, because the broken dike is not a natural phenomenon of an exceptional nature. The problem should be dealt with in a regulatory way with a view to the future. However, the unfortunate situation of 2021 also calls for a solution. During an interview last week in the Flemish Parliament, Prime Minister Jambon indicated that on 20 December 2021 he sent a letter on the specific incident to the Prime Minister asking for consultation between the competent federal and Flemish entities, in order to find a solution to the issue. In this context, I had tabled my question to the Prime Minister. However, she has been referred to you, which is not illogical. After all, in my capacity as mayor of Herk-de-City, together with the governor and the mayor of Halen myself, I have already sent a letter to you as the minister responsible for the federal phase of the floods. My questions are the same as those of Mr Raskin. Firstly, did you receive the letter from the Flemish Prime Minister in good order? Do you intend, together with the Prime Minister, to respond to the Flemish Government's request for consultation in order to resolve the unfortunate situation of 2021 for these farmers? Secondly, an even more important and forward-looking question, the artificial breach that was struck in the federal phase has made it painfully clear that there is still a gap in legislation on the damage that could result from a disaster. What solution can you see for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u9	Mr President, Mr Raskin, Mr Moyaers, I am, of course, aware of this situation, also because we have had the opportunity to talk about it before. My services have been contacted by the governor of the province of Limburg and by the insurance companies of the farmers concerned. Your question shows that any compensation is a complex issue involving different actors and authorities, and the decisions taken obviously play a role. The question is about compensation for damage after a disaster. As you know, the Rampen Fund is part of the competence of the Regions. So I cannot comment on that. I am surprised that Herk-de-City was not recognised as a disaster area, while the heavy rain or floods were recognised as a disaster in 71 other Flemish cities and municipalities. I am, of course, prepared to work with the various levels of policy to see if a solution can be found to the regrettable situation of the farmers concerned. I believe that we can certainly do this. In any case, I have asked my services to analyse the problem again, after they have done so a number of times in recent months. I am still waiting for the outcome of that analysis, but I am of course prepared to look into it further and try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u10	Thank you for the answer, Minister, and for your commitment. Of course, you are right to say that it is a complex matter. You are also right to say that the Rampen Fund is a regional competence. I understand that you cannot be too strong about this, but I note that the governor has acted. For the record, he also acted correctly as a federal official. I don't think I can push the hot potato all the way through. However, I am pleased to hear you say that you are prepared to look for a possible solution and gaps in legislation. I hope you will take this to heart. My question dates back to 24 January and was originally addressed to the Prime Minister. So far, the Prime Minister has still not responded to the Prime Minister's letter, if I am well informed. He has also skillfully passed this question on to you. That did not give me much confidence in the extent to which people at the federal level were concerned about the annoying situation in which the fruit growers had ended up in Herk-de-City. I heard more commitment in your reply than I noticed from the Prime Minister. I therefore put my trust in the commitment you expressed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We have indeed discussed this situation informally several times. The situation in Herk-de-City is really pressing. As you say, the Herk-de-City Rampen Fund has not yet recognised itself as a disaster area. However, the media were able to shoot enough images when Herk-de-City was underwater. Of course, it is not your competence, but I understand that this has to do with the fact that there was no natural breach, but an artificial breach, which means that the Rampen Fund cannot intervene. That was just a small part of the big damage. In this respect, I welcome your commitment to contact the Flemish government. For the future, it is very important to consider how to close this gap in legislation, in case there is an artificial breach somewhere. It remains painful that we do not have a solution for these two farmers today. I hope that these people can be helped somehow, because it is about their livelihood and a damage file of more than EUR 250 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u12	Madam Minister, I am asking this question in connection with the discussion of the 2022 policy paper. The fire volunteer is a very topical subject, even during this morning's legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u13	Madam Minister, various areas of aid are suffering from a structural shortage of staff. There is a clear lack of a long-term vision, both in terms of personnel policy and organisational. I understand that in this context you have already taken initiatives to create a new statute for voluntary firefighters and that some specific working groups have been set up. To what extent will the new statute contribute to making the voluntary status more attractive? When do you intend to land with the new statute? In addition to a reform of the statutes, will you also focus on organisational reform? What steps will you take or have already been taken? Will account also be taken of the aspirations of civil security in terms of personnel, equipment and organisation? Mr Metsu referred to the discussion this morning of legislative proposals tabled, inter alia, by CdH. What steps will you take or have already been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u14	Mr Metsu, Mr Depoostere, the discussions with stakeholders on some adjustments to the administrative and financial status of firefighters, the so-called quick wins, have been concluded. On 4 February negotiations were still under way with the trade unions and a protocol of agreement will be concluded. In any case, it is my intention to bring the dossier to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. In addition to a number of legal-technical adaptations, the draft contains new provisions requiring a simplification of publication and an objectification of the composition of the jury in promotions, as well as clarifications regarding the re-employment, the application of the federal fitness attestation and the calculation of the period for honorable dismissal. In addition, a possibility is also created for firefighters to train as instructors in the zone without having an impact on the remuneration and on the holiday days. Certain changes have their origins in case law or in the amended regulations governing the federal office. For example, a few parallels with the leave systems of the federal government staff are provided for, for example, in the matter of mourning leave. Compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases shall be made uniform. From now on, for example, we provide a 100 % cover for those who are victims of an accident at work or an occupational disease. Finally, measures have also been taken for the benefit of volunteers. In practical terms, this is a relaxation of the mobility period, the possibility of remaining a volunteer in the original zone when moving through mobility or professionalisation to another zone, the right to a termination fee if one does not end up being appointed in a professionalisation procedure and the improvement of the seniority calculation. In any case, I would like to make volunteering more attractive and to maintain and even increase the number of volunteers in the aid zones. The improvements are a harbinger of the broader actions we are currently working on. Together with our partners, we are working on, among other things, proposals concerning the adaptation of training, the acceleration of recruitment procedures and the introduction of measures that can facilitate the broad deployment of volunteers in the areas of assistance. Mr Depoostere, your last question is not entirely clear to me, but if you are referring to civil protection, I can repeat that work is currently being done on the implementation of the current civil protection staffing framework. The recruitments are ongoing and I have also provided an additional EUR 1 million in order to equip civil protection even better. This will enable new civil protection material to be purchased in 2022. You know that the mandate has also been given to evaluate the role of civil protection. That study has now begun and we will certainly be able to discuss it with you in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u15	Madam Minister, I did not expect a better answer. I am very pleased that you, too, continue to highlight the role of firefighter. It's also a bit peculiar to the area where you and I live. Of the 900 employees there are 800 volunteers. We must continue to cherish them. I understand from your answer that it does not fall on a cold stone and that you have actively absorbed it. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u16	Madam Minister, I am adding Mr Metsu's words on the status of the voluntary fire brigade. I am glad that there is a protocol agreement and that you will be going to the Council of Ministers very soon. I hope that recruitment and training will continue. My last question, which you did not fully understand, was, of course, about the reform of civil security. I know that there are investments and recruitments are ongoing. However, we must not delay this restructuring for too long, with the reform of civil security. I know it's a big package, it's a lot of work. I am, however, counting on this to be completed, as you yourself say, during the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u17	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question that has been put and to the question that has been put. However, I also need something off my chest. It makes it very difficult for us to control the government in this way, which is our core role as a Member of Parliament. Whether we belong to the majority or to the opposition does not really matter. This morning there was a worrying spectacle that the Minister was lucky enough to miss. You weren't here, but it was the CD&V group that banned us from hearing the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police. That's du jamais vu. That's never happened before and it's a shame. The National Security Plan and the National Security Strategy are coming up on 8 March. I come to my interplay and question. On 4 December 2020, we asked for an update on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Terro. Those are 620 pages that we try to follow up, but that is very difficult if we do not know which yard is at what time. We hear from other Cabinets that this stays with the Home Office. That is why I must now tell you what exactly is going on with the Terro parliamentary committee of inquiry. When can we expect a state of affairs? Soon we will commemorate the attacks of 6 years ago in Zaventem and Maalbeek. Six years is longer than a legislative term, so there is a need for some urgency here. We are very curious to see how the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which was carried at the time in Chambers, evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u18	A great deal of behind-the-scenes work is being done by all the services, especially the security and intelligence services, to implement the recommendation of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Well, there's been some work. The most important thing is that these recommendations are put into practice, to steer, adapt and change where necessary. Of course, that's a work in constant evolution. Additional recommendations have been made since the March hearings last year. The substantive preparations to update you on the state of play of the recommendations have been completed within my cabinet. During a previous discussion, a summary report was announced of the recommendations of all concerned Cabinets, including Justice and Health. That is why we are taking this further with colleagues at the moment. Afterwards, we will look at how to organise this in practice with the services of the Chamber. It goes without saying that the demand for an overview is being met. The most important thing remains that we get to work on the recommendations, no matter what happens in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u19	Hopefully that will happen. I am convinced that there is hard work behind the scenes. However, we are Members of Parliament, representatives of the people. It is our core task, in addition to legislative work, to keep up with the way in which the government is dealing with it now. The question dates from December 2020 and we are still waiting for the synthesis. So we are still waiting for a state of affairs. We would very much like to know what is happening behind the scenes, so that we can also legislate where necessary or ask you the right questions to continue to steer you in the right direction. I hope you understand that, too. This answer was a little too non-binding. I will therefore deliver a motion to the chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u20	The President: At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Koen Metsu and the response of the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the unfortunate progress of the government's communication and working methods regarding the follow-up to the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016; - considering that the Minister of the Interior was already appointed as Minister in October 2020, initially underlining the importance of this issue by making it a priority in its policy statement; - whereas at the beginning of this legislature it was also decided by the Chamber of Representatives to ensure the follow-up of the policy recommendations formulated by that parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Court further implemented this by sending a letter to the Head of Government in December 2020 asking for an update on the follow-up to those recommendations; - whereas, in March 2021, the Minister of the Interior, together with the Minister of Justice, delivered an uncoordinated, incoherent document to the Chamber of Representatives in response to that letter of December 2020. Although the Minister of the Interior had identified the follow-up of the terrorist recommendations as a priority in her policy five months before, we could not find this in her working methods with this dossier in March 2021. Not only was there a very late response to the question of the Chamber of Representatives, but also the Minister, together with her fellow Minister of Justice, delivered a chaotic follow-up document of 620 pages. This follow-up document stands full of repetitions, with passages of succession realized by the previous government, with different versions of succession made by the same service, without a clear overview of the stage of implementation of all policy recommendations. It should also be noted that the performance by both ministers on the day before the anniversary of the victims of the attacks was rather inappropriate. According to both ministers, the bulky document had to be discussed "out of respect for the victims of the attacks" as soon as possible. If it really were to be done with respect, these ministers would have delivered a proper follow-up document in the first place and would have been allocated time to look at it and analyse it; - considering that in March 2021 the N-VA Group raised the issue of the chaotic and unclear follow-up document in committee and subsequently promised the Minister of the Interior to deliver a better follow-up document by June 2021; - whereas nothing was delivered to the Chamber of Representatives in June 2021; - whereas the N-VA Group once again asked the Minister for the Interior about the updated follow-up document during the discussion of its new policy paper in November! 2021. Once again, the Minister promised a better synthesis document; - whereas, in February 2022, the Minister of the Interior, together with her fellow Minister of Justice, still failed to deliver an updated follow-up document to the Chamber; - whereas both ministers share a responsibility in this respect and thus fail to deal with the victims of the attacks and the Chamber of Representatives. asks the government - to deliver, as soon as possible, a proper, updated follow-up document to the Chamber of Representatives of the European Parliament's Committee of Inquiry's policy recommendations on terrorist attacks, out of respect for the victims of the attacks and out of respect for the institution." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Koen Metsu and the response of the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the deplorable progress of the communication and the way in which the government follows up on the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016; - Considering that the Minister of the Interior was already appointed Minister in October 2020 and that in this context she recognized from the outset the importance of the subject, calling it "priority" in her political orientation statement; - Considering that at the beginning of this Parliament, the House of Representatives also decided to ensure the follow-up of the political recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. The Chamber implemented this decision by sending a letter to the Head of Government in December 2020 requesting it to provide a status report on the follow-up to these recommendations; - Considering that in response to the letter of 20 December 2020, the Minister of the Interior provided the House of Representatives in March 2021, together with the Minister of Justice, with an uncoordinated and uncoordinated document. Although five months earlier the Minister of the Interior had still considered the follow-up to the recommendations on terrorism as a priority of her policy, in March 2021 no trace of them could be found in her approach to the matter. In addition to the fact that the response to the House of Representatives' request was very late, the minister provided her colleague, the Minister of Justice, with an extremely confused follow-up document of 620 pages. This follow-up document included many repetitions, as well as passages on the follow-up made by the previous government and various versions of follow-up carried out by the same service, all without providing a clear overview of the implementation phase of all the political recommendations... It should also be noted that the show given by the two ministers on the eve of the day of commemoration of the victims of the attacks was rather inadequate. According to the two ministers, the voluminous dossier had to be examined "as soon as possible, out of respect for the victims of the attacks". If they had really wanted to act in a respectful manner, the two ministers would first have provided a proper follow-up document for the review and analysis, which would have been given the necessary time; Whereas, in March 2021, the N-VA Group addressed in committee the problem posed by this confused and confused follow-up document and which the Minister of the Interior then undertook to provide in June 2021 a better quality follow-up document; - Considering that in June 2021 no documents were provided to the House of Representatives; - whereas the N-VA Group again requested the Minister of the Interior, during the discussion of its new policy note in November 2021, to provide the updated version of the follow-up document and that the Minister once again undertook to produce a better synthesis document; - Considering that in February 2022 the Minister of the Interior, together with her colleague from the Ministry of Justice, still failed to provide an updated follow-up document to the House; - Considering that the two Ministers share responsibility in this regard and fail to fulfil their duties towards the victims of the attacks and towards the House of Representatives; asks the government - to provide the House of Representatives with as soon as possible with an updated and worthy follow-up document of the political recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Terrorist Attacks, out of respect for the victims of these attacks and out of respect for the institution." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u21	Madam Minister, by a recent decision (on 03 January 2022), the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) requested Europol (the European Union Police Agency) to delete personal data processed outside the current legal framework. In doing so, the EDPS gives some flexibility to process the data already in his possession, before requiring them to be deleted after a certain period of time. It is my responsibility that the French Presidency of the Council, which is conducting the trialogue negotiations with the European Parliament and the European Commission on new rules governing Europol, has just proposed a text which includes a "circumvention solution" to enable Europol to retain large quantities of personal data which it is currently processing illegally. The text prepared by the Presidency would include a new Article 74a in EU Regulation 2016/794, aimed at finding a solution to circumvent the recent EDPS decision. The Presidency's proposal aims to enable agencies and States that have illegally provided data to Europol to give their consent for their ongoing processing under the new rules, which would legalise existing illegal practices, with retroactive effect! The Presidency text also includes proposals that seriously undermine the independence of a new Fundamental Rights Delegate (FRO) proposed to Europol. The Council would like the ORF to be appointed on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Agency, and that the ORF be "in principle already a member of the existing staff of the Agency": in plain terms, and even if it seems unlikely, what Europe is proposing is that the Rule Controller be an employee of the audited body... Has Belgium supported or supported the position of the Council Presidency to legalize the collection and use of illegal data with retroactive effect? Does it support the possibility of an internal appointment by the agency of a person responsible for fundamental rights who will have to monitor his peers and will be anything but independent? What is Belgium's assessment of the EDPS's request to Europol to delete non-Annex II data? I know the trialogue met on February 1st. I would also like to ask you what was finally the decision taken at this trialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u22	Mr Vajda, with regard to the first question, I would point out that the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) never declared that Europol had dealt with information illegally. He also insisted on this point at his hearing before the LIBE Committee on 1 February. My answer to this question can therefore only be negative. I would add that at present, and the EDPS has also indicated this, the Europol Regulation does not contain any explicit provisions on the processing of such data. The EDPS himself is aware that when he receives a complex set of data, Europol cannot determine whether or not they can be linked to the mandatory data categories. The decision taken by the EDPS at the beginning of the year relates only to the time limit within which Europol must link the data concerned to these categories. The EDPS therefore does not claim at any time that Europol could neither obtain nor process this information nor that Europol acted in bad faith. Furthermore – and I want to be very clear – Europol has always worked in full transparency vis-à-vis the data control authorities, both the Joint Supervisory Authority from 2014 and the EDPS thereafter. The proposal for a revision of the Europol Regulation fills this gap and, in this context, I am of the opinion that the EDPS's signal has come in time and has helped to ensure that clear rules on this matter are laid down in the new version of the Europol Regulation. As far as the second question is concerned, I can tell you that Belgium, like all the other Member States of the European Union, has agreed on the compromise to appoint a fundamental rights officer within Europol. Indeed, unlike Frontex for example, Europol remains an agency without executive competence that provides support to the request of the Member States of the European Union, mainly in the context of the exchange of information. On the latter, the EDPS clearly provides for Europol to be checked. For the third question, I refer you to the answers I gave to the first question, adding the following. Europol indicated that it would apply the EDPS's decision. It has already drafted and implemented a comprehensive action plan in accordance with the EDPS's injunctions. This plan has already been widely discussed and monitored by the EDPS. Contrary to your insinuated question, the EDPS did not request the deletion of this data but left Europol six months to process the new data and twelve months to process the information already available to it. Europol quickly took up this task. Finally, on 1 February last the Presidency of the Council and the European Parliament reached provisional agreement on the draft regulation amending the Europol Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers, even if they do not satisfy me. While it is true that the European Controller said at some point that Europe may not have acted unlawfully so far, he still said that the situation was more than embarrassing and that it should be regularised. That is why I believe that failure to get in order will, in any case, constitute illegality if it does not already constitute it for the past. So I am really not satisfied with that answer. I hear that Belgium is quite part of this categorization. I am particularly surprised that European law considers, even if Europol is not considered to be an agency with executive powers, that a control element can be integrated into the controlled element. In this regard, I would like to remind you – as you know very well, of course – that Europe has threatened Belgium with an infringement procedure for lack of independence in some of its institutions. I really wonder if Europe considers itself beyond the advice it gives to its Member States. I really hope that we can return to a situation that is much more tranquil and respectful of the independence of each of the institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u24	Mr President, Minister, recently an article in the weekly magazine Humo showed that the world's largest surveillance company, the Chinese Hikvision, could easily have access to potentially sensitive data. It is therefore worrying that various public services, such as Fedasil, local authorities and police zones, use Chinese cameras. As the Chinese Security Act obliges each company to cooperate in the collection of data for the central government, vigilance is needed. In Australia and Taiwan, military forces removed Hikvision from their networks because they were concerned about national security. Washington also decided in 2019 to replace all Dahua and Hikvision cameras in the federal government buildings. There is even a total trade embargo, including for the private sector. What steps will you take to identify and, if necessary, address the potential security risks? Do the security services have contracts with Hikvision and/or Dahua? Following the article in Humo, have certain customers of Hikvision cameras - local authorities, police zones, public administrations, etc. - contacted your services? Has the CCB issued guidelines for the use of such cameras by the security services? Do you have an overview of brands and camera types that the security services use?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u25	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that Mr Vandenput has also taken care of this dossier, because we certainly cannot minimize it, quite the contrary. I have been asking questions about this for weeks now, including your fellow Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne, who is currently drawing up an inventory of these cameras. When I heard that, I was slightly remodeled because the minister could not tell which of his services which brand of camera hung and how they are connected. That question was asked again on 26 January 2022. There was no answer then. Meanwhile, the Secretary of Defense has already replied that there are no cameras of Hikvision or Dahua on the Defense Department. I find that strange because my sources claim something else. So we will go into that in more detail. There are also, of course, police commissaries, supermarkets, asylum centres, schools, hospitals and buildings of the federal and Flemish authorities. Mr Vandenput is right, as I have said many times in the past, you can be pretty sure that China is watching and perhaps even listening to those critical infrastructures. The word 'espionage' has already been mentioned in certain articles, as well as in the article in question in Humo. What worries me very much is that no one in the government really knows where they hang or is very difficult to answer that question. That is why I am asking my specific question. Which buildings in which services within your jurisdiction, such as police commissaries, department buildings or public buildings, are today equipped in Belgium with cameras of the type in question? Are there any critical infrastructures equipped with those cameras? We think of Dahua* and Hikvision*.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only be able to speak for the police about the security of the systems purchased and deployed by the federal police. As you know, for the local police, the mayor is the competent controller. So I can't involve the local hatch in my answer. The federal police involved a total of 445 cameras of the Dahua and Hikvision brands or revised models through the market electronic security of the Buildings Regie. Most of the systems already in place are installed on their own network. They have no connection to the Internet in any way. Sometimes certain images are sent via their own network to a delocalized location, but this happens only in a very small number of cases. In any case, the federal police will take the appropriate measures not to allow any intervention from the suppliers of the cameras. For the overall risk analysis of the systems and any warnings or guidelines relating to them, I refer you to the Centre for Cybersecurity, which, as you know, operates under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister, as it has the specific cross-cutting mission to threaten the cyber security of both public and private! but also to analyse criminal networks. For the critical infrastructures referred to in the law of 1 July 2011, I would like to refer to the relevant sectoral authorities. Critical infrastructure operators are required by law to develop a security plan with the aim of preventing and reducing precise risks by taking permanent security measures, as well as gradual security measures in relation to the threat. Sectoral authorities are required by law to carry out inspections. Of course, we are also aware of the risks of espionage within the Ministry or Department of the Interior, including for critical infrastructures. That is why I am supporting my colleague, the Minister of Justice, on the issue of the screening of foreign investment. The National Crisis Centre is already carrying out a verification of a possible link with Belgium, in particular with vital sectors and/or critical infrastructure, for any foreign investment in other EU Member States notified by the FPS Economy. The Crisis Centre then systematically informs the FPS Economy about this. Also for the cooperation agreement at Belgian level, which is currently being worked on at the initiative of the Minister for Economic Affairs, it will be important to carry out an investigation every time with the entire intelligence and security community. In the buildings of ASTRID, the telecom operator for the relief and security services in Belgium, there are no Chinese-made cameras on the basis of the information I now have. The cameras are also extra secure and only available within your own network. There's no way to connect to those cameras from the outside world. This also applies to the cameras that ASTRID installed in the data centers. The cameras installed in the Park Atrium building of the FOD Home Office, where the General Board of Identity and Civil Affairs is located, are Chinese made. There too, the risk of espionage is limited, as the cameras are not connected to the Internet. The other buildings of the FPS Interior, excluding the buildings under the authority of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, are not equipped with Chinese-origin cameras according to the available information. The FANC doesn't use Chinese security cameras for the security of its offices. The Agency has already stated that neither the Doel nuclear power station nor the Tihange nuclear power plant use Chinese companies' surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u27	I'm in favour of technology to guarantee our safety, as are you. However, we fit in to get involved in Chinese situations. Your answer is going that way anyway. The inventory the Minister of Justice is drawing up is necessary. It reassures me that some buildings under your responsibility would not have Chinese cameras. However, we must also be realistic and pragmatic, the construction of cameras throughout our country is a very hybrid system. The different police zones sometimes buy them themselves, sometimes using framework contracts and the like. We don't have a visual on that. We should send a letter to the police zones and the mayors asking them to draw up an inventory of their own, to make sure they don't use those cameras. The screening of foreign investment is very important. Chinese buy up everything these days or get involved in everything. Even if Chinese took a minority stake in a European company and then used their technology there, the result is the same. We have to be very careful about that. Proximus does not put active components in the core of their network that are Chinese made. Huawei just can't get in there. Perhaps we should keep the Chinese, especially in terms of security and possible espionage activities, out of our networks as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clear figures. At some point, you literally said that the risk of espionage is limited. So that means it's not out of the question. There's definitely a risk of espionage. That reminded me of another question, which I was not allowed to ask you so long ago in connection with the Chinese drones. These are, of course, Chinese cameras, for which the federal police have now placed a new order and on which you said that they will no longer be used for certain matters. That is partly to acknowledge that there is a danger. Such cameras are just to ensure our safety and we should not be wondering if anyone is watching or listening. Madam Minister, you will then reply that they are not connected to the Wi-Fi network, but I believe that Chinese technology has evolved, and not only Chinese technology in the meantime, so that a direct connection or connection with Wi-Fi is no longer necessary to establish a connection. I understand that this is being done and that we are therefore at least aware of the danger. I also hear that the risk of espionage is limited: there is some reluctance from that. I do not suspect you of being naive, and I therefore hope that you will continue to deal with this adequately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u29	Madam Secretary, you know that the nuisance in some recreational areas is an old one. You have taken a big, important step in that direction. That's what friend and enemy have to admit. You have been working on entering a blacklist so that the amokmakers can be portrayed and access to those recreational areas can be denied. However, this remains a dead letter if nothing happens in practice. I quote from the report of the Safety and Prevention Directorate: "Centrally, the findings state the absence of any kind of surveillance in three quarters of the controlled sites, 74.1%, which were open and publicly accessible at the time of inspection" and it is noted that, "where a form of surveillance was organised, this is often done by untrained or screened employees." I find this problematic, Madam Secretary. That is why I would like to ask you a few questions. What initiatives will you take to further sensitise recreational areas about taking necessary preventive measures? How will you support, guide and follow them in this? What initiatives will you take to promote and facilitate the deployment of surveillance companies or the establishment of an internal monitoring service for sensitive recreational areas? Will you also support them financially for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u30	Mr Depoostere, we did indeed issue a new letter last summer concerning the nuisance in recreational areas and recreational areas. The previous version of the letter dated 2006. In preparation for the new circular, surveys were conducted with relevant stakeholders to get a picture of the current situation and the measures taken and desirable in relation to the organisation of activities in recreational areas. A number of working groups have also examined the problem of preparing the new letter as well and as adapted as possible. In the meantime, we have already discussed this in committee, including mayors, governors, domain managers, prevention workers and police zones, because, as we announced, we will examine, on the basis of the results of the survey, what additional measures could be taken and what would be desirable in relation to the organisation of recreational areas. It is important to know how they see things and to take into account the experience of visitors to the recreational areas. I mentioned earlier that I have a lot of confidence in dealing with nuisances by the municipalities and recreational areas. They know the hotspots, they know best what is appropriate and are therefore best placed to judge whether certain measures are necessary in specific circumstances. The purpose of the circular is to be a guide and to provide a toolbox to local authorities and domain operators about the resources they can use to prevent nuisances. Of course, recreational domains that consider it necessary can increase security in the domains, for example by using private surveillance. As you know, there is also a state-general of private surveillance currently under way, where consideration will be given to improving this. Those two exercises can, of course, be parallel.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u31	Madam Secretary, I'm still a little hungry. I had started: the letter is a good thing and a step forward. Since 2006, steps have finally been taken to try to ensure safety in the recreational areas. Once again, that remains a dead letter if there is no real commitment in practice. You put the ball expertly in the stakeholder camp, in this case the municipalities and the managers of the recreational areas. They undoubtedly play an important role in this, but the federal government still has the power to enforce public law. This is in your hands and you can also offer more support. You are talking about a survey of stakeholders to conclude whether new measures are needed. Here too, I'm still hungry. How long has this interview been going on? When will she be completed? Is there any prospect of new measures? You still have the answer to that. Of course, I am aware that there is a state-general in the private surveillance companies. I hope that there will be additional solace, because if the practice shows that the letter cannot be applied because, for example, there is no sufficient legal framework for monitoring the domains, then I fear that the nuisance will continue and increase, while the opposite is intended by everyone. I will continue to follow this up and ask you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u32	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u33	Mr Depoostere, I can tell you that the whole range of measures adopted against the spread of the covid virus has in no way affected the application of the law regulating private and special security. During the initial period, checks found that some of the businesses organised activities that were not in conformity with this law in order to ensure compliance with the measures. For example, checks carried out have led to records of commercial cases which organised access control on the basis of the covid measures in a non-regulatory manner. This was done, inter alia, by having access control carried out by specially hired staff who did not meet the conditions of the law. In view of these findings, the measures in force were addressed to important partners and professional associations such as Comeos and UNIZO. It reiterated the powers of each partner in accordance with the rules in force. For example, the Covid Safe Ticket rules clearly determine who can carry out which control. Generally speaking, the conduct of surveillance activities, including access control, which fall within the scope of the Act regulating private and special security can only be carried out by a person with the necessary permits and qualifications. The competent inspection services ensure continuous monitoring of these activities and, of course, also take account of actuality and social reality when planning control actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I will make no secret that my party is absolutely not in favour of the CST, which you do know. One of the reasons for this is that citizens are allowed to control other citizens. Your answer sounds good, but allow me to quote from a report from your own administration: "Since the publication of the measures to be implemented, the provision has been implemented to ensure compliance with those measures by means of specific and targeted checks on the persons present." I specifically refer to the following sentence: "The very general communication that was distributed from the federal government left much room for misinterpretation and is contrary to the law governing private and special security." So I can only hope for two things. My first hope is the end of this pandemic, which perhaps everyone hopes for. Secondly, I particularly hope that the CST will be removed. Follow the example of the Netherlands, where the CST pass will be abolished next month. I hope the same thing happens here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u35	Mr Parent is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u36	Laugh gas is a compound between nitrogen and oxygen, formerly known as an anaesthetic in surgery. The gas is also used in the food industry and is therefore freely available on the market. After inhaling that gas, it drives the oxygen out of the lungs. As with many other volatile sniffing agents, the result is almost immediately a euphoric rush, often with laughing and giggling showers, to which the gas owes its name. The rush after that takes a few minutes. The gas is not included in Article 37a of the Road Police Act, which includes the list of substances, in addition to alcohol, which affect the ability to drive. The inhalation of nitrous oxide in itself does not constitute an infringement of the law, but the behaviour behind the wheel can be punished if one finds a similar state of drunkenness. The police database makes no distinction in the state of drunkenness caused by alcohol, drugs or medicines. In addition, and for this reason, no figures are available regarding the use of nitrous oxide while driving a vehicle. Given the volatility of the product, it is only possible to establish it in the act and its proactive actions do not make much sense. The police are indeed well informed about the dangers of the use of nitrous oxide in traffic. Where police authorities have evidence that nitrous oxide has been used, e.g. finding capsules in the vehicle, when determining a traffic accident, this information shall be included in the record of the findings. Information obtained from the NICC toxicology department shows that nitrous oxide cannot be detected in the saliva, the exhaled air or urine. A method for detecting nitrous oxide in the blood has been described, but this can only be done for overdoses. The difficulty with nitrous oxide is that it is eliminated very quickly from the body, making it difficult and almost impossible to detect. Nor can a blood test be carried out because it is not included in the Road Traffic Act. The possession of nitrous oxide or its transport in limited quantities is not prohibited by law today. However, several municipalities have included a ban on ownership in their municipal regulations and may impose administrative sanctions on municipal authorities. This also happens in certain cases for the transport of nitrous oxide from certain quantities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u37	Madam Secretary, I know that this is a difficult problem. You mentioned the reasons for this. Laughing gas is hard to detect. Studies by VIAS show that in several major accidents, nitrous capsules were found in the AudiTT. So it's not without danger. We must follow the example of the Netherlands, where we can ban the recreational use of nitrous oxide. To this end, legislative initiatives must be taken. I know that such initiatives do not fall within your competence immediately. However, I know that several proposals have been put forward in the Committee on Health. It's too bad, because I'm not too bad for banning anything and anything. If, however, the remedy can better help to eradicate the disease and avoid serious road accidents, Parliament must take responsibility for this. I thank you in advance for the explanations you have given for your powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u38	As discussed earlier in this committee, the pedigree according to the birth certificate is currently displayed on the kids ID. The suggestion to mention persons with parental authority is certainly valuable, but it also implies that any change in parental authority requires an adjustment and therefore a replacement of that kids ID. Listing only the surviving parent or the last parental authority would require legislative and technical adjustment, as well as new cases of renewal of the kids ID and the practical problems associated with it. I can also imagine that the surviving parent sometimes prefers that the deceased husband should still be mentioned on the kids ID as the father or mother of the child. The pedigree as stated on the birth certificate appears to be the most immutable information for the child. As for your question about keeping the data, I would like to inform you that the central file of the identity cards contains both the information on the kids ID and the information on the eID. As I mentioned in my answer to question 55022071C, when a parent dies, it is not necessary under the current regulations to replace the kids ID. There is therefore no need to generate lists per municipality for the situation where a parent listed on a child ID dies. The National Register provides each municipality with a monthly list of the residents who hold a kids ID whose expiry date is approaching. Since the legislator has not defined the kids ID as a mandatory identity document, there is no absolute obligation for the municipalities to warn their residents that a kids ID is approaching the expiry date.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u39	Previously, you had informed us that your services would check whether it was possible to remedy the evidence of death, to avoid painful situations with which parents who have lost their partner are confronted when travelling. So that will not happen in the future. I regret that. There is also a need for adjustments within the framework of parental authority and so on. Family situations change very regularly and it is important to look at them. I understand that municipalities are not obliged to send a letter if the kids ID expires. At times, however, the kids ID is requested. In Ghent, that letter will be sent. That is a very good example of customer friendliness for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u40	Madam Secretary, we saw hallucinating footage from Peer, where a cop who controlled traffic got stabbed by a 12-year-old. In the meantime, the juvenile judge placed that young person in a semi-open institution for three months, because in this country one can only go to a closed institution for 14 years. I am aware that there is such a thing as juvenile delinquency law, a competence of the Communities, but I still have a few questions for you. Our concern is primarily with the condition of the agent concerned. Do you have any more information about that? Is he unfit for work? How long? Do you know if the local corps will set itself a bourgeois party in order to defend the officer's legal position? Was the officer offered sufficient psychological assistance? I also have two questions that need to be asked at Flemish level, but on which I would like to hear your opinion. Do you think that the handout, for which the age is currently 16, should be reviewed? Should this age be reduced in order to better protect society and the agent in this respect? Will you, as Minister for the Interior, take initiatives to engage in dialogue with the Minister for Justice with the relevant ministers of the Communities? If so, when will you do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u41	The facts that have happened in Peer have touched me deeply, as I said before. Even when the unsub is found to be young, the facts remain completely unacceptable. Whether they are policemen confronted with violence by drunk or drugged persons, by rioters who deliberately seek confrontation with the police, or by young people who do not accept the authority of the police, violence against policemen is in no way permitted. Never. No way. As regards recent events in the Kempenland police zone, I have had contact with Mayor and colleague Steven Matheï. I have heard that the district inspector has since left the hospital, but the recovery will obviously take some time. The mayor also assured me that the corps will remain in close contact with the district inspector, to offer him the best possible psychosocial framework. Support from the stress team of the federal police, the victim care department, and the occupational health service are also possible, not only for the victim, but also for the team that is faced with the violence against a colleague. It goes without saying that several colleagues have also been greatly seized by the facts and must therefore also be able to count on assistance. The police area of Kempenland also provides full legal aid for their colleague. A bourgeois standoff is currently under consideration. As you know, I support these initiatives. After all, we must do everything we can to punish violence properly. As far as the age of the handout is concerned, you were right to say that it falls within the competence of the Communities. So I will not speak on that today. However, we must do everything in our power to address and assist young people who commit such acts in an appropriate way, so that we can avoid such facts in the future and so that the measures that are being taken not only strengthen, but also provide the young people with the right and appropriate assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u42	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that the police area of Kempenland is considering bourgeois parties and that the agent has received sufficient assistance, including from the federal level. I am very pleased with all of this. There's something I need to get off my chest, though. We note that more and more of the perpetrators of acts of violence are getting younger and three-star operations are taking place. Unfortunately, it is no longer an exception that someone under 16 is acting very violently. We see this not only in front of police officers, but also in many cities. We must therefore take action. You must enter into dialogue on this matter with the Ministers of the Communities and with the Minister of Justice. If we want to put an end to such phenomena, the perpetrators must tell you that they themselves are rightly punished in an appropriate manner, but the question is what is the appropriate way. In the case I mentioned, there's a 12-year-old perpetrator and facts that can be catalogued as an attempted manslaughter. The unsub is placed in a half-open facility for three months. I am asking myself the question, and I believe that society is doing so too, whether that is an appropriate way to punish such young criminals. We need to think about that. The policy-makers have a responsibility in this and I think that you should be able to provide an appropriate response in dialogue with the ministers of the Communities and with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Leoni's 55024810C lapses as she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u44	Mrs. Hugon is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u45	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, of course I have been amazed to see the images of the rioters and casters at the corona demonstrations. I have also taken note of the statements made by the Mayor of Brussels on the measures that can be taken. It is clear that the violence used in the demonstrations cannot be accepted and that those who commit violence must be punished in an appropriate manner. We immediately took the glove. We are currently examining with the services how we can provide additional resources to administrative authorities, including local authorities, in addition to the resources they already have, in order to act and take appropriate and targeted measures with regard to a often small group of people who abuse demonstrations to cause violence, to stir up riots and to endanger public order. They come not so much with a message, but with a view to causing violence and harm. We are also examining, together with the Minister of Justice, what administrative and legal sanctions are appropriate. In addition, the sanction should also be considered in the light of fundamental rights, in particular the right to argue and the right to freedom of expression, which should also be protected. The measures taken must therefore be without prejudice to that fundamental right. It also raises questions for the whole of the territory: what demonstrations, where, how long can this measure last? Those are questions that need to be considered. In this sense, the football law, which currently provides for stadium bans, is not just transparent to demonstrations. This is a different location, for other reasons and so on. Today, a mayor can pronounce such a ban, but can it have an extraterritorial effect on other demonstrations? A demonstration in Brussels is a different story than a demonstration in Liège. Football stadiums, on the other hand, are clearly defined locations with a limited number of entrances. The enforcement of stadium bans can therefore be enforced much more efficiently. By the way, the notification requirement under the football law was deleted by the last amendment because it proved virtually impossible. As I said, the administration, together with us, is examining the various possibilities for dealing better with violence by rioters. It is also logical that we should also involve the Public Prosecutor in that consultation, as well as Justice, Mayor Close and the police. We have set up a project, New way of protesting, in which 8 working groups work around different themes. We are aiming for so-called quick wins in the short term, but more structural proposals in the longer term will also be discussed. In addition, the reports of the AIG and the latest findings of the law enforcement services are also taken into account. In this way, my question will soon be the subject of an interim report by the steering committee, with a state of play and the first proposals. Moreover, this method is of international interest. Similar incidents have taken place in Germany, the Netherlands, France and even now in Luxembourg. The exchange of information with foreign police services on a particular demonstration takes place in accordance with the existing national and international regulatory framework and through the channels and practices set out therein. Depending on the file, information can be exchanged through the SPOC of the Executive Board of international police cooperation, the police and customs cooperation centres or an operational incursion point in the border regions. Improving the exchange of information, both nationally and internationally, is also a subject we are looking at in the context of the New way of protesting project. In conclusion, as regards yesterday's convoy, I would like to point out that the international exchange of police information was going well, so that we could use the information on that convoy as best we could in our approach to the security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u46	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Madam Secretary, for your comprehensive answer. I would also like to congratulate you, as well as the governors and mayors, on the smooth running of the event. The preparations since last Thursday for the Liberation Convoy not to block everything here have proved conclusive. There is also good communication. The approach can serve as an example, as well as the exchange of information, and how police and administrative authorities have worked together to avoid a catastrophe. So far, there are some reservations in the margins. ! I strongly believe in the instrument of a ban on places for people who commit repeated acts. Hooligans who have already crossed the line on several occasions are also banned from the stadium. I am sure that the rioters will be at the end of a demonstration in Brussels, but it might as well be in Liège or in Antwerp. Always the same people coming after that kind of demonstration. So we need to work on identifying those people and make them aware that they are not wanted at certain times and are not allowed in certain places. Of course, the football law cannot be taken over, I agree with you, but we can apply the principles out of it. It is important not to allow those people to take part in demonstrations anymore. Facial recognition and blacklists can be used, preferably not with Chinese-made cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u47	Madam Minister, I asked you, following an uplifting Panoreportage in March 2021, about unlawful violence by a small part of our agents, how you would deal with such incidents, without losing confidence in the police. A police chief had indicated that he had insufficient resources to get the rotten apples out of his basket. There was therefore a need for a political initiative. You then stated that you had heard very well the call for a review of disciplinary law and police training and announced that you would examine the reform of disciplinary law, which is very complex given the numerous procedures, deadlines and disciplinary authorities, together with the trade unions. A new right of disciplinary action was already put on the agenda when the States-General of the police was launched. On the disciplinary law, you stated in your explanatory statement to the policy letter that the police working group had already completed its work. That's good news. However, there were still some important partners to be questioned, including the Disciplinary Board and the General Inspection. The Integrated Police Coordination Committee would then validate the proposals, after which they would be presented to you. Afterwards, you would formally launch the negotiation process with the syndicated partners. Madam Minister, first of all, what were the findings of the police working group after the completion of the work? Secondly, were the Disciplinary Board and the General Inspectorate already questioned? If so, what was the outcome? Thirdly, have the plans been presented to you? Finally, do you have a specific timing in which you want to complete the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u48	Mrs. Chanson is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u49	The work of the disciplinary working group, consisting of four local police and four federal police officers, has not yet been approved internally by the federal police. The findings of this working group will be submitted to the Federal Police Management Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee in the coming weeks. Only when the integrated police have taken a common position will the General Inspection and the Disciplinary Board be consulted. My cabinet doesn't go there until after the thinking exercises have been completed with the police. As soon as the sectoral agreement is complete, there is now an interim agreement - the right of disciplinary action must also be discussed with the trade unions. They are, of course, an essential partner in their reform. It must be our common ambition to reform this right of disciplinary action into an instrument that benefits both the staff and the organisation and contributes to the attractiveness of the police. Once the principles of the new disciplinary system have been laid down, they must be registered in a new KB, which will implement the new procedures. I cannot yet say exactly when consultation on this matter will take place with the trade unions, which are clearly our partners in achieving our ambition of disciplinary justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Looks like I'm early with these questions. I will have to put them back in a few weeks or months to know the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Amico's 55024886C is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Ms Matz's 55024928C was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u52	Madam Secretary, the reason for my question is a column by Samira Atillah, a journalist from De Morgen. She mentioned the increasing violence she experienced as a journalist. Anonymous threatening phones, racist dredging and even death threats were almost daily for her. Journalism is a dangerous profession, even in our country. Online and physical violence is increasing. During a demonstration against the corona measures in December, a journalist of the RTBF was even brutally tackled by rioters. Today, the VRT chooses to protect journalists reporting demonstrations by sending them there with neutral microphones. Our country has a strong journalistic tradition and we are still high in the rankings for freedom of the press. The growing violence against journalists is one of the things that could threaten the freedom of the press in the coming decades. We must do everything we can to protect the fourth power and guarantee the safety of journalists. Madam Secretary, is it true that the insecurity of journalists in our country is increasing? Are there any objective figures on the problem? Are complaints of physical violence against and online threats to journalists registered separately by the police? How many complaints against journalists were registered after the corona demonstrations? Will you take concrete action to improve the safety of our journalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, within the police nomenclature, there is no specific fact-finding qualification for violence against journalists, as is the case for the success of a police officer, a medical profession or a staff member of a public transport company. However, when a report is drawn up, an appeal may be linked to the status of a person, the suspect, or, where appropriate, the victim. Based on the information in the police database ANG, it is therefore not possible to indicate how many complaints are registered after corona demonstrations. My services are working to obtain this information in the future. The increasing violence against journalists can be tackled in different ways. On the one hand, it is being examined whether it is desirable for journalists to wear special clothing during demonstrations so that they can be more easily identified by police forces, but also by protesters and rioters. Of course, if this choice is made, the police and security services can then be sensitized to uniform clothing. On the other hand, the European Commission's recommendations on this issue are further analysed. For example, prior to a planned protest or demonstration, liaison officers may be chosen to inform journalists of possible risks. In any case, it is also necessary to promote dialogue between cybersecurity authorities and the media sector so that the cyber-consciousness and digital skills of journalists can be further developed so that they can use that information on the ground. The resilience of journalists can also be enhanced by taking targeted training, for example on how to behave in the event of aggression or online harassment. Finally, the possibility of introducing heavier penalties for violent crimes against journalists is also being considered and examined. The problem will also be considered in the project new way of protesting, which we have already discussed before. In the short term, we have also planned consultations with the Flemish Minister of Media to see how we can even better arm journalists against such facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u54	Madam Minister, I welcome your answer, because I hear you think it is a very important issue that you are working on. At the moment there is no specific report on violence against journalists, which means that we have no idea what the figures are, but you said that it is perhaps the intention to make a separate report in the future. I believe that society should be able to see when journalists are threatened. They are, after all, an important pillar of our rule of law and democracy, so I am sure that you will look into it and take action on it. You have also listed a number of other measures, such as allowing journalists to wear identifiable clothes so that the police can distinguish who is a journalist and who is not during a demonstration. The question is how this can be worked out in practice. It can be said that the resilience of journalists should be increased, but the message to society must also be clear that we do not tolerate violence against journalists, that journalists should be able to do their work at all times and that they should feel protected and safe in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u55	Madam Secretary, in August, you announced that there would be more severe penalties for football supporters holding pyrotechnic material. An extended stadium ban and a higher fine for users of Bengal's fire, flares and others is necessary. Conditions such as firefighters that can cause permanent hearing damage or firing flares towards rival supporters cores should be removed. Fortunately, there are once again fans in the football stages, soon even without a mouth mask. We must not let the atmosphere in the football stadium be spoiled again by a number of hotheads being treated too laxly. As you said, Minister, football is and must remain a party. How are you doing with your announced bill for the amendment of the football law? When will this bill be discussed in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u56	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, the answer to the problem of the use or abuse of pyrotechnic articles in or around the football stages and, by extension, the fight against violence, racism and discrimination cannot come only from the public authorities through an amendment of the football law or its sanctions. It is my firm belief that the organisers of football matches will remain the primary responsibility for security in the stadiums. That is why I have expressed great expectations with regard to the Pro League, but also with regard to the football association. I am therefore very pleased that they have not changed my words and are currently finalising, in consultation with the services, a global vision paper and its translation into a concrete action plan for the stadiums at a time when all supporters, both from and from the home, are being admitted again and the problems could be raised again. Let us hope not, but if we look at autumn, that is certainly not excluded. I want to play my part in that too. That is why we had drawn up the preliminary draft law, which lays down stricter penalties for the use and possession of pyrotechnics. In the meantime, the preliminary draft has been adapted to the opinion of the Council of State. We'll get on with it. We must do so in good consultation and consider what measures are appropriate. It is even more important than the preliminary draft law that each partner, from his or her role and powers, will carry out and implement the actions and measures contained in the action plan, so that we can stop incidents. I cannot therefore give you a specific answer to the question of when we will come to Parliament with the draft. It is an important matter. It is important that we find a basis for this, in which we do the right things, in order to guarantee security. Of course, I will inform you at the appropriate time when we will come to Parliament with the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u57	Thank you for the update, Madam Secretary. You have taken good steps by sitting with the organizers, the Pro League and the football union. I am pleased to hear that there is a vision plan that will result in an action plan. This afternoon I also saw a message from Mr Demon passing that there will be higher fines and so on. Let us be clear, we will certainly support a draft law in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u58	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 January we began an exchange on the Art and Antiquities Unit of the Federal Judicial Police. At the time, I wanted to make you aware of both the importance of international trafficking in works of art and antiquities, the importance of the sums brewed, and the links and connections with organized crime and terrorist networks. Similarly, I wanted to stress the importance – in my view – of this unit specializing in art and antiquities within the judicial police as well as the need for a federal point of contact to coordinate and gather all information, everything that is done in economic affairs, security, within the regions and by local police. I also wanted to go back to our international obligations with the data bank. Since then, the issue and debate have evolved in society. Then came the media release of the president of the College of Attorneys General, who goes in this direction and who says that "it would be madness to suppress this Arts and Antiquities cell." I am aware that this issue is also part of a broader debate on the means of the judicial police, and that is not my subject because I am not a regular member of this committee. I will therefore not elaborate on the subject, and other colleagues will certainly do so. As regards the statement made by our colleague, Mr Dallemagne, in plenary session, I do not say either that it was the Minister of the Interior who took a decision. I think it is necessary to distinguish between policy decisions and operational decisions, in the same way as at the level of a local police, the mayor has a political responsibility on the choices of the area, and the divisional commissioner has an operational responsibility. I think we're in the same register. That said, you were absent in plenary but through your colleague Mr. Van Peteghem, we have read your answer. This gives me some satisfaction when you say that the fight against the theft of works of art and antiquities will be part of the project of a new National Security Plan, which is being developed and debated, I imagine. In my view, this is a break with your predecessor, Mr. Jambon, who considered that this was not a priority. Mr. De Crem, on the other hand, did not agree. He wanted to strengthen the resources. Then you say that this is a unilateral decision of the judicial police that is inappropriate and that you are going to discuss it with her. Here are my questions. Will police officers be appointed to this cell in the short term, given the retirement of the two officers? This has no financial impact. Two officers retire and are replaced by two others. There is obviously a need for CALOG support for data encoding in the database. We need an operational computer service. At this level, there have been difficulties in achieving something worthwhile. This is my request for the short term. To see if, in the long run, we can strengthen it, as our colleagues in the Senate advocated after studying it thoroughly. Minister, how do you see the redeployment of this cell in 2022? What human resources will be allocated to it? Have you ever made contact with the police management on this matter? Have any decisions already been made? What about these contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u59	Mr Delizée, I have indeed sent a letter to the Federal Police asking it to reassess the decision taken in the light of the current situation. A project called DGSOC 3.0 has been launched and will study investments in various security phenomena including the theft of works of art and antiquities, in particular in the light of the future national security plan. It goes without saying that the evolution of the various crime phenomena, including the fight against radicalism and terrorism, as well as the recent Sky ECC cases, influence the management of the capacities of the Federal Judicial Police and, in particular, the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime (DJSOC). The capacities of the DJSOC were reduced during optimisations in 2014 in order to place maximum resources in the deconcentrated units of the boroughs. The limited capacity in arts and antiquities expertise maintained at the central level enabled 87 cases to be processed 2015, 67 in 2016, 55 in 2017, 64 in 2018, 85 in 2019, 42 in 2020 and 34 in 2021. These cases concern theft, fraud, forgery, concealment, international fraud concerning art, antiquities or cultural property. I will ask the federal police to be more vigilant in the future about the timely transfer of expertise and to anticipate the pension or departure of the last man from a service. I would like to assure you that several processes to combat the theft of works of art and antiquities are under way, such as, for example, reactive investigations and possible coordination within PJF district units at the request of the judiciary or local police services, the follow-up by the Directorate for International Police Cooperation (CGI) of requests for international support, the maintenance through the CGI of the exchange of information with Europol and Interpol and the monitoring of the strategy of the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you. I'm partly reassured and partly not. There are indeed elements in the way I indicate. The regional units are good, but for me to have been digging the subject for some time now, the return I have is that it really takes a central point of contact to gather all the information. We need the expertise that is not everywhere and we certainly need training. The officers who acquired the expertise have acquired it over time and also following training. So I continue to plead for a cell. I didn't understand your answer. Of course, you wrote that there was no decision yet, that it was quite recent. I understand it takes time. But I can only invite you to remain in dialogue with the police management. To my question as to whether there will always be a minimum of agents, that is, two agents in the current situation, in this specialized cell, I do not really hear an explicit answer. And that remains the central point of my concern. Didn't I get it right? Will there be a replacement of the two retired officers and a centralized unit for the federal police or the judicial police?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u62	All right. You do not have a specific answer to your request today. In any case, I support your request and I will allow myself to come back to the subject; we will give this police time to respond and the dialogue to take place, but I am counting on you. This is a good point to point out in the national security plan because this traffic has also financed networks. It is known that El Bakraoui was involved in resales of works of art stolen in Brussels. The financing of these terrorist networks must therefore be dried up. There's a very strong connection. It is a good thing if it is reflected in the priorities of the national security plan. Then we have to put it into practice by means in the cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic698x.u63	Madam Minister, I propose that the remaining questions be postponed to a next committee meeting.
