ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u1	Madam Minister, the security verification carried out by the National Security Authority, the NVO, has been a matter for some time recently, because it does not come out very well from an audit. Employees or third parties working in sensitive security environments of Defence shall be subject to screenings carried out by the ADIV on behalf of the NVO. Employees, contractors and subcontractors of construction companies responsible for the future major infrastructure projects of Defence are also subject to such screenings. If they do not go as far as they can, they can create the necessary practical problems. How many such screenings does the ADIV carry out today? How many screenings is he supposed to perform? How many persons would he need to screen in order for the construction companies concerned to be able to carry out the current works correctly? How many people will be allowed to work on the Defence sites, annually? What are the reasons for this? What projects were delayed by the lack of screenings and certificates by the NVO? Where do you put the problem? Is it the NVO or the ADIV? Does the ADIV plan provide for an extension of the department to cover any shortfalls?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u2	I would stress that the ADIV is the only competent administrative authority for screening when it comes to personnel from construction companies operating in military quarters. The NVO is not involved in that procedure. The ADIV performs all safety verification, approximately 1,200 per year. The number of persons to be screened depends on the size of the construction companies. All personnel must at least undergo security verification in order to gain access to a military quarter of an hour. For some zones, staff sometimes have to ask for security clearance. Around 10% are refused each year for judicial convictions with imprisonment. Those convictions relate mainly to drug-related crimes, serious traffic offences such as driving without a driving licence or sexual offences. On the basis of the data available to the ADIV, no construction project has been significantly delayed by safety verification. As regards the resolution of possible deficits, arising from, inter alia, the future major infrastructure projects, the ADIV does indeed provide for adjustments to its current organic table.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u3	So the ADIV is the only one responsible? After all, we hear that there is a bit of a sticking-up there every now and then. We are satisfied with your announcement that the ADIV is planning extensions in order to provide adequate performance security screenings. You didn't tell me how much extra staff is coming. In any case, it is important to separate the chaff from the wheat. Moreover, this will prevent delays in construction work on our sites now and in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u4	We have weekly meetings with the various government partners. Any demand for support is systematically checked for feasibility. However, defence does not have heavy weapons systems that it could hand over to Ukraine. The Belgian industry's ability to meet Ukraine's needs is also further monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your concise but very clear answer. This clarity avoids a spectacle as with the famous 155mm-houwissers. It also avoids Kiev expecting weapons we don't have and promising things we can't deliver.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u6	Madam Minister, the previous government stated that there would be a large economic return in many military purchase files, including the purchase of the F-35s. I quote former Minister of Economy Peeters, who said on 25 October 2018: "Besides the purchase price of EUR 3.8 billion there is a significant economic return of EUR 3.69 billion for Belgian companies. That was the ultimate argument for getting that file through. Less than four years later, it appears that the planned return will be anything but EUR 3.69 billion, but only EUR 700 million, more than 5 times less than foreseen. This is not only the case in this purchase file, but also in the purchase of armoured cars, drones and mine hunters, the return is a lot lower than expected in advance. How is this return calculated and what exactly is it about? What is the relationship between profits for the defence industry and the direct benefit for society in terms of employment and tax revenue? How come this return is always overrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u7	Mr De Vuyst, the way in which the social return of the aforementioned purchases of Defence was followed was explained by the representatives of the FPS Economy at the meeting of the Special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales on 20 April. You are requested to address your additional questions to the FPS Economy for further follow-up. I would also like to remind you that, as stated in the STAR Plan, the government has committed itself to a Defence Industry and Research Strategy for the development and support of national, scientific, technological and industrial potential in the field of security and defence. As recalled in the STAR Plan, the DIRS will contribute to promoting investment in the development of defence capabilities or research for the benefit of society in the form of knowledge, technology and employment, in accordance with existing national and European legislation. Particular attention will be paid to cooperation projects under the European Defence Fund and PESCO. The strengthening of the technological and industrial base is one of the main lines of the military programming law which I hope will be adopted by the plenary tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You refer me to the FPS Economy. You say that there is also a lot of information given in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. That is not really an answer to my question, because we are still missing the insight on the basis of which these forecasts are made. We hope that Parliament will in future gain more insight into how this return is calculated and on what data is based. You also say that you will set up a kind of new defence council, in which the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Dermagne, will also be represented in order to better align the purchase files with Belgian industry in the future and to develop a kind of Belgian military industrial complex. One is beating oneself on the chest because one wants to achieve as much economic return as possible, but I would have liked to have seen another kind of advice, for example a socio-ecological council to ensure that the challenges of climate degradation are addressed. It would be a good thing to invest in it and to achieve a great social or economic return, instead of simply continuing to invest more in the future in further militarisation of our economy and investment in the war industry, because that is what it is all about in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u9	The Lithuanian blockade of Russian goods for Kaliningrad is limited to those items on the EU penalty list. Lithuania does nothing but implement the EU's sanctions policy, just like the other EU Member States. Kaliningrad is hit harder as a small enclave without its own resources than the rest of Russia, leading to the muscular language of Russian leaders. Despite this threatening language, neither Lithuania itself nor NATO fear an escalation of the situation. The former Russian President and Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev himself dismissed the fact that Russia does not want to push things forward, because it wants to save the Lithuanian people from any hardship. It is unlikely that our detachments in the Baltic States, and in particular our contribution to enhanced forward presence in Lithuania, would be directly affected by a Russian reaction to the blockade. Russia cannot afford a confrontation with NATO and will probably do everything in its power to avoid Lithuania's recourse to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Cyber attacks, however, cannot be ruled out. This may indirectly affect local telecommunications networks. Due to the protection measures applied during operations, there is little chance that our military will encounter problems. In the light of the Russian reaction to the blockade, there is no demand for a change in the efforts of the Defense Department. Indirectly, Belgium still supports any initiative or attempt to resume diplomatic dialogue with Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u10	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We cannot deny that tensions are increasing, even if they were merely words. What you're saying is true. The sanctions maintained by Lithuania apply only to the goods on the Western penalty list, as a result of what is called the "special operation" in Russia. What worries me, and you yourself quoted Mr Medvedev, is the reaction in Russia. Russia has declared those sanctions illegal at some point and has even said that they will have serious consequences. The Kremlin spokesperson, Mr Peskov, said it was an illegal step. He announced that after a good analysis Russia will decide what the reaction will be. Medvedev also said that they will not remain without consequences. And then there is the head of the Russian space organisation, Mr Rogozin, who had a very disturbing reaction. He questioned Lithuanian borders. He even went one step further and said that Liltuwen not only shot himself in the leg, but also in the head. Then I think to myself that we should be prepared for the worst. Even though that may not be a military confrontation in the classic sense. I am pleased that you, for example in the cyber field, pay the necessary attention to prevention and preparation for a possible conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u11	Mr President, Minister, during a previous round of questions, you had already confirmed to us that two more locations are being blocked for a new barracks in East Flanders, namely Aalter and Geraardsbergen. In principle, we are not opposed to the fact that there will be a new barracks. Of course, this is also part of your distribution plan and in making Defense more attractive, including better recruitment of military personnel and making it more connected and better integrating Defence into the social fabric. In itself, therefore, we can support this vision if it is not that the two sites mentioned present a problem. The vision is in conflict with, in one case, a valuable nature reserve, being the Drongengoed forest in Aalter, and in the other case valuable agricultural land which will have to be re-destined and the spatial implementation plan that will have to be changed. There is a lot of opposition, both in Geraardsbergen and in Aalter. This has also been widely published in the media. There is also a lot of political contestation, including at local level. At present we still do not know which location it will eventually become. That's why I'm asking my questions. There are also a number of legal problems, for example, apart from the fact that valuable ecological nature reserves must be protected as far as possible. There's no question about that. Moreover, there is also the legal fact that, for example, the Drongengoed forest is covered by the Special Habitats Directive and is protected by European law. That is why I have the following questions. Has the site evaluation taken into account the impact on the surrounding valuable nature? That does not appear to be the case in itself. Has the impact on the local community been taken into account and its accessibility? If the barracks were to be placed at those locations, it would be about ten kilometres away from infrastructure. The distance to the motorway is also very large. Due to its limited accessibility, the site with about a thousand soldiers will also have an impact on the transit traffic and on the surrounding residential areas. Has there been any consideration of alternatives? Has the DOD made any effort to investigate alternatives to the designated locations in Aalter and Geraardsbergen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u12	Mr President, Vooruit is also in favour of the better spread of barracks and has supported the resolution in order to get an extra barracks in Hainaut and East Flanders. I don't know Hainaut very well, but Flanders a little better. In Flanders you will see poor spatial planning and a lack of public space. Finding a location seems like a difficult story to me. Some people understandably say that the old military airport in Aalter might be the easiest choice to build a barracks. In the meantime, however, a beautiful and even legally protected forest area has developed in that area, namely the Drongengoed forest. This not only has an important nature function, but also has an important recreational function in the region. East Flanders is not full of forests. Mr De Vuyst of the PVDA is spinning around. For Vooruit, Aalter is not a good location. Anno 2022 we certainly have to take into account the last precious green areas in Flanders. We need to think very carefully about how we use them. What statute does the area have? Is it true that this 750-hectare forest is jointly managed by Defense and ANB? What are the criteria that will play in the choice? Will the impact on the living environment be taken into account? What is the further timing of this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u13	As I replied on 15 June 2022, in the framework of the military prospecting, Defence has asked the Provincial Development Company of East Flanders for available grounds. This analysis, based on both its internal geographical information system and on the data on existing and already dedicated business sites or on areas for which a planning process is under way for their destination as business sites, available at the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agency of the Flemish government, did not prove to be available in East Flanders. Two municipalities have applied for the installation of the Quarter of the Future North, namely Geraardsbergen, with a site in Schendelbeke, and Aalter, with the military domain in Ursel. For the basic requirements and the additional criteria to which both sites were subject during the military prospecting, such as the costs of acquiring the site, I refer again to my reply of 15 June 2022. The military domain in Ursel is owned by the Ministry of Defence and not freely accessible to visitors. This domain, which is linked to the planning area of Drongengoedbos, has an area of about 180 hectares and is managed by the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Agency for Nature and Forests, in accordance with the agreement between the Belgian State and the Flemish Region concerning nature conservation and forest management in military domains of 17 April 2007. The analysis of the location and accessibility as one of the test elements should teach us to what extent employees can easily reach their place of employment. Three modes of transport were examined, in particular public transport, soft mobility and the car. The distance to the motorway was included in the analysis. If the government decides to select Aalter, a particular focus would be on improving connectivity between the train station of Aalter and the military domain. The military prospection does not include a full impact study. It will be launched after the government has made a decision on the location. The examination of alternatives will be considered when the procedures are completed, where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I accept your announcement that an impact study will only take place if that particular location has been chosen. I'd rather go the other way. Whatever the case, it is a beautiful nature reserve. The insertion of a barracks there would be very unfortunate. That would disrupt the biodiversity that exists. There is indeed also an important recreational function and there is a lot of resistance. If there is a great deal of resistance locally, if there is no support, if there is also a risk to valuable nature reserve, I fear that location is not an option. In this sense, we are not in favour of it and are opposed to the installation of the barracks in Aalter. You should ask the provincial development company again to do the homework, if necessary. You also want to do an alternative examination when the procedure has started, but I would like to start again from the outset. Portrait is the alpha and omega to get certain projects realized. In addition, it goes without saying that valuable nature reserve is protected as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you. I have the impression that there are few options, which probably has to do with the lack of open space in Flanders: there are not many possibilities to plant a barracks. I fully understand that. In any case, the site I was talking about is difficult to reach. A great deal should then be done to unlock it. That analysis was done quickly. Besides, it's not because a possible barracks is not entirely in the Drongengoedbos, that there will be no impact on the forest area. If there are heavy vehicles, if there are shooting exercises, there will be an impact. That is why we cannot support the slope Aalter and it is nice that there is already support from the PVDA. I'm also afraid that if you choose that option, you'll be waiting for a procedural battle. I don't know if you've heard about the Essersbos. There we have seen that one can no longer do what one wants with a forest area, even if it is coloured differently. It is perhaps a good thing that we protect our precious nature, and I wanted to give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u16	Madam Minister, I shall return to the nuclear dossier and to the importance of nuclear disarmament. Indeed, the NATO strategic note rightly refers regularly to the nuclear threat posed by Russia as a nuclear power. It also points to the danger of modernising the nuclear arsenal, which will in turn become operational, whatever Russia intends to do. However, American nuclear weapons will also be modernised, including those on our territory, in Kleine-Brogel. At the same time, the same note refers to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a first contradiction. That treaty, now half a century old, had several objectives, including countering further proliferation, but also giving nuclear weapons states the responsibility to move towards disarmament and start negotiations to actually do so. However, there is currently no reduction in the global nuclear arsenal. A new legal framework has emerged from the United Nations. In the meantime, a lot of legal reading has confirmed that this framework is compatible with the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). I am, of course, talking about the UN Non-Proliferation Treaty (TPNW) on nuclear weapons. Of course, the Belgian government decided to send an observer to the first Meeting of State Parties. That is of course a case of windowdressing to get the deal of 2 % for some parties. Of course, there was also a great deal of discontent within NATO about our presence at that meeting. Here we see again the gap or the contradiction. On the one hand, we are sticking to NATO's nuclear alliance, on the other hand, we are saying that we want to play a significant role in further nuclear disarmament. Madam Secretary, how do you intend to resolve this contradiction? What is the Belgian Government's position when it comes to nuclear disarmament? What steps will the Belgian Government take to ensure that this disarmament will be effectively implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u17	The pursuit of a world without nuclear weapons is a long-term vision that can only be realised if all nuclear powers commit themselves to it through concrete, irreversible and verifiable steps in that direction. NATO's Strategic Concept, in particular the deterrent aspect, has not fundamentally changed and remains based on conventional and nuclear capabilities. At present, NATO can only remain an effective alliance if it has a nuclear deterrent capability and Belgium continues to support this vision. Belgium's accession to the prohibition treaty is impossible, as the current texts of the Convention are incompatible with NATO's strategic vision. Belgium therefore took part only as an observer in the Vienna conference, as did the Netherlands and Germany. We are convinced that it is useful to hear the views and concerns about nuclear disarmament from all members of the international community. For Belgium, the Non-Proliferation Treaty remains the cornerstone of non-proliferation and disarmament architecture. Belgium will continue to oppose any attempt to weaken this treaty. Russian aggression against Ukraine has clearly shown that a strong deterrent policy is and remains necessary. The success of the NPT Review Conference that will take place in the second half of August in New York is therefore of the utmost importance. Belgium will play an active role in this conference and pay particular attention to the issue of the link between the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Prohibition Treaty. Although Belgium is striving for a world without nuclear weapons, it is important to underline that this objective can only be achieved through a realistic and gradual approach. As already mentioned, steps towards disarmament must be irreversible and verifiable and cannot be taken unilaterally by one nation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u18	Madam Secretary, I've been writing down in your reply. It's always the same arguments that come back. Of course, I always ask the same questions, so it would be strange if I expected other answers. In any case, I must contradict you on a number of matters. My time is too short to go into it, but you say, for example, that all nuclear states must be involved. That is true, because we must not disarm unilaterally but multilaterally. That is also what happened after the Cold War with all the disarmament architecture and arms control. Belgium has its part to play in this. After all, we are not nuclear weapons, but we must encourage our self-declared allies to take steps. For example, we must encourage the United States to re-enter the INF Convention. At a time when nuclear weapons are no longer seen as deterrents but doctrines are provided for in order to be able to deploy tactical nuclear weapons more, we must advocate bringing the most important nuclear weapons states around the table. You say that we cannot abandon this deterrent, but we are now out of date. This is the time to grasp the most important nuclear weapons states and to advocate that we sit around the table. We can therefore have the greatest influence on the United States. Because we are not nuclear weapons either, we can join the nuclear ban treaty. This is not incompatible with NATO membership. If we send the nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel back to the sender, that is also not incompatible with our membership. In this way we would really act consistently and honour the passage in the coalition agreement. However, you are now saying that nuclear disarmament is a long-term objective of this government and that you will examine how the new prohibition treaty could give a new impetus to nuclear disarmament. However, we are constantly seeing the opposite. You said that NATO's Strategic Concept is contradictory, but you are thus betraying what you are giving priority to, namely to continue using nuclear weapons. That is very naive, because that will not lead to more security, stability and security, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u19	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u20	Mr President, as stated in the new strategic concept, NATO, like the EU, shares the objective of the UN Climate Panel to reduce CO2 emissions to zero by 2050 in order to limit global warming to 1.5°C. For example, Member States will invest more in the transition to clean energy sources, use green technologies and use synthetic fuels and improve energy efficiency. In addition, the alliance will develop a method of measuring NATO's civilian and military greenhouse gas emissions. Military investments take climate change into account. For example, infrastructure efforts comply with the legal provisions on the energy performance of buildings and energy efficiency, as imposed by public authorities. As you know, the STAR Plan aims to modernise and adapt our obsolete buildings to the new standards, especially in the area of sustainability, with the ambition to achieve a carbon-neutral and sustainable real estate portfolio of Defence by 2040. Another example is the greening of the passenger transport fleet by 2030. Defence contributes to the actions referred to in the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan and the Federal Energy and Climate Plan. These binding actions are in line with NATO objectives. The challenge for Defence is to link the aforementioned greening to operational efficiency and impact. This adds an extra dimension to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u21	Madam Secretary, zero emissions are formulated in 2050 by a military alliance that constantly encourages Member States to invest more and more in military equipment. Let us call a cat a cat: the climate and the war or defence industries live at odds. Two weeks ago, during the discussion of the actualization of the programme law, I also mentioned it. The military industry is one of the most polluting. According to some estimates, one hour flight time of an F-35 would be equivalent to CO2 emissions of five cars for one year. Of that type of plane, we bought 34. The annual emissions of CO2 from the European arms industry are equivalent to 14 million cars. Our greatest ally, American defence, is polluting as much as 140 other countries put together. One more thing: the arms industry emits more than the air and shipping sectors put together. You say you will make the property more sustainable and carbon-neutral by 2040 and you will green the passenger transport fleet. Of course, this is all very noble, but a large part of the climate effort will be destroyed, if one goes further in that 'operational efficiency' or with the purchase of new military equipment. This undermines the sustainability objectives for a large part. If you were aware of a reverse spiral, namely disarmament through multilateral efforts to reach disarmament agreements, you would be doing a much greater service to the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u22	Mr President, Minister, NATO's strategic note brings back the aspect of cyber security on a regular basis. This is a broad term, but it is also about privacy. However, it is less than 10 years since it was discovered that, for example, the American intelligence services were listening to and spying on the people around the world. This is one of the biggest known cases of mass surveillance. The United States is currently by far the largest party in NATO and the most dominant. That's not gonna change anytime soon. Their defence budget is also greater than that of all the other NATO Member States combined. The NATO note also rightly mentions the threat in this area from the self-proclaimed rivals and opponents, namely Russia and, above all, China. There's a certain threat. We need to invest in cyber security. However, there is silence in all languages about the NATO Member States and other allies who have already committed themselves to this. Are there any guarantees that we will not be bugged again by our own allies? What guarantees do you have that this will not happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u23	NATO is a defensive military alliance aimed at averting any armed attack against one of its members in Europe, North America or the North Atlantic. Members have democratic values and cooperation is based on mutual respect and trust. Everyone remembers the communication that the American NationalSecurity Agency intercepted for years through its PRISM surveillance programme. Thus, there can never be a watertight guarantee, but NATO facilitated cooperation and information exchange is and will always be the norm.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u24	Madam Minister, it is indeed a short answer. You rightly claim that NATO is an organisation that also defends our values. Of course, that also presupposes respect for each other and for each other's privacy. But we have seen that the United States, via the NSA and via Danish software and submarine Internet cables, were listening to all of Europe, including their allies. We were shocked by that. We all know the example of Edward Snowden and PRISM. Another example is Pegasus, the spyware of one of our allies, Israel. They sell this software to whoever wants it. In this way, we also give other countries and states with which we have little affinity the opportunity to listen. All this to say that we should not narrowly define cybersecurity as something that comes from the self-proclaimed opponents. It can also happen closer to us, even within the NATO alliance itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u25	Madam Secretary, for budgetary reasons, in the last 30 years, Defence has hardly invested in cloaking material. The current material is insufficient, and its stock is completely exhausted. In order to solve this problem, a public procurement contract has been prepared since 2019 to award a framework contract to rebuild capacity and to purchase additional networks annually to maintain the heritage. Due to the current conflict in Ukraine, the presence of cloaking systems became suddenly precarious, especially due to the frequent use of drones for the observation and detection of targets. Therefore, in March, a list was drawn up identifying the most urgent needs under the Operational Readiness Plan. Camouflagets were also identified as a priority. I come to my questions. Firstly, our troops are now returning from Romania, but will soon be deployed in Lithuania, on the new NATO and Russia contact line, in a very sensitive sector of the alliance's eastern border. How far is the file on the purchase of camouflagenetten? Secondly, is it true that the project, although it had gone through the entire purchasing process, was still put in the refrigerator until 2024, because it would not fit in with the purchase of personal protective equipment and ammunition, while a supplier had already been found that could meet the needs of the defence in the very short term? Thirdly, what was your motivation for this decision? Do you not consider that additional protection by multispectral camouflage systems is necessary in the next two years for collective defence operations? Fourthly and finally, the repellents against UAS still have to be purchased under the STAR plan. With what active and passive protection do our troops now move to Lithuania?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I am referring mainly to the introduction of the previous speaker. I have submitted some similar questions about the stocks and any new purchases, with the associated procedures, of camouflagettes and the latest technological applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u27	Due to the frequent presence of drones and other sensors on the operating theatres, the need to have modern and custom camouflage agents has increased. In view of the complexity and technical challenges involved in ensuring that protection is as closely aligned as possible with the potential threat and environmental requirements of the deployment, the Defence Staff has been conducting a thorough investigation into the most adapted solution since 2019, in collaboration with a research team of the Royal Military School. A purchase file will be realized over the coming months, with an initial purchase linked to a long-term open agreement to maintain the patrimony of cloaking devices and to allow it to evolve in function of the deployment and possible evolution of the threat. In the context of the conflict with Ukraine, it has been examined whether the purchase can be accelerated. As Defence currently does not have an existing contract for such funds and the full procurement process has yet to be completed, the realisation under the food plan is not possible. The members of the Special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales were also briefed on 12 July on the preparation of the Food Plan for Defence. In addition, the defence industry wants to ensure that equipment meets the highest technical requirements and that competition in this area is fully effective. Defense recently signed a contract for the purchase of a number of counter-UAS funds. They will be further extended in the future. The troops deployed in the coming months will be equipped with the cloaking and protective equipment currently at their disposal. These funds will be substantially supplemented and expanded in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand an order has been placed now. I don't understand why this was put on hold. Or wasn't it put on hold? That is still not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u29	Madam Secretary, I remember that the purchases will take place. The competition will play. That's pretty weedy. You were very clear about the fact that troops will always be protected in operation, using the means necessary to do so. That is the most important thing, because that is everyone's concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u30	Madam Minister, in the context of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, at the end of May, the Dutch Minister of Defence offered mine hunters for the mine-fighting operation in the Black Sea, including in order to ensure safe shipping routes for grain transport. Has Belgium also offered its mine sweep capabilities independently or within BeNeSam in the process led by Turkey? If so, what are we offering and for what period? What was the preliminary reply? If not, why not seize this opportunity to participate in this operation together with our Dutch partner? Is this a political decision of the government or is it based on a security analysis of the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u31	Discussions are still ongoing, but in the framework of close cooperation with the Dutch Navy, Defence has made an initial analysis of the feasibility of participating with a mine-fighting vessel in an operation in the Black Sea. A Belgian mine hunter could participate in such an operation this year, at the expense of an already planned NATO deployment. However, the conditions in and around Odessa, with units of the Russian Federation at sea on the one hand and a minefield with anchored sea mines on the other, ensure that a purely military solution is not obvious. There will be a need for agreement from both sides, and Turkey must also agree to this under the Montreux Convention. It is believed that if our ships can enter the Black Sea, Russia will use it. Finally, it is also obvious that a possible control of cargo by means of boarding teams under the UN flag should take place, with the EU also playing a role in ensuring merchant ships. The involvement of the Red Cross is also desirable in order to demonstrate its humanitarian character.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is quite important what you say here, namely that participation is being examined and examined in a thorough manner, including with other parties. This is a good thing to stress, on the one hand, but of minor importance, cooperation with the Netherlands, but on the other hand, and above all to ensure that we make an active contribution, including in the region. It is important that you continue on that path and that you do not stop the journey. We will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u33	Minister, this evening, it has been just a year since our country had to deal with the most important natural disaster ever experienced. Having been able to obtain to date no specific federal follow-up committee, I would like to ask you in order to take stock with you of the accompaniment carried out by the federal government, but also of the lessons learned in the aftermath of the disaster and the adjustments planned, particularly with regard to the recommendations made by the Walloon Parliament's committee of inquiry, received last spring. In our previous discussions on the follow-up to the floods, we both shared the same will about the need to learn all the lessons from crisis management in the context of last summer's floods, but also about the role and ability of Defence in such circumstances. So, Madam Minister, one year after the events, what is your assessment of the involvement of Defence in crisis management during and after the floods? What are the lessons learned in terms of crisis management and particularly in the organizational and logistical support that Defence can provide in managing a natural disaster? What are the means already in place with your administration to ensure the effect of the recommendations of the Walloon Commission of Inquiry? What measures do you have or intend to put in place to enable the effective deployment of Defence skills and capabilities in the context of crisis management for an event such as the one we experienced last summer, which will undoubtedly happen again? We have, in fact, been subjected to further flooding in Wallonia in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u34	Ms. Song, Defence's role in assisting the nation is in the context of national crisis management while taking into account the capabilities of other national aid and response services. This resulted, in 2021, in the commitment of human and material resources to help populations affected by the floods, as well as within the framework of the national plan for the fight against coronavirus or, as at present, in support of Fedasil to ensure greater capacity for reception. During the July 21 crisis, defence assets were committed on the basis of specific requests from the provincial and federal levels through the planned request for support procedure. The provincial military command occupies a central place here because it concentrates and coordinates requests for assistance from the local authorities to the defence. It thus has direct access to certain military means, but can also contact the Defence Staff for the implementation of additional critical military means. Where a problem exceeds the provincial level, requests for the use of military means shall be forwarded to the national crisis centre and to the national logistics hub and, in the specific case of such floods, to the federal support cell. A feedback assessment process on Defence's response to the floods was conducted following this crisis. One of the first elements identified was the difficulty of having a comprehensive view of the current crisis quickly in order to be able to provide the best responses according to the means available. With regard to the organizational and logistical support that Defence has been able to provide in the context of managing this crisis, it appears that the limits of information management have almost been reached. The responses provided by Defence to the questions of the Regional Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry show the abundance of requests that have been addressed to Defence, including to the provincial military commander and directly to the General Staff, through multiple channels. For the staff alone, some 3,000 e-mails of support requests were processed in the early days of the crisis, resulting in approximately 300 formal requests for support under the current procedure. Improvements are therefore needed in the chain of transmission of information between stakeholders, as well as in the timing of the processing of these requests. Defence itself is not a first responder in the event of a disaster in the national territory, except for specific capabilities such as demining or rescue at sea. As you know, I am committed to the societal role of Defence and have, since taking office, insisted on this dimension, notably through the commitment of our staff to the covid crisis. For this reason, this commitment has been anchored in the STAR Plan as a principle. As a result, Defence stands ready to deploy its capabilities to assist the nation and thus society. As such, it has several so-called dual capabilities, i.e. the means that can be used both in its primary operations and missions and in the context of strengthening security in the national territory. This includes, for example, aerial reconnaissance drones, means of medical evacuation or means of chemical, bacteriological, radiological or nuclear detection. In fact, several dual capacity files are in the approval phase or have already resulted in the image of the new heavy troubleshooters delivered to the logistics units of the earth component. The role of Defence in managing national crises is therefore that of a strategic reserve in support of the competent authorities. Being aware of the challenges we face, various measures have been taken, such as the activation of a territorial protection company, Proterre, which can deploy some 150 men, including a command post. The tasks assigned to this company are mainly support for the evacuation of the population, the establishment of a security perimeter or general activities such as the distribution of food. In order to coordinate these actions effectively with the competent authorities, the company also has liaison officers which it can detach at various levels such as the integrated police or the crisis centre. Since the territorial protection company currently has mostly non-specialized capabilities, I have requested that a logistics hub be established on a permanent basis in order to activate specialized logistics and engineering capabilities. To do this, I received funding as a result of the last budget conclave as part of the federal restart and transition plan. In order to improve the deployment of defence capabilities and capabilities in the context of national assistance, a revision of the directive on national operations is under way. In addition, the Staff conducts an inventory of potential dual military capabilities that could be engaged in this framework, in close consultation with relevant actors and authorities. I would also like to point out that the floods, but also the health crisis, have made it clear that strengthening provincial commands is essential. In this context, the STAR plan provides for greater autonomy for provincial commands in case of crisis management. In addition, measures will also need to be taken to ensure communication between stakeholders, when communications networks are rendered, in whole or in part, inaccessible in the affected areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u35	Indeed, Mr. Chair, I think the minister had a lot to say. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which is also very interesting because I have also learned new things from this inquiry. Of course, I had no doubt about your ability to react in the past year as a result of this disaster. I see that you really took things with you, and I thank you for that. You have mentioned various elements which are obviously very interesting and important. I believe that they should be better communicated to citizens who, today, still have this tendency to say that the federal government has done nothing. I know it's not true, but the problem is that sometimes it's hard to communicate the things that are put in place. Thank you for the various elements that you have put in the STAR plan, for the commitment you have put in place, but also for the funding you have secured for this permanent logistics hub. It's very important. You also talked about strengthening provincial commands. This was part of the recommendations of the commission of inquiry. I believe, like you, that this is an important pivotal element in crisis management. These are elements that we sometimes tend to criticize and that some would like to see disappear. But, in fact, when we face a crisis, we realize that, no, these provincial elements are very important. Madam Minister, thank you for all these things that you have already put in place. There is no doubt that other disasters will require us to implement other things. We know that, unfortunately, crisis management does not allow us to anticipate other crises. We're always trying to adapt to the one that just happened. Nevertheless, I believe that everything that is being put in place today will probably help us to prevent tomorrow. As the saying says, prevention is better than cure. So I thank you for everything you've done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u36	Madam Minister, the issue of pension reform is far from being completed. It's the least we can say. It even threatens to become a real agony towards 21 July, who knows. Last week, your coalition partners CD&V and Open Vld reported that they were looking at a number of professions that are exceptionally early to retire. The file on the military retirement age thus returned to the table after a number of years of silence. The Minister of Finance spoke of a very gradual reform with reasonable transition periods. You also consulted the trade unions yesterday after my question. Do you intend to maintain your statement of some time ago "on ne touche pas aux guesthouses" at the time? So do you intend to maintain the retirement age of the military? Or are you gonna let it get to you? What did you meet with the trade unions yesterday? Have you been able to offer their guarantees? What did you suggest to them? Of course, the discussion requires some reflection. How do you reconcile this with your POP and STAR plan and the recapitalisation of military pensions? Does that not, in your view, threaten to become a pocket pocket operation if the statutory retirement age is raised? Do you also have an estimate of the budget released, if soldiers retire later? Your colleague Lalieux has certainly informed you of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u37	Madam Minister, what are the concrete plans on pensions in response to the proposals you received in the government? What's your reaction? Are these proposals backed up by figures? What is the calculated impact of the proposed reform? What specific guarantees could you give yesterday to the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u38	Since the beginning of my term of office, I have very clearly repeated several times that it would never be my intention to touch the retirement age of the military, contrary to what the Michel government intended to do without any social consultation. If other parties put on the table an opposite proposal, I will strongly defend my position. At the moment, I wasn't involved in such a discussion. As part of the social dialogue, I have already informed the representative military trade unions, who, moreover, fully share my view. When drawing up my POP plan, it was never intended that measures in that plan would be offset by other measures of any kind. The specificity of a military career has already been sufficiently demonstrated during the pension reform project launched in 2016 and never translated into practice. This specificity was recently highlighted in connection with the operations in Afghanistan and the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. It is true that military personnel are always ready to intervene at home and abroad to ensure our safety and, if necessary, to make the highest sacrifice. Finally, I would like to stress that the women and men of Defence have always been at the heart of my priorities and will always be at the heart of my priorities. Strengthening defence means making Defence more attractive and thus ensuring that Defence has the personnel with the right competences. To paraphrase what I have already said, it has never been my intention, nor will it ever be, to improve the status of defence personnel by one hand, and then to deteriorate that status by the other hand. That's not my way of doing politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u39	Madam Minister, you say that you will not deviate from the position you have taken in the past, on one touch pas aux pensiones, you will continue to maintain that position. You say you haven't been involved in the negotiations yet. That seems very strange to me when it comes to the retirement age of the military. Anyway, maybe you will. I certainly hope that, given your party's increasingly isolated position in the whole pension reform dossier at the moment, you will not succumb to the pressure that is growing. The statement you are taking here is correct, if you ask us. Military has been a bottleneck profession for years. Attrition is one of the biggest challenges. Skilled officers are retiring, and there's something about to happen on staff. Precisely to the retirement age, the POP plan needs to be improved, a healthy work-life balance and a proper reward. DOD can't be a maid of all work anymore. That may sound disrespectful, but unfortunately that is often the truth. There is also a need to develop an adequate infrastructure in which the military must work. All these files have been hammered for years. I hope you can handle the pressure that is being put up at the moment. I urge you to do so, so that the present and future soldiers do not have to live in an atmosphere of uncertainty and can at last devote themselves to their core tasks in adequate conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u40	Madam Secretary, we'll see how it goes. Your position is certainly clear, that of the government is not. Anyway, July 21st isn't for another week.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u41	Madam Secretary, the question as I put it is now somewhat dated. She was scheduled last week but couldn't be asked more then. Meanwhile, it is quite old news, given the changed situation and the new engagements in the reception of applicants for international protection. I would like to express my gratitude to you and to the defence staff in particular for their commitment and their commitment to our society, knowing that Defence has already made 6,000 places available today, which is 20% of the total reception capacity. You have announced that another 750 places will be added. For the rest, you are very grateful for these efforts. The reason for my question as it was put was a previous statement by your spokesperson in De Tijd, who said that last winter, Defense had already been asked to clear existing infrastructure in barracks for shelter and that window contracts were ready. Such a village can be built quickly, but that winter was not chosen for that. What exactly is in those window contracts? How many containers is the maximum? What is the cost of that? You said that such a village could be built quickly. How fast can that be and where? You have announced that reception will be provided for three stages. A first phase is that of the pilots. How fast can that be? Can you outline the conditions in the compartmentalised area, as you described them in the press release? Is the pilot phase supposed to go out soon? I understand it's not 750 plus 750, but 750. Have any agreements been made on the duration of the second phase, the container villages? After all, we know that the exercise in the Directorate of Buildings, the third phase you announced, will not be evident. Perhaps that exercise has already been made and I think that its outcome is uncertain. In any case, I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u42	Madam Secretary, I cannot get rid of the impression that the Defense Department has become the child of the account. First, your cabinet informed us that the Defense Department has only 400 seats. As the honourable Member has said, in the past, the Ministry of Defence has already provided 6,000 shelters. Those words weren't cold yet when your department immediately had to provide 1,500 places. I can't imagine this being received by the Defense personnel on applause. The reception of asylum seekers is not, after all, the primary task of your department. I'm still being careful about expressing myself. Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mrs. de Moor, will transfer the hot potato to your department. Your department will initially become a kind of hotel and in second instance a kind of Bob de Builder on behalf of Mrs. de Moor. In my view, the reception of asylum seekers is not the job of the Defence Department, which has other cats to fling. Perhaps you would have made that clear to Mrs de Moor. I refer, for my questions, to the question submitted, although some of them have already been overtaken by current events. I also apologise for not being able to wait for your answer. I will certainly look at the recordings of this committee meeting. The work of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities requires me to leave the committee room. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u43	Madam Minister, under the leadership of the PS, this government promised to fill in the asylum policy in a more humane way and to stop the chaos in the area of asylum and reception. This government promised to pursue an anti-Francken policy, to stop the asylum chaos and to put an end to the harming of international conventions and human rights obligations. That was the great promise of this government: la politique anti-Franckensur la migration et l'asile. We are now two years away, Madam Secretary, and it is total chaos. You may have read today the article of the French-speaking lawyers' desks in La Libre Belgique, in which you are said to be ashamed of the daily violations of international humanitarian law and human rights by your government. I find it remarkable that your government, which is going to take a different approach, is failing in all respects when it comes to asylum. It's a big mess. Finally, we have also received the real figures of the number of convictions and petitions in the Brussels Labour Court. In the first six months more than 2,000 petitions were filed and there were more than 1,000 convictions for not giving shelter and violating international humanitarian law. Last year it was the same. Since the start of the government, there have been 3,000 to 4,000 petitions. That is particularly painful, Madam Secretary. You have stated that the Defense Department will take on additional personnel. You do that in a barracks in Berlaar. Once again, the Department of Defense needs to put it up, while the real problem is that you're not working on detachment. There is no dissuade, because that is supposedly not humane. I wonder what is humane about the situation in the Klein Kastiltje in the past few days, where the police with the matrak are knocking people out on the street. That's happening right now. In the late evening, the police just knock people off the streets of Brussels. Is that human? I don't think so. This left-wing government is not now coming up with a structural solution and will not do so in the future. A further 750 additional places are being created. I have a few questions about this. What's the cost of this for the Defense Department? Will the Defence Department contribute to this, or is the cost fully borne by Fedasil? What is the state in which the warehouses are located? What has been stored in it so far and what is happening to those goods? You remember the masking during the corona pandemic. Those mouth masks were stored in Belgrade's barracks, in Namur, but they decided to destroy those mouth masks, because there was asylum in that barracks. So what is currently in Berlaar's barracks and will something be destroyed there? What is the impact on the functioning of Defense on this active site? What security measures should be taken and what restrictions will be imposed on defence? Finally, according to the current plans, the distribution centre spare parts would still be in use until 2024. The municipality of Berlaar wants to take over that barracks and convert them, but that is a large barracks of 45 hectares with a lot of military activity. Will you effectively reject that barracks, Madam Secretary? Do you hold on to those plans or do you need the barracks again as part of the reconstruction of our defense? What are the longer term plans with the barracks in Berlaar?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u44	Mr President, I would like to point out that I am not Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. So I don't have control over this department or its management. So I will answer as far as my department is concerned. Defence is again being called upon today to overcome a crisis, even though Defence faces major internal challenges and is in full reconstruction and transformation. Nevertheless, the department is ready to develop a working method and a framework to overcome the reception crisis and to guarantee a hosting infrastructure. Defence already provides almost 6,000 reception places, representing 20% of the total reception capacity in our country. Many empty sites of Defense were indeed alienated or already granted in concession to Asylum and Migration, the provinces or the Red Cross. On the active sites of Defense there is sensitive and attractive equipment. For security reasons, it is therefore advisable not to accommodate migrants in 15 minutes with an operational unit or mission. The reception of asylum seekers in empty buildings should therefore be examined on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with Fedasil, the security services and the local authorities. Defence has a multi-annual open agreement for renting temporary infrastructure in the form of mobile container units. Through this open agreement, Defense can order container complexes. Both installation, assembly and rental for a certain time are included. In the context of the current crisis, Fedasil could use this Defence contract as a beneficiary for a total budget of €2,275 million. Apart from the budget, there are no restrictions on the size of the complexes to be ordered. The total price for a container complex with a capacity of 400 people for one year is about 1 million euros. This amount does not include connection costs. The installation of a container complex must take account, inter alia, of the connection to utilities. From the place visit, the presentation of the tender and the placing of the order for the production of the containers, the installation by the firm and the total delivery, four to six months must be counted. Fedasil needs extra capacity from over 1,000 to 1,500 places in a very short time. In order to find a solution to the shortage of capacity, the core of July 6 approved a three-stage approach for the reception of 750 people, under the direction of Defence. This method was confirmed by the government on 8 July. First of all, I would like to remind you that it is very important for me to be able to offer people a decent reception. It is also crucial that the intervention of Defense is as short as possible, so as not to hypothesize the department's own operation and reconstruction. Defence has an important role in our society and society and is activated in times of crisis when existing resources prove insufficient. I would also like to express my thanks to the defence personnel who have been involved in many crises over the last few years and who are once again ready to do so, for their commitment to our society. I will return to the three phases. In a first phase, Defence will provide a total of 750 temporary emergency shelters in sheds, with sanitary facilities, and initially guaranteeing meals. By the government was elected for the quarter of an hour in Berlaar. In close consultation with Asylum and Migration, Fedasil, the Civil Protection, the Red Cross and the local authorities, the site will be ready for use in accordance with the applicable rules and the deadline for the reception of the first asylum seekers. Defense can quickly prepare the site for a limited reception. The pilots in question were empty and in very good condition. There's no functional impact on the quarter. The part where the shelter will take place will be closed off from the still active part of the quarter. The operationalisation of the site will be Fedasil's responsibility in cooperation with reception partners and with specialised staff, as Defence personnel are not trained for that type of work. In a second phase, a temporary container village for 750 reception places will be built so that persons from temporary emergency shelters can stay in better conditions. The emergency shelter in the pilots will also cease to exist at that time. It is very important that the container village can be built as quickly as possible, in order to keep the temporary emergency shelter in the warehouse of Defense as short as possible. The operator's cooperation is again necessary in order to determine the required configuration. The cost of a container village for 750 people is estimated at two million euros for a year. The estimated amount includes the installation and the rental price, but not the preparatory works and connections to utility lines. For the third and final phase, the Buildings Management is instructed to find buildings that, if necessary, can be adapted to family homes to accommodate families in appropriate conditions. Any changes to the infrastructure will be coordinated by the Directorate-General for Buildings. That third phase will mean the end of making the container village available. All costs incurred for the reception of asylum seekers within military sites shall be borne by the Fedasil budget. The costs related to emergency care can be pre-financed by Defence, after which that amount will be cleared from the interdepartmental commission New Policy based on real costs, each time with the agreement of the Secretary of State for the Budget. The costs for Defence consist mainly of those for specialized military personnel deployed in the preparation of the site and the start-up costs for making the site ready for use. Afterwards, the site will be transferred to Asylum and Migration in the form of a concession. During the period 2015-2016, Defence performed 3,168 man-days, mainly in the preparatory work. This corresponds to an amount of EUR 842,694 on the Defence budget. In October 2021, 53 man-days were performed before the opening of the site at Glons. As far as the future of Berlaar's quarter-minute is concerned, a rejection of the quarter-hour period is not currently planned. In the future, it will serve as a transfer and transfer during the transition phase to the new capacities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u45	Madam Minister, once again I would like to express my gratitude and appreciation for the enormous efforts of your defence personnel in far from obvious circumstances. Of course, everything must be done to ensure that the pilot and container phases are as short as possible and that defence is relieved so that we can concentrate on the core tasks. There are two important things to do, and Vooruit wants to watch over them, but you too will have to watch over them. You have announced a third phase, with the Government of the Buildings, and it must be completed as soon as possible. In all honesty, I don't know if I can trust that third phase. If it were that simple to screen all the sites and buildings again, it would probably have happened already. Moreover, the Ukraine crisis is now making this difficult. It is even more important to further shorten the deadline for the handling of applications for international protection. In this way, as many decisions as possible can be taken by the DVZ and the Commissioner-General. The shorter the reception period, the less reception is needed. The current reception with 31,000 places should be more than sufficient even now, with relatively high inflow rates. Fortunately, there is a positive evolution in this treatment period, thanks to the recruitment of staff, but further reversal is needed. This will be an important task for the Secretary of State, Nicole De Moor. We will come back to that next week when we discuss its policy statement. In the meantime, I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u46	Madam Secretary, I do have some experience with the file. I know you are not responsible for asylum and migration policy, but you are a minister in a government. Your party is the largest party in that government. You have chosen to pursue a welcoming policy, not to focus on distress, to stop all the things that I have initiated, because you enjoyed it so much and because you thought it was very good to pursue an anti-Francken policy, just like Mr Segers, by the way. Well, the results after two years are just disastrous. We are the second asylum country throughout Europe, after Austria. We are also in second place in the field of unaccompanied minors. There is no European asylum crisis as in 2015 and 2016. There is a very large and acute Belgian asylum crisis, only in our country, in the Netherlands and in Austria, but not in Europe as at the time. Then everyone in Europe was in big trouble. You have done this to yourselves by opting for a soi-disant human policy that actually only pushes people into misery. They end up on the street, here in Brussels. They're not getting shelter. There are thousands of convictions for millions of euros of periodic penalty payments due. That is the result of the choices you have made. As Secretary of Defense, you are now saying that we will do our best again. What you, Madam Secretary, should do is say to Mrs de Moor: "It has been enough. When will you finally change things in the area of asylum and migration? When will you finally start to dissuade people and tell them that it is no longer possible and that it is full here?" In addition, we also have 50,000 Ukrainians, which we apparently no longer talk about. They all need to be taken care of by local authorities. You need to draw a much clearer line and not just go along with it in even more shelter, a few million euros, even more money, even more staff. There's no end to this. We are heading towards a budget of almost EUR 800 million, just for Fedasil. Those are hallucinating figures, for someone who knows that policy somewhat. I expect you to say: "A dumb-ass! We'll do another 750." Where's the container village anyway? Is that going to be in Berlaar? You didn't say that. In addition, you have the idea that the Government of the Buildings will solve a number of problems. The Government of the Buildings has no buildings. By the way, the Government of the Buildings will not cooperate at all. So it's just dramatic. What you, as Secretary of Defense, should have said is, "Çasuffit, that's enough. We're out. We're doing more than enough already. We have our own challenges, such as the war in Ukraine."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cornet's 55029574C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u48	Madam Secretary, it's summer and we all feel it outside. You are also very much in favour of the military helping society. Can youth associations use military material, for example? Is there an active information campaign on this? Are activities organised in the summer months to make Defence attractive to young people, for example? Recruitment is hugely important. You know my position on that. I'm not the biggest fan of helping the nation by the Defense Department.Of course, the Defense Department has to take responsibility there, but that's not the absolute priority. The positive demonstration of defence, for example in the youth field, can help in the struggle we are fighting together, namely for better recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u49	All information on the use of areas of Defense by youth movements can be found on the Defence website. Applications may be submitted directly on the basis of a form. Bivouacs shall be made available free of charge to youth movements, depending on their availability. Costs are charged for the use of water, electricity and plumbing. A table that summarises which bivouac spaces are available for youth movements is also consultable on the Defence website. In addition, other infrastructure, such as sports grounds, may also be made available under certain conditions. Questions submitted to the responsible services shall always be answered as closely as possible to allow the applicant to initiate the application through the established procedure. The protocol loaned tents to youth movements during the summer holidays was discontinued on 1 September 2020, as the patrimony to tents of older generation was too limited. Applications for the use of equipment, other than tents, are examined individually and are the subject of a file performance for third parties. In the coming summer there will be several initiatives to introduce young people to the Defense Department. As every year, Defence organizes several youth placements for young people aged between 16 and 20 in different locations during school holidays. This year 22 youth placements are organized with a total of 766 places. The programme of internships is very diverse, but sport and teamwork are always central. During each internship, a recruiter from an information centre will also provide information on the job opportunities at Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u50	The latter is particularly important. It is a very positive development that recruitment is being carried out during the 22 youth placements with a total of 766 places, each with the deed being added to the word.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u51	Madam Minister, earlier it was decided to move Koksijde's search-and-rescue capacity to Ostend, but that decision was postponed. What's the status of that file? I would also like to hear whether there is a budgetary agreement on the construction of a new hangar at Ostend-Bruges Airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u52	Mr Pillen, a public contract for the construction of the necessary infrastructure for the new heliport at Ostend airport is currently being prepared and is scheduled for the second half of this year. Following the completion of the works in 2025, the transfer of the base from Koksijde to Ostend can continue. The budget for that project is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that there is clarity about this, because there is a lot of confusion at local level. I may submit a follow-up question, because if additional search-and-rescue helicopters are purchased, a new type or the same type may be determined by the staff based on what comes in, then the number of four to eight devices will be placed in that heliport. I assume that this will also affect the public contract that will be launched later this year. I will certainly follow that with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u54	Minister, this is an update on our military support for Ukraine. Yesterday I asked questions about the diplomatic side and the reconstruction side. We learned that diplomats, as well as a military team, had returned to our embassy in Kiev. You indicated that you participated in a second meeting of the contact group Ukraine, at which you learned about the requests of the Ukrainian authorities for arms deliveries. You have indicated that you are considering these requests. To date, what is the status of the review of these new applications? You also indicated that new arms deliveries had taken place recently. What is it? For what amounts? What types of weapons are they? I know you don't communicate much about this, but tell me what can be communicated publicly. What coordination is planned with EU Member States and NATO Member States? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u55	Mr Dallemagne, as I have already explained, the analysis of applications is an ongoing process. A new dossier will be presented this Friday to the Council of Ministers for approval. But as you also know, I do not give details in the public committee. All details can be obtained at a closed meeting of the Special Commission on Military Purchases and Sales. As regards coordination between the two organisations, it is carried out at the level of the Clearing House Sales of the European Union and at the level of the International Donor Coordination Center in Stuttgart, with a liaison officer from the European Union. This coordination is complemented by regular meetings between the two organizations at different levels of authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you. My objective is to continue to show Parliament's interest in this issue. Everyone goes on vacation, but the war continues there. Very clearly, there are very important needs. We know that, for the moment, the pressure on Donbass is very important. I trust that with the government, you will remain vigilant, attentive and proactive in relation to these Ukrainian demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-13-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic859x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Georges Dallemagne's 55029611C is converted into a written question. I hope that we will not see each other sooner than September and that we will not be convened during the summer recess, but that will determine international activities.
