ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, anyone who is foaming the Internet on all kinds of Belgian solidarity forums for Ukraine can only be impressed by the great willingness of the Belgian people. However, it is striking that many host families and Ukrainians do not seem to be aware of the precise functioning of the regular circuit, i.e. with matching from the registration centre on the Heysel, which now works much better than some time ago. There are many host families in these forums who offer their services as well as Ukrainian women who are looking for a place to stay and do not seem to know that they are going to the registration centre on the Heysel as soon as possible. Although the vast majority of those posts are bona fide, they also cause problems. For example, Ukrainian women are often particularly vulnerable and offer to work, without knowing in advance or knowing in advance the intentions of those who intend to do so. This situation is, of course, sub-optimal, because more sustainable care should not depend on a contact at all costs. The expectations in terms of duration, profile and so on are not aligned. In the worst cases, this can and will even lead to exploitation. Very often these situations are settled after registration in the centre on the Heysel, because it is considered that there is no need for shelter as there is already a place for shelter. It is therefore important to be able to intervene in the process as early as possible. Do you agree with me that these persons are best led to the regular circuit as soon as possible, both host families and Ukrainian refugees residing in Belgium? How will you do that or how will you do that? These questions were tabled some time ago. For example, did you ask your administration or a civil society organisation to address these people systematically? That's not that difficult, because the contact details are included. Do you ensure that this type of malicious advertising is also reported to the competent authorities, namely the FGP, the parquet and the centres for victims of trafficking in human beings? In order to avoid the need for a parallel circuit, public facilities must, of course, work at any time of the day. What reception is offered to Ukrainian refugees arriving at the Heysel after the closing hour of the registration centre? What time can they get to where? What about the refugees arriving at Charleroi airport after a flight of, for example, ten hours and then going with FlixBus to Brussels-South? Are refugees arriving in Brussels-North with FlixBussen now accompanied to shelters? The second thing I want to quote is the unaccompanied minors. I have recently asked questions about this to Minister Van Quickenborne who had replied to me that the registration centre at the Heizel provides for a separate desk for minors, which is staffed by the DVZ. That's what we've been able to determine on our visit. I thought the Voogdij Service would be involved in that too. That point of contact is a first interview with the minors and asks about living conditions and residence. It then sends a description sheet to the Voogdij Department, stating the address given by the minor on the description sheet. After a positive residential check by the district agent, the address of the unaccompanied minor will also be mentioned in the National Register. At that time, the minister had 709 Ukrainian unaccompanied minors, some 200 of whom were in an observation centre, which means that they were already subject to government supervision, albeit without a guardian. Only 89 unaccompanied Ukrainian minors were appointed guardians. This means that at that time there were about 420 Ukrainian unaccompanied minors without guardians. I also understand that the number of Ukrainians in foster care is limited. That's why I'm worried about the 420 minors. Maybe there are more in the meantime. I also noted that the contacts between the minor and the accompanying family member, or friend of the family, were not always optimal. An observant OCMW employee could notice a condition, but what about the unaccompanied minors without guardian who do not get to the OCMW or where the OCMW cannot notice certain signals? Some will probably have to wait a long time for a guardian. What happens in the meantime? Is there already a systematic home check with those 618 Ukrainian unaccompanied minors? Is that a priority? Is there a systematic monitoring and feedback rather than an automatic transfer to the cities and municipalities, or does much depend solely on good will? How many of those 418 unaccompanied Ukrainian minors were already subject to a check? Is there any assurance that this control will take place several times? Are you aware of any abuses? How much? What have you done about it? In the Netherlands, the current reception of Ukrainians can be based on the experiences of Takecarebnb, which provides intake conversations and matching. No Ukrainians will be assigned to host families as long as these phases have not been completed. I know that until recently no persons were assigned. Maybe that's changed by now. But I know that a screening has taken place in Belgium, which has not yet been done in the Netherlands. That means that all Ukrainians who were received at that time had not been screened. Some of my colleagues were wrong about this. A consortium of the Red Cross, Refugee Work The Netherlands, the Salvation Army and Takecarebnb will coordinate this. There is a telephone intake, a statement about the behaviour of the host family, the host families are informed. 30,000 host families had registered via refugeehome.nl, 40% of which were refused, for example because there was no separate room available or because the host family could only provide shelter for a very short time. There are also volunteers who are the permanent point of contact. That's a really good system. Mr Secretary of State, will you develop such a system together with civil society and the Länder in Belgium? This system can be used immediately in non-crisis times for non-Ukrainians, in particular for persons who have just been granted international protection and who have to leave reception?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, it's been a while since we've had a questioning session. That is why I think it is appropriate to ask again about the state of affairs of the notifications of Ukrainian refugees. We now see that the situation in Kiev and the western part of the country is already better. Russian troops are no longer targeting Kiev, so that the inhabitants of Kiev can resume their lives. This may also be good news for refugees who may want to return home. On the other hand, the conflict continues in the east of the country and the war continues to rage there. On 29 April 2022 I read in the media that the number of Ukrainian refugees registered daily then fluctuated between 350 and 450 people per day. That was a lot lower than the first few weeks after the beginning of the war. Mr Secretary of State, can you give up-to-date figures on the number of daily applications? Do you expect an increase in the number of applications in the coming weeks? Are there any agreements at European level on the distribution of refugees who are now being received from other European countries in Eastern European countries? If so, will we be able to accommodate these people in Belgium? How long will the DVZ's login center remain operational at the Heysel? Do you have plans to change the location if the number of applications is limited to hundreds of people per day? Do all the people who register find a shelter right now? I am thinking of people who were initially taken care of at home and who now choose to go to another organised shelter. How's the flow going? At the end of April, the number of Ukrainians who applied for protection was 37,000. Do you know if any of these have already returned to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I have another question about the reception of Ukrainians. At the committee meeting on 30 March, I already questioned you about the development of the collective reception facilities for those Ukrainian refugees. In the meantime, the two Flemish emergency villages that were then announced in Antwerp and Mechelen have opened their doors. The remaining 13 will not be there for the time being, because fortunately the need does not appear to be as high as was originally thought or feared. In Flanders there are 20,000 shelters, although only 3,000 refugees need to be helped with housing needs. However, if the situation so requires, there could be rapid switching. When I asked you about the state of play of the plans and achievements concerning the creation of emergency villages in Brussels and Wallonia, you said at the committee meeting in question, among other things, that there should be no reference to each other. You added that the reception of refugees in host families is fine, but cannot be a structural solution. It was therefore necessary to ensure that more places were created in structural, collective housing. On May 5th, you wrote on Twitter: "No sense in community hassle." However, the reality is that Flanders organises collective care to take over private care, as it should be. However, Brussels and Wallonia consider the care provided by private individuals to be structural. This is irresponsible." End of quote. I repeat my previous question, Mr Secretary of State, without referring to anyone. I would like you to give me an update on the plans and achievements for the development of collective reception for Ukrainian refugees in Brussels and Wallonia. Have you already consulted the competent authorities on the irresponsible attitude of Brussels and Wallonia? If so, what was the concrete result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, since many questions have already been asked, I will go to the essentials. What is your view of the overall situation? What are the current figures for daily reception in the municipalities in Belgium? What are the returns of the communes? At first, it was quite complicated, which is quite normal. Apparently, there would be a large difference between the official figures of the Aliens Office/Fedasil and the number of people registered in the communes. This is probably due to the fact that some people register without registering in the communes, but this is sometimes a problem for the municipalities in terms of the reception and implementation of specific policies at local level. In Waterloo, for example, ten days ago, two refugees were registered in the commune, compared to 104 according to the Aliens Office. As I said, this may prevent municipalities from anticipating certain provisions. Can a questionnaire or some provisions be put in place to match these figures? On the other hand, some hosts come back and tell us that they welcome people who sometimes have specific needs, including people with disabilities. Is a questionnaire offered to Ukrainian refugees and then forwarded to future hosting companies so that arrangements can be made? Two and a half months after the crisis began, the screening issue was complicated, since everything was done quickly. Have clear provisions or recommendations been made to the municipalities to avoid abuses in the reception of Ukrainian refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the framework was given by my colleagues. As Mr Segers pointed out earlier, the mobilization of our fellow citizens was extraordinary in order to respond urgently to the need to find places of reception for those who left their country forced and forced as a result of Vladimir Putin's so shameful and murderous act. But today, these same fellow citizens may not be aware of the task and what was ahead of them. Many say to me: "Mr. Rigot, how long are we going to have to take on our mission? Will there be a relay at some point? The financial situation is getting complicated for us. The cost of living has increased dramatically for everyone. And some, with their hearts on their hands, today, despite everything, can no longer do it." And then, sometimes there are also difficult situations. I remember a fellow citizen on Hannut's side saying: "I had a very difficult situation with an unaccompanied minor. I didn't get the support I was hoping for from the guardianship services. I feel lonely and unworked today. What should I do?" In the face of these situations, some citizens could, at some point, say stop – and already do. What quick solutions could be found for families wishing to transfer refugees to places other than their own, whether they were transfers to other asylum-seeking families or to State-organised structures? It seems to me, indeed, that it is time for us to organise the reception of families. Why do foster families not receive financial support or support? Can financial compensation be considered at Belgian level? How long will this emergency reception have to last? The families are waiting for a commitment from you that the State will carry out its mission in this area. Pending support, what measures can you put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, you know that I have reservations about the way in which you have dealt with the Ukraine crisis: holdebolder. You said that the Syrian crisis of 2014-2015 was nothing compared to this one. I checked it out. I believe that at the height of the Syrian crisis more people have arrived than today from Ukraine. There was talk of 200,000 people. We haven't seen it so far. Well, that could always happen, but I don't think that's a good chance. I hear and read that a number of people are already returning to Ukraine and that it is fairly quiet at the Polish-Ukrainian border, and also in Romania. According to you, the federal government itself could not handle it; the shelter was to be done with the Länder and the local authorities, because what our country experienced in 2015 is peanuts compared to what we are going to experience now. So far, you have no proof of that. The figures do not indicate that what we are experiencing today would be much greater than the 2014 Syrian crisis. In that sense, your motivation to do it this way is to overcome the facts a bit. However, we are now in a situation where the Länder and local authorities share responsibility. So do we. Next week I will open a summer house in Lubbeek, as mayor of our college with which we have been working with CD&V for ten years. So we will certainly accept our responsibility, that is not the problem. But I do wonder about the rejected Ukrainian displaced persons. I understand that people who do not appear to be Ukrainian are not really being followed. What's happening to them? How does that work? Could you give us a more detailed explanation? What are the latest figures? What is the latest state of affairs? Are they locked up or sent back? How is that done? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u7	Mr President, I am trying to answer the many questions. Mrs Platteau, on the website of Statbel you will always find a current overview of the number of registrations. Between 14 March 2022 and 9 May 2022, 40,000 temporary protection certificates were already issued. In addition, a number of persons whose files are still being examined or whose applications have been refused have been registered. The daily registration varies around 300 certificates per day. On a Monday, that figure is often a little higher. Just as for the registration of asylum seekers, that figure is slightly higher on a Monday. It sometimes fluctuates around 500 registrations, just to give you an idea. Mr Francken, you asked for a comparison with the past. I do not know to what extent you want to compare things, but at least it concerns more than 40,000 people who are registered within three months. That fact alone, namely the registration of more than 40,000 people at three months' time, is unseen. We can assume that. The question of how long people stay here and whether people stay here and whether we go from 40,000 to 70,000 or 100,000 cannot be answered. Celeval makes a number of projections. Time will tell . However, it is difficult to say that the challenge, at least in terms of registration, has not been particularly spicy and has been quite unseen. Let us hope, however, that the situation does not become very problematic. I only believe that politicians also have a responsibility to always rely on a worst case scenario, on which we must prepare ourselves. No one here in the Chamber will believe that this is not the case. I certainly hope so. Mr Moutquin, all the beneficiaries of temporary protection are welcome in our country, even if this does not always happen through the regular channels through which Fedasil can organise allowances with the local authorities. This does not mean that there is no permanent contact with the different cities and communes in solidarity. Through the governors and federated entities, we are always in contact with the field and we are trying to help find solutions in case of difficulty. After registration with the Aliens Office, not all persons benefiting from temporary protection necessarily go immediately to the municipality for registration in the Aliens Register. In addition, not all municipalities have to cope with the same influx and not all have sufficient staff resources, according to the information I have received. In some municipalities, delays are much greater than in others, even if there are such a large number of Ukrainian applicants. I know that all cities and municipalities are making a lot of efforts. However, the reality is that certain cities, also proportionally, have much more difficulty in dealing with registration. I show all understanding, knowing that cities are suddenly faced with specific problems. In any case, the cities and municipalities are making every effort. Mr Moutquin, it is true that there is currently a difference between the figures for temporary protection certificates issued and the entries in the National Register. Of the approximately 40,000 certificates issued, approximately half of Ukrainians were able to complete the registration process in their communes, the final result being registration in the National Register. There are several reasons for this. For example, unfortunately, not everyone registers with the municipality immediately after receiving his or her certificate. In addition, some local governments follow different procedures to deal administratively with the influx of Ukrainians. Many local authorities try to deal with it in the most flexible way possible, but this is not always easy. As a result, it may take too long to get an appointment and be registered in the National Register, which explains the difference between the numbers. Mr Van Langenhove, the Länder have committed themselves to further pursue and monitor the supply of additional sustainable reception sites. Concrete figures on the development of collective places can always be requested from the competent authorities of the regions concerned. I understand that 9,000 places are available in the Flemish Region in the newly created collective shelters, but, again, that question is best asked to the competent government. However, this deserves a compliment and makes it possible for Ukrainian refugees to move from private to collective shelters. Nevertheless, the various authorities of the country remain in close consultation in several relevant fora. The situation remains unpredictable, so I have continued to argue for a great vigilance and the creation of sufficient places. So we must not slacken our attention and continue to work on sustainable solutions for the many refugees in Ukraine, day after day, across policy levels. It seems to me important to point out that everyone has their own skills. We are empowered by the federal government to handle registration and, if necessary, crisis reception. The Regions are doing their work with regard to housing. I know how difficult it is to organise structural reception at regional level, but we all know how much it is necessary. I am pleased to note that Flanders has created a number of structural housing units, which are indispensable. In this way, each host family can take care of the dispatching. As I said recently, it is not a question of participating in a community game, but each Region has housing skills. Therefore, I can only hope that everyone will put his own. As you rightly said, Mr Rigot: some host families wanted to help temporarily - and that is very commendable. However, these people must continue their lives and continue to live in structural housing thereafter. I am concerned in this regard, as I sometimes feel that the reception by these families is perceived as permanent. But that is not the case. I can understand that this is not clear from the budgetary point of view. Similarly, the construction of crisis villages is not simple. However, the necessary steps must be taken. I am always willing to see what we can do together. I see that some are capable of doing so, and I am sure that everyone can do so. Let's work together, because it's the only way to get away with it. There's no point in looking at what one does and the other does not. My concern is guided by the fate of Ukrainians and host families. It is therefore important to work on this issue. Mr Francken, those who do not have Ukrainian nationality and who we refuse the status of temporary protection, because they do not meet the criteria and therefore can return safely and sustainably to their country of origin, obviously have the opportunity to receive support from the organisation responsible for returning to their country of origin. If they do not return voluntarily and do not initiate any other procedure, in addition to the ICAM procedure, the forced removal procedure can always be initiated. What's my first assessment of the case? The interpretation of the TPD, the Temporary Protection Directive, is different in every country. In the Netherlands, for example, someone who was a student or a migrant worker and who was in Ukraine is also eligible for this. When one departs from Ukraine, one does not always know how a particular country interprets the TPD. It's causing confusion. In the meantime, on the basis of what I hear from contacts on the ground, I conclude that the awareness of the interpretation we give to the directive is growing. That's good. The hand is stretched out to anyone who has escaped Ukraine. They must be able to find all the protection in the country of origin. We'd be happy to cooperate. The registration centre is still at the Heysel in Palace 8. Batibouw temporarily reduced the registration centre and moved Fedasil to a nearby location. At the moment, it is not intended to move to another location. The location is good and the structures there are well organized. I recently welcomed my Canadian colleague, who came to see our organisation, because we are able to register immediately when many neighbouring countries are unable to do so. Even with the generally falling figures compared to the first days of the conflict, we must always be careful. On Monday 2 May 582 people were registered. It should not therefore be said that these are only 300 persons who are registered, because that is still a significant number. If there are 582 people registering on a Monday, that seems to me to be a considerable number. Nor should we underestimate what is happening in Ukraine. Besides, I don't think anyone in this room is doing that. Depending on how the conflict evolves, one should be able to demolish or strengthen the registration centre. That is the advantage of Palace 8, namely that it can be switched modularly quickly. At some point we went to more than 60 counters, with a registration capacity of more than 3,500 places. We were able to reduce that capacity very quickly because it was not necessary. Of course, the staff of Fedasil and the DVZ have many other tasks. We are lagging behind in other dossiers and we therefore need our staff to do so. It is therefore a good thing that they can continue their work on these dossiers. Mrs Platteau, all those who, on the day of registration, state that they cannot go to family or friends and therefore need shelter, are directed by Fedasil towards a shelter in a municipality. A housing tool has been created and there is good cooperation with the regions and local authorities. If, due to circumstances, it is not possible for the persons in need to be assigned to a local administration, they will be taken into custody in the federal emergency shelter. Mr Rigot, the crisis accommodation of host families is, in most cases, not indefinite. Local coordinators are always in contact with host families in their commune to provide the necessary support, both to Ukrainian refugees and to solidarity foster families. At the state level, additional support is also provided in various ways to local authorities, foster families and Ukrainians, among others by Minister Lalieux. With regard to the federated entities, they have also committed themselves to creating sustainable accommodation so that persons with temporary protection status can be referred from a foster family to more sustainable forms of reception. This is also seen in the majority of European countries. Family reception in times of crisis took place throughout Europe. Subsequently, more "definitive" crisis structures are installed. If the conflict persists for months or even years, it is necessary to continue to facilitate the integration of Ukrainians. If the conflict potentially lasts 15 or 20 years – how to speak – it is necessary to ensure that they can be integrated in the best possible way. Mr Moutquin, when it comes to vulnerable people, such as people with disabilities, the most appropriate place of reception is always considered with the utmost care. My services are therefore always trying to find a match between the Ukrainian in question and the reception. If there is a problem here too, the local coordinator can examine how to find a solution in consultation with all concerned. With regard to the selection of foster families, a circular was sent to the local authorities and the local police to ensure security. At the level of the federated entities, measures have also been taken to follow up the minimum quality requirements of the reception facilities. I really think the local coordinator plays an important role. He often plays his role in a very good way. Of course, our country is sometimes rather complex in institutional terms, but everyone takes responsibility for it. I have had discussions with several local coordinators who are doing a remarkable job. They know very well who lives in the commune. They can pass these messages on to the coordinators of the federated entities. Work continues with the federal government. This work between levels of power is important. In most municipalities, this is going quite well. Where this is not going well, it must be pointed out. Mr Segers, due to the sudden influx of Ukrainians into the European Union, several Member States have developed a procedure to provide reception as soon as possible. In essence, there is no big difference with the Netherlands. We are also working with various civil society organisations. With the various partners, in particular with the local authorities and the Regions, we are constantly looking at how we can further improve reception for this target group. As far as the transition of recognised refugees is concerned, I would like to point out that the system of family care existed before the war in Ukraine. Of course, the current situation for the Länder can be an inspiration for thinking about how to improve certain systems. The differences between temporary protection or TPD and recognised refugee status obviously play a role, because the former stay here for a year and the others stay longer. It can provide interesting information for the Länder to draw lessons from their housing policies. Mrs Platteau, there are no precise figures on the number of people who have returned to Ukraine, also because the number is fluctuating. Some go back for a while to pick up stuff or family members and then return here. It is difficult to estimate their number because there is a risk of double counting. Sometimes, on the basis of certain information, people think it's safe to go back to it, and then find out on the spot that they'd better come back here. We must therefore remain careful with estimates, with assumptions that the problem is no longer there and with the assessment that everything is in order in the area of housing. Mr Segers, the unaccompanied minors must continue to receive our attention. They are taken care of by families or by a family. I myself do not have the authority to carry out checks on accommodation, but it is important that there is sufficient attention to the situation in which minors are being taken care of. Police control and its follow-up is the responsibility of the local police but must also be monitored by the competent authorities. We have already worked out cases with the competent colleagues, but it is important that further attention is paid to this and that the local police do the job well. This is also the case in most municipalities. Minister Verlinden has also taken the initiative to ensure that this is properly monitored at local level. Of course, local police will also handle the situation of unaccompanied minors with caution. In addition to the police, the Voogdij Service also plays an important role. They shall appoint a guardian for each unaccompanied minor. This guardian also watches over the greater importance of the child. In this respect, I think there is also a need for additional guardians who can follow each child individually. Minister Van Quickenborne has indicated that he wants to make additional efforts. I don't want to speak for anyone else. All I can say is that we sat around the table with Minister Van Quickenborne. It has indicated that there is a need for sufficient guardians to be able to follow everyone individually. A guardian is the best contact person to know what's going on and how to deal with things. We've known the problem of capacity at the Voogdij Service for a while. That's not new. This has only been exacerbated by the Ukraine crisis, where one in three Ukrainians arriving in Belgium appears to be under 12 years old. That is why it is good that extra budget is available and additional efforts are made by the Voogdij Service. We've been hammering on that for a long time. I have also dropped this a few times in this committee. It is good that the Ukraine crisis in this area may also be an opportunity to strengthen significantly and structurally the Voogdij Service, which is providing hard and difficult work. The structural aspect is particularly important. It is not intended to refuel now, the Voogdij Service must be able to do its work permanently. I also think it is important that minors and adults enter the regular circuit. I have said a few times that it is a bad thing that Facebook groups have been created who, with the best of intentions, want to organise things themselves. Through these Facebook groups we also try to give the message that it has to go through the regular circuit. We are also constantly looking at how we can spread that message even more. We call on citizens to be vigilant, because not everything happens in the eyes of the government and it is important that vulnerable people are protected and that problems can be reported. That is why everyone in the registration centre is informed, including people who say they do not need help because they know where to go. They get a phone number they can call if there's a problem. These people should not think that they have all the information on Facebook. They need to know there's someone on the other side of the phone line they can reach. Mr Segers, you rightly spoke about the need for sufficient supply to prevent people from resorting to the informal circuit. For me too, it was a condition that the contact point in Brussels-South of la Croix-Rouge was manned both at night and at weekends before the Heysel could be closed at certain hours. At the Heysel we shortened the hours a little because fewer people arrived, but the condition was that there were sufficient staff available for Brussels-South. In the first days people could visit the Heysel until 10:00 p.m., but since those hours have been shortened, these people must now be able to go elsewhere. I am very pleased that La Croix-Rouge has made that effort. Perhaps we do not emphasise that enough, but besides Fedasil, besides the Foreign Affairs Service and next to the police, there are also the Red Cross and la Croix-Rouge working, not only on the Heysel, but also on the premises. They are doing important work to ensure that people are properly followed up when they come here and that they are given the best possible protection, because that is, in my view, our greatest challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed answers to the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I will focus on what I am less satisfied with, your response to the unaccompanied minors. You say that permanent attention is needed, but that the housing control is not within your jurisdiction; the local police have to do their job, and in most municipalities that is done well. But you signed the letter with Minister Verlinden and Minister Van Quickenborne. However you turn it or turn it, it is a failure of the government that the guardian cannot be identified immediately. I know you'll get better. That's great. There's gonna be structural improvement. The question is, however, what are we doing in the meantime? We really need to get a look at the Ukrainian unaccompanied minors who are in a different home situation. To say that there is a circular and asking the cities and the municipalities to do the control is not enough. We must now make sure that the cities and the municipalities do so. We must therefore monitor this centrally, in order to ensure that it happens during the interim period, for each of those Ukrainian unaccompanied minors. This doesn't mean anything about my appreciation for what happens in the longer term. I think that's very good. As far as the distraction is concerned, I would have expected a little more. I went looking for it myself. I've been foaming off a number of websites, and it didn't turn out to be so hard to find some crooked ads. I've seen that one of your associates systematically addresses the forums on Facebook. He's doing a great job. But it has to be much more structural. After all, there are many platforms. You're saying those Facebook groups are in their own right. Actually, I don't think so. A lot of things are being organized there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u11	Then I may have misunderstood you. All the better. There are also a lot of things that need to be organized. Anyway. It is necessary, however, to systematically address the people who are in these groups. That's not hard either, because their contact details are there. There's already a Flemish helpline. Refugee work Flanders is working on that. It gets a lot of questions that are also asked in those forums. The host families ask the same questions there. The Ukrainians who present themselves there ask the same questions. Why should we not appoint a civil society organisation such as Caritas or a similar civil society organisation to do so systematically? They see that things can go wrong. There is another Ukrainian woman who is looking for shelter and says she will come to work in return. There's no need to work in exchange. That woman needs to be led to the Heysel as soon as possible. I believe that this should be done in a structural way, and this is certainly possible in practice. The information is very easy to find on the internet. I hope you will adopt a more structural approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, I too would like to acknowledge the special efforts of the services. They have 40,000 certificates of temporary protection in a short period of time, and this deserves recognition. It will not be the intention to move the registration center on the Heysel. It is good to be prepared for any increase in the number of applications. Since I did not mention in my question the issue of the European distribution of refugees, I might be able to put a separate question on this. I agree with you that personal care should be a temporary and not a sustainable or structural measure. The return figures show that the status of temporary protection offers some flexibility, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u13	Mr. Mahdi, you're really ready to be president of the CD&V, now that I hear your communication here. Last time, I was able to give you the benefit of the doubt because at that time you might not have been aware of the precise achievements in Brussels and Wallonia for collective care. However, you are now saying that I should request this information from the competent authorities or authorities, and I do not think that this is a serious way of working. I find it difficult to imagine that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who has the latest data, is not aware of the situation on the ground, both in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. I regret that you refer me to other governments, where my party is not represented, but that may change in the future. We shall see what reaction that will bring about in Wallonia and Brussels, but I do not think this is realistic. I'm sorry you didn't answer my question. You yourself say that you need to communicate more clearly and clearly, and that is one of your main lines of action, but I suggest that you do so yourself in the months or weeks that you still remain as Secretary of State and that you provide better data. Flanders seems to me to be fulfilling its commitments and is making great efforts. Wallonia and Brussels are at least behind. In the worst case scenario, they do not meet their commitments at all. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to make a clearer statement on this, but I cannot do so if I do not get the correct statistics and data. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u14	Secretary of State, I am hearing today that you are a candidate for the Chair of the CD&V. I didn't know that. Congratulations! I was wondering who was going to place him today. It wasn't me! I congratulate you even if it is not yet done. Your answers were quite complete and I thank you for that. Where I'm joining you, it's about the fact that everyone has to take responsibility for welcoming. Hosters do. They have done so since 2015 when it was necessary to welcome a whole series of people. At some point, I think we should thank them, in one way or another, for their participation in this joint effort. Let us not forget that, in parallel, there is tension in the situation of the reception network, apart from Ukrainian refugees. The municipalities must play a role at this level. I am glad to see that in Genappe, a new reception centre will open. In Molenbeek, the project to open a centre always raises questions. I hope that the mayor will be able to take a step forward in welcoming the other refugees. With regard to the different figures, the role of the coordinators is fundamental, but there is also the role of the governors. The latter could perhaps do a job of matching the figures to make the work of the communes more effective. This task could be assigned to them in the coming weeks. The issue of perspective is important. As you said, it is not obvious for the refugees who settle at home to anchor themselves because their hope is always to be able to return quickly to Ukraine. You can see that in the numbers of school attendance. It is not easy for a young person to go to school in a country when he or she thinks he or she will go home. This is a work to be done which, for the moment, is not yours but that of the Communities. I think it is worth exploring this issue in CIM Migration or elsewhere because integration through schooling is really fundamental. In addition, psychological support should also be provided to these young and old.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. Even today, you are Secretary of State. It is important to stress this. This is the function you are assuming and I think that, as it stands, we need you to answer our questions and to act as well. I have no doubt that, whatever future you choose later, you will lead it well. Anyway, today you're our Secretary of State, so I'm coming back to you. I hear, not from your mouth, an unfortunate debate by some colleagues who are beginning to oppose Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. This is a regrettable debate that has no place here. These are the very ones I found much less enthusiastic when it came to reaching out to Afghans or even Syrians. Suddenly, they become so when it comes to Ukrainians. This reminds me of De Stemming's poll in De Standaard this morning. It is perhaps this effect that makes us feel solidarity with Ukraine and much less with other countries. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to solidarity, there is no question of the origin of people. It is a question of how to reach out in accordance with our skills and our duty of solidarity. Mr Secretary of State, I am well aware that, in this case, an important role must be played by the federated entities. But I admit that from the beginning, I believe that this role should have been fulfilled by the federal government and that it is for a question of status that the federated entities are responsible for this role. I regret this because they do not have the experience of Fedasil, the federal state to carry out a first accompaniment, a first follow-up, to provide mental health assistance, assistance to vulnerable minors, etc. I would have hoped that, for a short period of three or four months, the first reception relay could be taken over by the federal government. There is also the issue of context. I can't accept people saying Wallonia isn't doing her job. It is easy to look at the figures, but we must also take into account the phenomena, the situations. Wallonia is facing situations resulting from the floods it has experienced. She must always relocate people in difficulty. That is the reality. Isn't that right, Mr. Franken? Wallonia must assume this important role. We can't make distinctions. In addition, Wallonia also faces an important presence of collective reception structures. I don't have a problem with that. I am also very pleased that reception centres are opened by Fedasil in Wallonia and that we are fulfilling our role. However, the question arises of the balance of distributions in terms of the support of applicants for international protection in all provinces and regions of the country. We will then be able to speak of true solidarity, and everyone will be able to assume his or her rightful role. In conclusion, let us not oppose the Regions. This is not the debate we are debating today. Let's find a solution for Ukrainians. Let's relieve families who need opportunities. Indeed, as Mrs Platteau said, if tomorrow the demands increase and if there are no more families to welcome, what will be done? This is the fear for the coming months that will be very difficult for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, the last intervention was politically the most relevant, I believe. I hear the representative of the PS says that they are already doing a lot, they are doing what they can, but it would actually be better if the federal level were to take more responsibility for, among other things, the unaccompanied young people for at least a few months in the beginning, ab initio. I hear that from several majority parties, but certainly from the PS. I can only support that. We have said from the outset that hashtaq PlekVrij is a holdederbolder approach. You said that it was only for a moment, but apparently that is not the case. In Wallonia and Brussels this is permanent because there is no collective shelter. So it will be hashtaq Free there for a long time, with all the consequences of that. For many families that is not obvious, because they thought it was only temporary. There are now massive reports that it is not the intention to keep these people in the house for years. I understand that, too. I respect the solidarity shown by many families by doing so. You also said that we should do the shelter that way, because what came to us was unseen. However, this is not apparent from the figures. You say that it is unseen in terms of registration, but it was not about registration, but about the reception pressure. You were laughing about the reception crisis of 2014 and 2015. You said it was peanuts against what we'd get now. The first two months after the conflict in Ukraine, fewer people arrived than after Angela Merkel's "Wir purchase tie" in 2014 and 2015. That's not even true. You have chosen the flight ahead and you now get the lid on the nose. You say that they can always sign up for voluntary return and that it may also be possible to start forced return. Quod nun. How much forced return has started? That won't be anything, but I'll check it out. Those are talk you're selling here. Finally, with regard to the local police directives, my local police have received one directive from your government, namely the directive that we are not allowed to screen them. You can't do that. It would then be considered whether a solution could not be found, but it is still not there. I have still not received a new directive. Can we screen now or not? According to the privacy law, we're not allowed to. I know that a number of municipalities and mayors fill that out very creatively, but our police are not prepared to do so. With us there is therefore no screening of the host families of hashtaq PlekVrij. All we can do is look at the criminal record, check whether it's blank or not, but there are also other police databases, such as the ANG, that can be particularly relevant for screening and that are separate from the criminal record. Before being condemned in Belgium, people have gone a long way. Colleagues, this is clearly getting a serious tail. It is clear that there is no consensus on this and that there is a clear demand from Wallonia for a federal phase to be foreseen for at least a few months. I can't wait to see where that leads. In Flanders, collective care is provided but not in Wallonia and Brussels. According to them, the refugees should only stay at home with the people, perhaps for years. That's not a solution either. You are legally obliged to assume your responsibility in that regard. I find this flight behaviour in many ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u17	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 29 April 2022, the ex-boss of Frontex, Fabrice Leggeri, resigned following several accusations against Frontex of involvement in illegal pushbacks. There was also an incriminating OLAF report which mentioned fraud at the Frontex summit and in which we also specifically would not have access to the report, but only had access to the media to find out what was leaked about the case. The responsibility of Leggeri was demonstrated when covering up evidence of pushbacks. Those are serious accusations, aren't they? I have already asked you and the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, questions on the issue. Belgium is, of course, represented on Frontex's board. On the day that Leggeri announced his resignation, namely on 29 April 2022, the Management Board also met to discuss the case, also following the disciplinary proceedings initiated on the basis of the OLAF report. In reply to my questions to the Minister for the Interior, I was told that she was in consultation with the Belgian representative for the disciplinary investigation procedure. In your capacity as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, yourself also stated that the Belgian position would be determined and that the government would give instructions to the Belgian representation on the board of directors. As a result of the dismissal, I have the following questions. Can you tell us whether the resignation was voluntary or whether or not it was also directed by the board of directors to resign? Has the disciplinary procedure been completed? What was the outcome of the disciplinary procedure? Has Belgium also asked for the resignation of Leggeri on the board of directors? When will we have access to the OLAF report? I've asked that question several times. Are there any indications in the OLAF report, if you have had access to it, that Mr Leggeri can also be prosecuted for certain offences? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, what does the resignation mean for the future of the European Agency? How will the search for a new director go? Is that also an authority of the board of directors? Does Belgium have a say in the search?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, in addition to the human rights questions raised by a report showing that Frontex made 22 pushbacks between 2020 and 2021, I recall that Frontex has an annual budget of 584 million euros, paid by the citizens. The proper management of such a body is fundamental in terms of human rights but also in terms of transparency for citizens. Most of the questions were asked. Mr. Leggeri resigned. What is Belgium's position on this resignation? Has it been requested, in particular from the Council of Ministers? What follow-up will be given? What reforms will be required? The government agreement accepts the strengthening of European borders subject to respect for human rights. How will Belgium ensure that human rights are respected at the borders of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u19	Secretary of State, the newspaper Le Monde published on May 3 a ruthless investigation into the Frontex agency. It highlighted, in particular on the basis of internal documents, that the Agency had returned no less than 957 people between March 2020 and September 2021 to the Greek border. They were migrants who were sometimes thrown out of the sea without even a bottle of water or a lifejacket. Not content with these actions, the agency also tried to camouflage them in "prevention operations at the start". This case is so huge that the director of the agency was forced to resign. We have already mentioned these facts with you on many occasions in this committee. You replied, in the spirit, that the law should apply everywhere. An attitude up to this scandal must be taken! Mr Secretary of State, did you immediately request a meeting of the JHA Council to deal with this matter? If not, why and when do you intend to do it? What structural measures do you intend to take to reform Frontex in depth – this sinking ship whose actions are constantly condemned – and to put in place real means of control? What instructions have you given to Belgian representatives on Frontex's board of directors, in consultation with your colleague in charge of the Interior, following the revelations in the press? What judicial follow-up will be reserved for this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, it became known at the end of February that the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) had produced a very critical report on Frontex. The report would prove that Frontex is involved in migrant pushbacks. Two months later, on 29 April, the head of Frontex, Mr Leggeri, resigned. This in turn proves that the facts are very serious. Nor is it the first time that Mr Leggeri has been confounded. For example, he refused to recruit 40 human rights officers, but had 63 personal staff members at his disposal. Last year it came to light that he had met with various companies and interest groups, including the arms industry and the security sector, and that he had lied about this in the European Parliament. With human rights organizations, he had strangely no encounters. Unfortunately, OLAF's report has not yet been published. The resignation of Mr Leggeri seems necessary, but it is not enough to ensure that Frontex maintains human rights at the borders of Europe. The fact that far-reaching corruption could take place under the nose of the European Commission is largely a problematic political foundation. The right of asylum in Europe has been under pressure for a long time because of very questionable considerations. Illegal pushbacks are bypassed by national emergency situations and are implicitly permitted. For example, Poland is not being prosecuted for its illegal pushback policy and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen stated in 2020 that Greece is the shield for the rest of Europe. This means that European law on asylum and migration is in fact being instrumentalised in the context of internal European power relations. The fact that Mr Leggeri is now the head of this policy as an extension does not necessarily change the policy itself. Instead of barely responding to European pushbacks, European leaders need to reflect on a holistic and progressive migration policy that is not blind to the causes of migration and its own accessory. Mr Secretary of State, what steps have you taken to enforce respect for European law? Has Belgium, as a member of the Frontex Governing Council, been able to look at the OLAF report? If so, what can you tell us about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the Executive Director Leggeri has resigned himself. On 28 and 29 April 2022, an extraordinary meeting of the Board of Directors of Frontex took place. OLAF's report was on its agenda. During the meeting, the Executive Director had the opportunity to present his views on the first day. He stated that he wished to resign from all his duties and to terminate his mission at the Agency with immediate effect. The Board took note of this and concluded that the cooperation had therefore been completed. At present, OLAF's report is not public. Political authorities therefore do not have access to this report. At the same meeting, the Management Board had to decide on the disciplinary aspect of the procedure. That was done by secret ballot. In view of the resignation of the Executive Director, the Management Board decided that any disciplinary procedure would not be subject to review. Personally, I think it is important that we look carefully at what has happened here. It is then up to the judiciary to consider whether criminal proceedings should be followed, but I believe that an investigation can never be wrong. You also asked questions about the future of the agency. The Management Board has designated the Deputy Executive Director with the highest seniority as acting Executive Director in order to ensure continuity. The Management Board will designate an ad interim Deputy Executive Director at a subsequent stage. This appointment is necessary as an Acting Executive Director cannot take strategic long-term decisions. The procedure for the appointment of a fully-fledged new Executive Director will also take some time. That is why an acting Executive Director is first appointed, then a deputy and then a new one. The European Commission was therefore invited to launch this procedure as soon as possible. The Council is an official institution of the Union, with legislative and budgetary powers described in the European Treaties. Control of the Frontex agency by the Council is possible in accordance with Regulation 2019/1896 on the agency. The mandate of Frontex has been revised several times. The last revision was in 2019. The Agency is currently engaged in the implementation of its new missions. The implementation of Frontex's mandate is regularly monitored by the Board of Directors and within the relevant Council formations. No further revision of the Agency's mandate is planned at this stage. I think it is important that the Agency can continue to carry out its important tasks effectively and, of course, legitimately. The legal framework for this already exists. Today, there is already extensive control by management board, an informal monitoring group in the European Parliament, a group within Frontex's Board of Directors, which investigates the incidents, the federal right officers, which have been strengthened. This has been discussed in this committee several times. There are also human rights monitors and the European Court of Auditors. Many of these control mechanisms are relatively new and have been introduced, moreover, with the support of Belgium. Our country will not hesitate, as it has done in the past, to remind at European level that the Agency must act in accordance with Union law and international law, including the principle of non-refoulement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, if I have understood correctly, Mr Leggeri himself resigned after submitting himself to the Management Board in connection with the discussion of the OLAF report. I would welcome the fact that the disciplinary procedure is being completed, even if it is not subject to the dismissal procedure. However, I find it strange that you say that the OLAF report is not public and that the political leaders have no access to it. The Minister for the Interior has told me that she is consulting with the Belgian representative of the federal police. It should, however, take a position on that disciplinary procedure in that Management Board. The fact that there will be no access to the OLAF report seems strange to me. I assume that our Belgian representative will have access to that report, so it seems strange to me to take a joint Belgian position. That's still a mystery to me. You say that Frontex will at least continue its task within the legal framework, including the non-refoulement principle, which is very important. I would like to stress that Frontex's mission is border controls, but with respect for international law. Border checks should not be treated as exclusion from the asylum procedure. It is important to note that border controls are perfectly possible with respect for human rights and with the guarantee of access to the asylum procedure. Monitoring human rights is also a very important task for Frontex. We have established that this happened far too little or even not. There were also far too slow human rights officers recruited. This brings me to the issue of transparency and accountability of the Agency. The Moutquin referred to the increase in the budget from EUR 6 million in 2005 to EUR 543 million in 2021. That is a huge budget for an agency, which also employs 1,500 people. Some accountability and transparency are therefore appropriate. Frontex is not only accountable to the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The website also contains the following information: "Frontex is accountable to national border guard authorities sitting in the agencies management board." Frontex is therefore also accountable to the Belgian Parliament. I regret that the OLAF report, the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office, is not made public, just because of the importance of transparency. The director is now fired, but what happens to other stakeholders at the Frontex Summit? Are there disciplinary proceedings against them? Was it just about that one person, or was something really structuralally wrong with that organization? I think Frontex really needs a cultural change. That is absolutely necessary in view of the accusations made and the dysfunction of Frontex. It is also important for the future of our European border policy that we have a strong agency that respects European values and human rights. To this end, we have also tabled a resolution which I hope will be supported by all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u23	My colleague, Mrs Platteau, responded very well for the Ecolo-Groen Group. I just want to thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I repeat, it has long been said that Frontex is an instrument whose mandate is not sufficiently defined and which is not under sufficient scrutiny, otherwise we would not be there today. In view of the missions that are his, more controls are needed and certainly something more than the control of a board of directors. If we have such shameful facts today and if these facts are not enough to open the eyes of all the European states to take the necessary measures and put an end to these acts, I do not know what it takes to achieve this! European Union-mandated agents have not only flouted the very most basic principles of European asylum and migration law, they have rejected no less than 957 people at sea and I am only talking about what happened at the Greek border. We are not talking about what can happen in the Balkans or on the border with Ukraine, where students of extra-European origin have also denounced discriminatory or even openly racist treatment. That's enough now! That's really enough! Indeed, that the director of the agency resigns is a very good thing, but it is not because the head is cut off and a new head is put on that the body is doing well. The body is gangreneous from head to toe. Measures must therefore be taken to transplant a new head onto a healthy body. This will require trial and punishment of the perpetrators. A thorough, independent and uncompromising inspection of this agency will be required from the cellar to the attic. This inspection will also have to have criminal consequences, if any. Above all, we must stop to allow such sensitive missions to be entrusted to an agency with what? A board of directors! It's not right. Today, it is hundreds of millions of euros of public money that are spent on the budgets of such a body without it being directly dependent on a democratically elected body and not primarily on a board of directors. I can't believe it! The status of this agency, its mandate and its means of control must be completely reviewed. I expect you to take this word from Belgium to your European colleagues. My colleague, Mrs Platteau, has reminded us that we have a resolution that is here today and that we need to talk about. This resolution calls on Belgium to assume its responsibilities and to go and say: "Stop! The shameful recreation is over!" We're counting on you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, I find it strange that there is still so much uncertainty as to who has or has not been given access to the OLAF report. That information should be made public as soon as possible, not just for the supervision of the Management Board. It really shouldn't be a cover-up. The resignation of Mr Leggeri at Frontex does not necessarily mean that European migration policy will change anything in the facts. However, this is necessary if Europe itself has allowed the pushbacks and has so far, above all, reacted passively to the emergence of right-wing repressive migration policies and rhetoric. It is important to address the causes of migration. That is of fundamental importance. With another deterrent campaign, we won't get there. In addition, there is a need for an inclusive and progressive vision of migration and how it is shaped in policy. The right to asylum must not be undermined or undermined. Put consistent pressure on your European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, on Thursday 28 April 2022 Fedasil organised a round table with several partners active in the reception and supervision of unaccompanied minors in Belgium. At present, Fedasil has a growing need for shelters for unaccompanied minors, which means that solutions must be sought for this vulnerable target group. The participants formulated concrete proposals and Fedasil forwarded these recommendations to the political leaders at an inter-ministerial conference on unaccompanied minors. In order to strengthen support for unaccompanied minors, a number of objectives and the related concrete actions are considered necessary. The first objective is to provide sufficient reception places for applicants for international protection as well as for non- applicants, including adapted places for unaccompanied minors with a specific profile, namely very young, socially vulnerable or with a special medical or psychological context. What concrete actions will you take in this regard? The second objective is to work towards reaching and orienting minors on the streets by providing accessible reception and guidance. What concrete actions will you take in this regard? The third objective is to ensure a smooth transition for unaccompanied minors who have obtained the right of residence in Belgium, while ensuring adequate accommodation and guidance. How will you investigate how to promote the transition of unaccompanied minors and ex-unaccompanied minors with right of residence in Belgium? The fifth objective is to ensure good prevention and efficient and adequate follow-up of the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. What is your approach to further inform and train staff taking care of unaccompanied minors in relation to disappearance? When will the roadmap for all primary actors for prevention and follow-up of disappearance be ready? What are the results of the working group on the disappearance of unaccompanied minors? Can you give an overview of the number of disappearances for the year 2021 to date? The eighth objective is to approach migration policy holistically, continuously monitor and evaluate pull and push factors for migration and, where necessary, take action to address them. What concrete measures will you take to achieve these objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u27	Mr Secretary of State, on 29 April last, you reported on Twitter a first agreement of the Inter-Ministerial Conference Migration on unaccompanied minors. You spoke of better care, better age screening and better guidance. It concerns an important agreement on a much discussed topic in the Committee on the Interior, for which many recommendations have already been made. That is what we want to get some more information on. Mr Secretary of State, what specific subject areas have been agreed on and what exactly does this involve with regard to the reception, guidance and screening of age? Do you have a guarantee that age checks will be carried out more quickly and consistently if there is any doubt about the age stated? In this context, was an agreement also reached on sanctions in the event of a possible lack of cooperation? If so, what exactly are these sanctions? The same question also applies to age fraud, which unfortunately still takes place on a large scale. What exactly was agreed about the spacious Flemish benefit system, including the Flemish Growth Package, of which, as you yourself have already indicated, there is undoubtedly a suction effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, the two colleagues have already outlined the situation. I have two questions. What is the content of the agreement concluded within the Interministerial Conference? More importantly, what are the following themes to be addressed within the IMC?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, the Voogdij service continues to suffer from an acute shortage of guardians and resources. Because of these deficits, the individual workload of the guardians is far too high and cannot properly guide the young people assigned to them. Several times the workers reported the acute problems, but without results. Let me give you an example of the scale of the problem. In the middle of March, more than 700 children were on the waiting list. Today it has already become a small 1,000. Because of these problems, on 17 March, the Voogdij service carried out punctuality actions to keep the work viable, but above all to put pressure on politics to find solutions for the NBMVs. This strategy has paid off. Minister Van Quickenborne has come to answer to Terzoe and promised 15 new guardians and a better follow-up of the guardians. In the meantime, the promise was even raised from 15 to 23. In total, it would amount to several millions of investments. That shows the power of the working class. However, we must note that nothing has changed in the workplace today. The fear is that nothing will change this year, so neither new guardians nor more intensive follow-up, while waiting lists will continue to grow. Currently, only guardians are appointed in the event of extreme distress. If we have to wait until next year, it will be a catastrophe. Mr Secretary of State, on 29 April an already postponed inter-ministerial conference was held, dedicated to the NBMVs. What was the outcome of this conference? What concrete steps will be taken? What about the capacity in the NBMV collection centres? Are there enough places for the flow in the first phase and also in the second and third stages?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u30	Colleagues, on 28 April Fedasil indeed organised a round table with various partners active in the reception and supervision of unaccompanied minors in Belgium. About 100 people participated in this online meeting, including the Red Cross, integration centres, the Departments of Youth and Education and guardians. You will undoubtedly know that working with civil society and all stakeholders is an important issue for me. The round table led to proposals for the reception, guidance and integration of minors. Partnerships are needed here. The Agency is currently analysing the proposed slopes and converting them into an action plan. Ms Safai, the objectives to which you refer are those that were prepared in the IMC and approved on 29 April 2022. I will briefly go over the objectives that were knocked off there. The first objective is to provide adequate reception facilities. Mrs Daems, you also asked me if there are sufficient shelters for unaccompanied minors at the moment. There is a decline in the arrival of unaccompanied minors, which led to a little more breathing space in the first phase. Capacity utilisation is currently slightly below 70%. That is, of course, a good thing as we were at some point at unprecedented heights. Places have been added and that has led to breathing space. There is traditionally an increase in arrival in spring and summer. So we need to be prepared and not think that we should not worry about the current figures. Caution is needed and we certainly should not move too quickly towards the closure of shelters, as has been done far too often in the past. In the second phase of the shelter, it remains tight. There the capacity utilisation rate is almost 97%. In the third phase, it is 72%. The reception capacity for this target group remains therefore a challenge. In cooperation with several partners, there are already projects that accompany and absorb unaccompanied minors with a more vulnerable profile. Discussions are also ongoing with several of these and other partners to continue existing projects, to launch new projects and to create more adapted reception places. Now let me say something about the second objective of working with minors on the streets. There is also the Xtra MENA project that I have already discussed in this committee. For three years, an outreach project has been funded by Fedasil, which aims to inform and guide the difficult-to-achieve unaccompanied minors and to sensitise, form and support the first-line actors and professionals who come into contact with this target group. There are also discussions with Médecins Sans Frontières, Minor-Ndako and Samusocial to see if and under what conditions we can better guide this target group to the more regular care. With regard to unaccompanied minors with a street profile, a budget has already been made available to provide a reception path tailored to this vulnerable target group, starting with a low-threshold walk-in house with night care. Local partners, such as the municipality of Anderlecht and Macadam, are also involved. Cooperation is also needed with the Brussels-Capital Region, the Flemish Community and the French Community, responsible for youth aid. We all know how difficult this target group is. These include Moroccan youngsters from 10 to 11 years old sniffing glue at the station. One must try to convince them to be caught through the regular circuit. That is not always obvious, because it is often a question of confidence that one needs to build up. The third objective is to further examine how to improve the transition of a minor with right of residence. During their stay in a collective reception structure, minors are, of course, gradually being prepared for a more independent life. With regard to the disappearances, there is currently a hard work on a roadmap, in cooperation with many actors. A national protocol is also being drawn up between the departments concerned to facilitate the follow-up of disappearances, a long-standing demand from many organisations. Then I come to the figures on the number of disappearances. Fedasil only has figures of unaccompanied minors who have been assigned a place of refuge and who have disappeared. Among disappearances, Fedasil counts three categories, namely people who have not arrived, worrying disappearances and spontaneous departure at the right of shelter. They're all contained in the numbers. It is not obvious to distinguish between them. A final objective worth mentioning is to monitor and evaluate the pull and push factors. That is something that we must constantly look at, to know why unaccompanied minors come to Belgium, which is why they leave and why they want to come to Belgium. A monitoring of the reasons why one comes to Belgium as a minor in a holistic way is one of the things that we need to focus on. This was also agreed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. As far as age studies are concerned, an advisory board is currently working. He is working on a report with recommendations, in order to have a broad debate on this in the committee responsible. We know that there are problems with age surveys, as some refugees claim to be underage and appear to be of age after research. We must have the ambition to avoid misuse of the procedure and conduct proper age surveys. That is in the interests of the real minors and all the employees of the competent department. For the Growth Package, measures have already been taken at the Flemish level, which will give the unaccompanied minors received by Fedasil only one third of their Growth Package, just like all other Flemish young people staying in an institution. I would also like to emphasise that I am satisfied that the IMC accepted my note. It shows that all the governments of our country want to make a clear commitment to this target group. Various operations have been included for each objective, which will be implemented by the relevant federal and sub-state ministers. It was also agreed to provide follow-up within the IMC next year in order to avoid that the engagements will remain dead letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. There is still a great deal of work to be done in this area and we will follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, things have already happened, but when it comes to age checks, age fraud and possible sanctions, I notice that little or no progress has been made. This is probably due to the fact that it does not seem as good to your coalition partners if you want to take the necessary steps. I will put forward additional questions to find out what you will do in the coming months to deal with this. If you do not do so, many other measures will have very little effect. The suction effect will continue - even though this problem with the Growth Package has now been solved... if abusers learn that in Belgium there are no consistent sanctions for fraud and abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, your answer to the first question was very clear and comprehensive, but I am still a little hungry as far as my second question is concerned. Should I conclude from this that no further IMC has yet been planned and that no topics have yet been defined?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u34	Yes, but I like to keep the tension in.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u35	You're right. However, I agree with Mr Van Langenhove that the suction effect of Flanders should also be discussed, because it is impossible for this to continue and for more people to come into Flanders. We are in favour of a fairer distribution, so I would take that to the discussions anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, the situation of unaccompanied minors is heading towards a social catastrophe. I think it is a good thing that you seem to take this seriously, but time is crucial here. The waiting lists at the Voogdij service predict the worst if they are not dealt with immediately. That should be a priority issue for all the policy makers involved, because it concerns extremely vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u37	Are there any other replies? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u38	Mrs Van Langenhove, I mean Mr Van Langenhove, you can ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u39	Mr President, these days, of course, you can never be sure. Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of April 2022 it became known that the European Commission is proposing to make the favourable trade tariffs enjoyed by many third countries partly dependent in the future on their willingness to take back their illegal nationals. This is a remarkable proposal, since the European Union has so far, to say the least, been extremely reluctant to use negative incentives or the stick, as I have mentioned here a number of times, to encourage third countries to cooperate more with their illegally staying nationals. This is also apparent from the Court's most recent report. The favour regime that many countries enjoy is already linked to conditions such as respect for the environment, human rights and labour rights and good governance. In that list, cooperation in the fight against illegal migration would not be inappropriate. The opposite is true. We are, therefore, a long-running party in this area, particularly in view of the fact that I refer once again to the report of the European Court of Auditors, which deals with the current European Union's return system with enormous inefficiency, which even encourages illegal migration. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm that the European Commission has made such a proposal? In a response in De Tijd on 7 April 2022, you were absolutely in favour of linking trade support to the willingness to take people back. Do you interpret the position of the entire government and the position you express in the consultations on this matter? Is the European Commission's proposal already the subject of a discussion at European interministerial level? If so, what position has Belgium taken on this matter? If not, when can we expect an initiative in this respect? What will be the official Belgian position, if any? I believe that there is another question which is close to that. Once again, we are talking about a promise in the field of the European Commission and the European Union which you have repeatedly expressed, but which we have had to wait for so far. In the past, you have repeatedly said that you are in favour of sanctions for third countries which are refusing to take back their illegally staying nationals. A certain amount of progress has unfortunately not yet been made in this area. Since the revision of the Schengen Visa Code, the Commission is obliged to assess at least once a year the cooperation of third countries in the field of readmission, after which the Council may link positive or negative effects with the findings of the report. Last year, no fewer than 13 countries would have received the worst possible assessment, while most other African and Asian countries proved to be only weak. In the end, this resulted in visa sanctions against one particular country, in particular Gambia. That is a sad result, but I think you too are largely in agreement with it. Meanwhile, a new cycle has begun. Mr Secretary of State, an answer to the following questions would help us to do our parliamentary work properly and properly. Has the European Commission completed its new report? If so, what are the Commission's main findings? Which countries score insufficient, weak or very weak? Has this report already been the subject of discussions in the European Council? Do you think there is a real chance that visa sanctions will be issued this time against more than one country, preferably against countries representing more illegal migration? When can we expect concrete results?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u40	Mr van Langenhove, states have a legal obligation to take back nationals who are not entitled to stay. The European Council of Heads of State or Government has spoken on several occasions, with the support of Belgium, to use the necessary levers to improve the implementation of readmission agreements. It is also my conviction that we should not only speak with one European voice on return, but that we should also dare to use the necessary levers, including the visa instrument or the trade sector. The Member States of the EU are now using the Schengen Visa Code for the second year to take action when third countries refuse this manifesto or cooperate remarkably well. Of course, that can go in either direction. The Commission's annual report on readmission cooperation under the Article 25a procedure was submitted to the Member States on 30 December 2021. It's a classified report, so I can't tell you what its content is. It has not yet been discussed in the Council of Ministers, but it has already been discussed in several technical working groups, the Working Party on Integration, Migration and Expulsion, the EMWP and the Visa Working Group. The procedure laid down in Article 25a shall continue for a period of one year. It will therefore be closed again at the end of December. On 22 September 2000 the European Commission published a proposal for a Regulation on the application of a system of generalized preferences. Among other things, it provides for the possibility of temporarily withdrawing tariff favor regimes for countries that do not take their nationals back. The favor regimes also concern the trade sector. The Belgian Government has always argued at EU level to develop mechanisms to encourage unwilling countries to cooperate in the field of return. The Commission proposal has been examined in the Council of the European Union within the framework of the Trade Policy Committee since October 2021. After obtaining clarifications from the Commission on the functioning of the mechanism, Belgium was able to support the provisions on readmission. The proposal was also discussed in the European Parliament. I would also like to remind you that the imposition of sanctions is not an end in itself but is important in the context of a better reading mission. There is also an ongoing dialogue with countries to try to sensitise them. If it succeeds in this way, it always leads to sustainable results. Sanctions are a last resort. The reality is that this last resort is more often needed than ever, not only in the case of Gambia. I look forward to seeing how we are going to land by the end of the year for the new countries that may then be sanctioned. The first country was effectively Gambia. I have said that I am satisfied that steps are being taken but that I am not satisfied with the countries on the list. Gambia is the first case, but that is mainly symbolic in nature. After all, the European Union is taking the decision to finally sanction a country collectively. However, we must go much further. I am convinced that we need to sanction many more countries. I hope that by the end of the year we will be able to move towards countries which, if they do not cooperate in return, will also be sanctioned much more. If that is not the case, I will be very disappointed with the procedure. When I speak to my colleagues from Migration at European level, I have the feeling that almost everyone is following, because I have not actually heard anyone who thinks that countries should not be sanctioned. All countries must therefore simply have the courage to put countries on that list, even if they are sometimes afraid of damaging certain bilateral relations. The reality is that the figures are not good throughout the European Union, because countries of origin do not do what is expected of them. They have an international duty, just like we do. If I were to say from Belgium about people who are entitled to international protection that 20% of the people who are allowed to be here are allowed to stay here and the rest are not, then I will get the whole world over me. Conversely, that should also apply. If we do not need protection and return to the country of origin, we must return to the country of origin. Then that country of origin has no reason to refuse. Period. The European Union has been too flexible in this for far too long and has thought for far too long to be able to resolve it diplomatically. The reality is that we are 20 to 30 years later where we stand today, which is not much further. Europe must finally show its teeth once in a while, otherwise we will end up with a people who are rightly frustrated and with national politicians who are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I am sure you can count on those national politicians who are frustrated by the lack of a proper policy of sanctions with regard to the readmission of illegal nationals. Almost all the Ministers of Migration you speak are apparently in favour of sanctioning more countries because they are not prepared to take back illegal nationals. I sincerely wonder what is going on in the process between the positions of those ministers, who seem to be unanimous in their support for sanctioning more countries, and the introduction of effective sanctions. As you rightly admit, they are merely symbolic. Only Gambia is put on the table as a symbolic dossier. I hope that the mistake that was made last time will not be repeated now and that we will not end up again with symbolic sanctions, perhaps one or two relatively insignificant countries being added to that list. I fear that many countries that are unwilling to cooperate in the readmission of illegal nationals will eventually realise that it will remain symbols and that after 40 to 50 years the EU will not show any decisive action. You are in favour of putting more countries on that list and introducing more sanctions. I suspect that you are expressing the position of the Belgian Government and that you are therefore also expressing that view at that conference. Is that the view of the entire government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u42	That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that this is the view of the entire government. That will be the result of not too easy negotiations in the coalition, of which a number of green and red coalition partners are also included. The file itself is classified according to you and will be followed up at the end of December. It is a pity that things are all going so slowly, while the unwillingness of a number of countries is very clear and has been dragging on for a very long time. Why does all this have to be so frighteningly slow? Why does it take years for a firm decision to be taken at last? After all, in your opinion, all these European Ministers of Migration agree that this is not an effective policy and that we need to impose more sanctions, but these procedures are taking a very long time. That's too bad. We will be submitting follow-up questions on this, but it seems that we will have to wait until the end of this year before we know anything more about this. That's very sad.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u44	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, illegal migration via the so-called Channel Route has been on the rise for several years and reached a sad peak last year when more than 28,000 people reached Britain by that route. To get that phenomenon under control, France and Belgium called in Frontex's assistance at the end of last year. Since early December, the European Agency has been patrolling an aircraft, including over the North Sea. Mr Secretary of State, how do you generally assess Frontex's commitment in this area in recent months? What concrete results did the operation yield? Do you consider a further deployment of Frontex on the ground useful and would you like to scale it up if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u45	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, I myself was a party asking for a Frontex mission on the North Sea coast. We discussed this a while ago, on 28 November 2021, with France, Germany and the Netherlands in Calais, where Frontex sat at the table. From France and Belgium they were asked for a Frontex mission on the North Sea coast. An Opal Coast operation was launched, which I think is important. The European Union has external borders in southern Europe and Eastern Europe, where Frontex must do a decent job. To this end, the European Union is also putting significant resources into Frontex, which I believe is important for the implementation of border controls. Of course, the implementation of border controls must always be monitored, but I do not see the problem of investment in Frontex, on the contrary, which I believe are necessary. However, we also have an external border on our side, namely with Britain. As European taxpayers, we all contribute, and that is why I do not see why Frontex cannot work here too, in cooperation with our police. A mission is therefore being carried out on a plane over Belgium and France, and that is, in my view, a very good thing. Transmigration is, of course, a complex competence, which I share with the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Verlinden, since she is responsible for police cooperation. It is a question of police cooperation on the border region between Great Britain, France and Belgium. I also have contacts with British colleagues, of course, and I stress the importance of these contacts. The British are willing to invest enormously in strengthening security in France and Belgium. I don't see why we shouldn't. We are doing this and must continue to consider the extent to which we can continue to strengthen this cooperation. In this question, I must also point out that I cannot speak too much in turn. That is why I propose that you ask questions about specific police actions by Frontex and therefore also by the British to the competent colleague, Mrs Verlinden.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u46	I also regularly harass your colleague Verlinden on this subject. So don't worry about that. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have heard from you how you assess the outcome of Operation Opal Coast. Are you happy about it? How shall we proceed? You speak of further investment in Frontex and the further deployment of Frontex. However, I would have liked to have just received more specific information on the outcome of the operation and whether you are going to ensure that the 28,000 crossing record is not exceeded in 2021, but is reduced in the coming year. I didn't hear that ambition right here. I suppose it must be the ambition of this government, of you and of your colleague Verlinden. Every crossing is accompanied by an enormous risk and potential loss of people's lives in very difficult situations. Prevention is still better than cure. Healing is important, but prevention would be even better. In this respect, we must, of course, be much better guarded at the European external borders. The European external borders must be closed. Both legally and physically, we must create obstacles to ensure that the transit migrants, which we should call illegal immigrants, do not penetrate into Belgium and therefore the problem cannot arise. As far as British policy is concerned, I hope that with the good contacts that you, Mrs Verlinden and Mr De Croo have, you will also be put on the table that there is a huge intake effect from the fact that they do not work with proper identification documents and that there is a huge black economy in Great Britain. This has a huge suction effect on people in difficult situations, especially here in Belgium. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is a recommendation to put this on the table once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u47	Mr President, Secretary of State, we heard from the media that there was a disagreement about Home Sebrechts in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. If we were properly informed, the former retirement home, which was used until recently for the temporary emergency shelter of Ukrainian refugees, would now also serve to accommodate some two hundred asylum seekers from countries such as Afghanistan, Syria and Eritrea. Moreover, in the long term, there would even be a reception capacity of about 600 people. According to some people, including Molenbeek's Mayor Moureaux, this is contrary to the agreement, which stated that it would be the temporary reception of Ukrainians for a clearly defined period of time. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Is it true that there was an agreement that the former retirement home would be used for the temporary reception of Ukrainian refugees for a clearly defined period of time? Is it true that, possibly unlike an earlier agreement, some 200 asylum seekers are now being received from all over the world? Your spokesperson said: "In the long term, there is a reception capacity of about 600 people possible in Sebrechts. It would be morally unacceptable not to use this capacity." Thus, the quote from Bruzz of 9 April 2022. Can you confirm that? If so, do you consider it moral to justify the breach of any earlier agreement, or do you deny the existence of such an agreement? Do you have plans to use centres located elsewhere in the country which are currently being set up for the reception of Ukrainian refugees as asylum centres for other refugees in the long term or do you exclude such a scenario? Rachid Barghouti, spokesperson of Molenbeek's mayor Moureaux, claims to have sent a letter to the Prime Minister to clarify the situation and to ask for understanding of their situation. Can you tell us what clarifications we are dealing with here? Have you received such a letter yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u48	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the former Home Sebrechts shelter centre in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek was already seen from the outset as a future reception centre for applicants for international protection. I informed the mayor of this in December 2021, already before the war in Ukraine. Indeed, in 2021, that war was not yet discussed for the sake of clarity. I also had Fedasil sign an agreement to set up the building as a shelter. So there has not been any agreement on numbers or profiles at any time. However, I understand that it is never clear to mayors to explain this correctly to the people. I can only say that the first talks date from December 2021. When the Ukraine crisis broke out, the building was first rapidly transformed into a reception structure to provide a solution to the high number of people from Ukraine seeking protection in our country. It has thus happened rather the other way around, i.e. as a reception centre for international protection, after which we found that there is a very large influx of Ukrainians and that we had to temporarily transform the building into a centre for Ukrainians. In the meantime, a temporary emergency shelter structure was opened in Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe, allowing Home Sebrechts to be re-used for which it was originally always intended. I have always told the mayor and anyone who has asked me about this. I hope in this respect that serenity can return there and, above all, that mayors can participate in proper and transparent communication to the citizens. Otherwise, it is understandable that people are worried and do not know what story they are going into, because it is different from what they were promised. In these the first talks took place six months ago and I think it is clear enough by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for a number of important clarifications. I hope that you will be able to communicate this with your coalition partners so that the Mayor of Saint-Jans-Molenbeek, who himself is an advocate of an open border policy, can pass on the right information to its inhabitants. If, indeed, these agreements have been in place since December, there is no agreement that it would only be about Ukrainian refugees. I would like another answer to my fourth question. Are there currently plans to use centres, where there would be an agreement that it would only be a temporary reception of Ukrainian refugees, as asylum centres for refugees from other regions such as Afghanistan, Syria and Eritrea in the long term? Are they there yet? Do you exclude such a scenario in the future? I have not yet received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u50	That is not the issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u51	And do you consider that possible towards the future, or do you exclude it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u52	I repeat, it is anything but the issue. That says clearly enough what I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u53	To CD&V standards that is clear enough. I'll keep following that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, two Serbian girls of about 12 years old and a boy - who may be a brother - about 10 years old were caught trying to break into Flémalle near Liège on Sunday 10 April. There are suspicions of forced crime and trafficking in human beings. After one night in a Liège police cell, the police brought the girls over to the closed center in Holsbeek on Monday morning. The boy was taken to the closed center in Merksplas. According to Minister Van Quickenborne, whom I have already questioned, the reason for this lies in the lack of accessibility of the Voogdij service at night, which means that the police have brought children to closed centres out of frustration. I would have liked to ask this question earlier, together with Mrs Safai, but I had lost sight of the fact that Easter Monday also counts for the submission of questions in Parliament. When exactly were your services first informed of the facts? It has already been established at night, inter alia because of illegal residence. Was there any contact with the DVZ? Was the identity, including the age, known to the DVZ back then? What happened at night at the DVZ? What was the exact moment when it was clear for your services for the first time that they were minors? Was this clear at night or only the next day upon arrival in the closed centres of Holsbeek and Merksplas? If so, when exactly? Were your services then informed of the arrival of young people in Holsbeek and Merksplas? We know from the girls that they were eventually placed at Meza, the new shelter for victims of trafficking in human beings. What happened to the boy? The media and the reply of Minister of Quickenborne contradict each other in that respect. The minister mentioned Fedasil. How exceptional is it that minors end up in a closed centre? Is it still happening that, for example, the local police, takes minors to a closed center?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 19 April you answered a question about three unaccompanied minors who were almost detained in two different closed centres, while the detention of minors in closed centres is a clear violation of children's rights. These children were arrested by the Flémalle police on April 10th. In an earlier reply you stated that the police of Flémalle passed wrong birth dates to the DVZ to enable the movement to the closed centre of Merksplas. On the arrival of the minors at Merksplas, the DVZ would have immediately noticed the error, sent the children back and contacted the Voogdij service. There was no reason to doubt this story initially, but that changed on April 25th. During the city council, the mayor of Flémalle gave a completely different version of the facts. According to her, the local police would have informed the DVZ that they were minors. However, they would still have received instructions from the DVZ to transfer them to the centres of Merksplas and Holsbeek. Holsbeek refused the transfer, Merksplas didn't. These facts would be contained in official police documents and would also be clearly demonstrated by their communication. The Flémalle police would also have submitted a report to the P Committee. So these are two stories that contradict each other directly. That calls for clarification. In view of these developments, I ask you the following questions. Who decided on April 10 that these children should be transferred to closed centres? Was that the DVZ or the Flémalle police? The Flémalle police would have contacted the Voogdij department themselves. Are there any evidence of this, and how did they end up in the closed centres? From what source did you receive the information you communicated to Parliament on 19 April? Are there any official documents that can confirm your statements on 19 April? If so, are you prepared to inform Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u56	Mr President, the Foreign Office received the administrative reports on 10 April at 5:47 p.m. and at 5:59 p.m. In the first instance, the DVZ took a decision on detention because no mention was made of the minority by the police to the DVZ. These were also cases of public order, which are given priority of detention. During the evening and night of April 10 there was only contact between the DVZ and the police via the electronic systems. So there was no reason for the DVZ to assume it was minors. There was one of the police's administrative reports in response to the question 'doubt about minority' no. They couldn't be clearer. As soon as it became clear to the DVZ that they were minors, the detention decision was immediately reviewed. The Foreign Office confirms that the minors were not effectively detained by them at any time because it was fairly clear that they were minors. As regards the detention decision for the boy at Merksplas, the closed center at the dispatching on Monday 11 April e-mailed at 09.14 hours that the police had called them and indicated that the person concerned was a minor. The closed centre of Merksplas informed that no minors are being held in the closed centres. At 10:56 a.m., and one and a half hours later, the center was informed that the permanence had made a new decision and the detention was cancelled. Consequently, the police did not present themselves at the centre with the person concerned. That's the logic itself. As regards the two girls, on 11 April the secretariat of the closed center in Holsbeek received a telephone call from the police in the morning asking if there was room for two minors. Previous communication with the DVZ did not mention the minority. The employees of the closed centre therefore informed the police that no minors are being held in the centre. The police replied that she was mistaken and that the girls were not underage after all, after which they were taken to the center. Upon arrival there it appeared quite clear that they were still minors, on which the centre immediately contacted the department head of the Interceptions/Permanence department. It was decided to take care of the girls and also to release them immediately. The center immediately contacted the Voogdij service and around 14 o'clock the girls were picked up by this service. As far as the contacts between the police and the custody services were concerned that night, you must, of course, address the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. All the information I've provided to you was provided to me by the Foreign Office. I am happy to give them to you in detail, because on the basis of the information I received from my service it appears that they have acted perfectly correctly. Mrs Daems, in support of the answers I give, the necessary documentation is contained in the DVZ files. There are administrative reports received by the DVZ from the police which do not mention the minority. There is the mail traffic between the dispatcher making the allocation to a closed centre and the closed centres concerned. Of course, I cannot physically share with you the notes in the relevant files on telephone communications between these services, the police and the DVZ, given the privacy laws. However, my services are happy to share the necessary information with the P Committee if that question were to be asked. As there were no details to report to the police on the basis of the information communicated to the DVZ, my cabinet was not informed about the detention. After all, the DVZ has done perfectly what is expected of him. It is not the intention of the cabinet to be informed about every dossier, especially when the DVZ is acting properly and does what is expected. Mr Segers, as you know, minors are not being held in closed centres, as minors are being held in open housing units, in FITT homes. More normally, the police must inform both the DVZ and the Voogdij department at the time of the interception of a minor, as the latter is responsible for this person. What happens to the unaccompanied minor, you must, of course, ask the Voogdij department, which is competent for these unaccompanied minor foreigners. I do not, of course, want to say that I have no responsibility in this dossier. If I don't say that, I'm gonna get a reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that the problem lies in the lack of real night-time permanence in the Voogdij department, not only for the action at the time but also in general. After all, when the Voogdij service is called at night, it asks to call back the following morning. It is clear that the problem was not with your services. Because of the inaccessibility of the Voogdij service others have had to improvise and that is very unfortunate. That has led those young people to end up in that cell in the closed-down center. As a result, the normal route has not been followed. This is not a good way to build confidence, certainly not if it turns out that the persons concerned are effectively victims of trafficking in human beings and forced crime. It is therefore very unfortunate that the normal course could not be followed by the course of events. I also have a number of pressing questions about the public prosecutor's performance. I do not understand why they did not conclude that there was a worrying educational situation. This coincidence has led young people to disappear from the radar. Fortunately, Minister Van Quickenborne announced that this permanent service would be improved in the short term. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u58	Mr Secretary of State, two politicians involved tell contradictory stories. That is striking, but apart from that, it is important to find out the precise facts, so that such matters can be avoided in the future. Of course, it proves once again that the Voogdij service suffers from a lack of resources and that this also affects your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u59	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, some time ago, I indicated to you that the Brussels Court of First Instance ruled that the waiting list for the right of admission to the arrival centre was illegal. So I assumed that we were going to correct the shooting and put an end to this practice. However, Vluchtelingenwerk Vlaanderen points out to me that, despite the judgment confirming the illegality of the waiting list to the right of reception organised by Fedasil at the arrival centre and condemning the State and Fedasil for denial of asylum, this waiting list continues to be used for a wide range of international protection applicants who are nevertheless entitled to reception. Until the end of March, an average of 20 requests were referred to the waiting list, although reception places are available, according to the organization. However, the State and its administrations, of which Fedasil is obliged to comply with positive law. Mr Secretary of State, do you confirm the maintenance of the waiting list set up by the arrival centre? Do you intend to take into consideration and comply with the judge's decision considering this illegal waiting list? Which applicants for international protection are on this waiting list? On the basis of what criteria? How long and why should they wait? Why maintain a waiting list if seats are available? Can you tell me how many people on the waiting list were invited and were given a reception place?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u60	Mr President, I will answer both questions, even if Mrs Platteau is not present. Mr. Rigot, the list is still in use. This temporary system will remain in place for as long as necessary. However, it is not yet possible to specify when it can be terminated, given the continuing saturation of the reception network. The system does not concern vulnerable persons or families. It is limited to isolated men who have obtained refugee or subsidiary protection status in another Member State and who have received a Dublin hit in the Eurodac database indicating that they have already applied for international protection in another Member State. The very limited number of places available in the network makes it necessary to set priorities to ensure the reception of vulnerable people and those who are not in the categories mentioned. As soon as reception places are available in sufficient capacity, people on waiting lists are invited to present themselves for reception. Mr Rigot, you have rightly said that there are enormous challenges in terms of housing, whether temporary, structural, etc. Fedasil's network is also quite saturated. Nevertheless, the number of places has increased in recent months. Several municipalities, whether in Flanders, Wallonia or Brussels, have taken the necessary steps. Despite this, the network remains saturated. We are therefore working with a philosophy that allows us to ensure that the most vulnerable are never on the street. By the way, it's not that nothing happens to it when you're on the waiting list. Perhaps I will say that in French, since only Mr. Rigot is present. On May 3, 663 people were on the waiting list. Of these, 409 were subsequently accommodated. So the goal is not to record someone to do nothing afterwards. It is a matter of ensuring that we can follow the most vulnerable and, above all, prevent them from coming to the streets. At the same time, we must create enough reception places, speed up the CGRA procedures, and ensure that those who do not take up their responsibilities at European level take them. Several aspects must be taken into account, and I must not teach you that. In the meantime, we are trying to do what is necessary, even if we realize that this is not the most ideal system. The new Decision, issued on 25 March 2022, takes into account the waiting list system. The action taken on the Decision is currently being examined. It was also appealed against.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, you have said that, and I am well aware that we have been in a very complex situation for a long time. This is a continuing situation. Today, we really need to give a boost. One of the axes on which we must certainly work is the acceleration of this procedure: to strengthen the CGRA, to strengthen the Council of the Litigation, to give ourselves the means to go faster because, of course, it is the race to the scale. We will never be able to create enough reception places if the procedure lasts too long. We'll always be a little late. So we really need to focus on that. That's essential! I also understand and join you on one point: when we have to make the choice, which is terrible, to leave people on the street, we must first take into account the vulnerabilities. It's safe and essential. I'm really counting on you to give me an accelerator. We've been convicted. There's a state of affairs here. There is a rule of law, too. We have a duty and obligation to provide a reception place for all those who are in the conditions and even those who are on the waiting list and are in the conditions. It is therefore necessary to correct the shooting and, in my view, it is by focusing, now, on the acceleration of the procedure, on the control of those who, yes or no, have the right to receive in the network and then looking for and looking for places, if necessary, to meet the needs. I'm really counting on you. I could tell you: "You don't do your job well!" Yes, I think you're doing your job well, but it's not easy and you still have to type on the nail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, during the previous period of government, a hotline of radicalisation was set up for the reception centres. Fedasil's staff also received training to identify signs of radicalisation. The focus was on prevention. Ten full-time equivalents were used when the hotline was set up. Is the hotline still in place? If so, how many reports have it received in recent years? Could you give me some details on that? What happens to the notifications that arrive at the hotline? How many reports were followed up? What's the occupation today? Do ten full-time equivalents still work? How do you evaluate the bestaffin? Are you planning any other initiatives to prevent and combat radicalisation in reception centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u63	Mr Roggeman, the focal point for radicalisation at Fedasil still exists, and rightly so. It regularly provides training for the staff of the reception sector so that they can better detect and report any signs of radicalisation among asylum seekers. The hotline also guarantees the follow-up of any notifications. Since the introduction of the notification procedure in March 2016, i.e. over the past six years, 144 notifications have been made by different reception structures. For more details on the breakdown of the notifications, per year and per center, please submit a written question. All notifications are received by the contact point radicalisation of Fedasil and the expert radicalism and the liaison officer of the integrated police are in contact with the reception structures and are therefore available to the staff, should they have any questions about radicalism in general or about the person identified in particular. The reports are also passed on to the Radicalism cell of the Foreign Office, which then continues to follow up the file. The radicalisation hotline of Fedasil employs a full-time employee who acts as an expert in radicalisation for the care sector. The contact point is not dependent on the Radicalism cell of the Foreign Office, which currently has seven full-time employees, following individual files. The cell's commands are much more extensive than tracking signals, like with Fedasil. The Foreign Affairs Office is responsible for the screening of asylum seekers, in cooperation with the intelligence services and the security services. The plan-R is followed up and is responsible for internal and external information exchange around radicalism and sensitizes all those involved on the subject. In addition, the individual files are followed up. Of course, the prevention, detection and follow-up of signs of radicalisation in my services remains a priority. In addition to the general education on radicalism, the expert on radicalism at Fedasil develops more specific information sessions on certain countries for a better understanding of the cultural and political context of the country or countries. It is very important work that we want to make a priority of. As proof, the Cell Radicalism at DVZ will soon be reinforced with three additional full-time equivalents. It is important that we can quickly detect radicalisation and tackle the phenomenon with rigour. That takes our staff. So I am very pleased that we will also strengthen this service, which does not mean that all services need extra hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u64	We are right to remain vigilant about radicalisation. This also means, of course, that an active prevention policy is needed, with rapid action in the early stages of the acts and signals that have been adopted. It also requires sufficient follow-up. You tell me that you are employing three additional staff, but at the moment the bestaffin is only seven full-time people, whereas the staff framework already covers ten full-time equivalents. De facto, therefore, the commitment of the three staff does not increase, but rather the achievement of the existing framework. For details, please refer to a written question. I would like to do that, but it is a pity that we do not receive answers to written questions until we finally put them orally. Then what is the appropriate method to obtain information from you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u65	That last point of concern should not be raised in committee but in the Conference of Presidents. However, oral questions are not appropriate to obtain figures, which is already contained in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u66	Recently, there have been very many security incidents in the reception centres. Therefore, the law enforcement services should be on the spot on a regular basis. Local police forces are to establish a framework for agreements with the respective reception structures. Such a framework regulates, among other things, the access of police forces to the reception centre. Are there reception centres where local police are not granted access on the basis of an agreement framework today? Which ones are they? Were there any difficulties in the past regarding the access of local police forces to a shelter? How do you view the introduction of a uniform framework of agreements across the country as a guide for all reception centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u67	The police always get access to the shelters when the police consider it necessary. Fedasil says he doesn't know about any trouble with police access. The current framework of agreements between local police and reception centres is already uniform and gives access to all the respective reception centres in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u68	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, I have just asked you a written question about the security incidents in the reception centres. The results made me fall off my chair. For the whole year 2021, the total is 1,281 incidents. That's over three a day. These include daily fighting, weekly cases of sexual violence, thefts and threats. Among the victims are residents and employees of Fedasil. In fact, I find that unheard of. Apparently, we cannot guarantee the safety of our own people enough today. The reception of people fleeing war is quite right, but if they end up in a shelter where once again the law of the strongest applies, that is unheard of. My indignation is not reduced by the policy of sanctions. That's kind of funny. Of the 1,281 incidents in 2021, no incident gave rise to the most severe sanction measure, namely the definitive exclusion from the centre. Even in the worst cases with the least mitigating circumstances, there is no risk of decisively punishing. I don't understand. What do we see? There is the formal warning: foei, fighting is not allowed here; no more do, that is naughty! There is also the temporary exclusion of the allowance. For the facts that are listed here, that is ludicrous. As a result of an assault attempt, will one withdraw the victim's allowance? That is simply weak?v Another popular sanction measure is the temporary transfer to another center. There we can simply repeat the same facts. I think that is a policy of sanctions at kindergarten level. It would be hilarious if it weren't so bad. For the aggressive in question, this is the first encounter with the Belgian system. And then we startled that the figures are increasing year after year. I find that incomprehensible. I have only one question: what will you do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u70	Mr Roggeman, there is an effective increase in the number of incidents detected in the reception centres. It's important that we follow that firm lead. That must and will be the case. Residents and staff have the right to a safe living and working environment. Fedasil and his reception partners have been working on this for a long time. They want to work towards a broader view of incidents, which are no longer seen as an isolated phenomenon or as a temporary situation, which needs to be resolved. There is a series of actions and initiatives which form part of a much broader plan, with a strong focus on all prevention measures in the first instance. These include a very clear explanation of internal rules and sanctions, an increase in understanding of group phenomena among staff, the implementation of various recommendations made by the prevention adviser, the provision of quality care with appropriate control mechanisms and the use of intercultural mediators. Prevention alone is not enough. We must also have the courage to act stronger if we need to. That is why we are looking at sanctions policy and measures against many-timers. By the way, Fedasil is increasingly acting decisively in the event of incidents. In 2021, Fedasil took no less than 1,658 sanctions against residents in shelters, more than twice as many in 2017. Then there were 779. The exclusion from the reception network, the strictest possible disciplinary measure Fedasil can take, was also applied more frequently in 2021 than before. In this way, Fedasil already makes it clear to the residents that the rules must be respected. We will see to it that this philosophy is extended over the coming years. Besides, it is not a story of Fedasil alone. It must not stop at an internal penalty or an exclusion. Whether one is an asylum seeker or not, when such facts are committed, the police and the judiciary should always act. In addition to our preventive measures and the increasingly stringent sanctions by Fedasil, the police and the judiciary must also be involved and take the necessary measures. A number of initiatives have already been taken with a view to an integrated approach to incidents, so that everyone who is due in Belgium, whether they arrive at an asylum centre or not, immediately realizes that if they do things wrong here, they will immediately take decisive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u71	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You say that we are already much stricter than in the past and that the number of sanctions has doubled. Can I tell you that the number of incidents has doubled, too? We went from 554 incidents in 2017 to 1,281 in 2021. If one sees the same increase in the number of sanctions, this is not a tightening up, but simply the same ratio that is being pushed through. You say that the most severe sanction, the final exclusion, is applied more often than before. I think that is a harsh statement, because it does not correspond at all to your answer to my written question on this matter. Do you know how many times that sentence was applied in 2021? In 2021 it was applied 0 times, in 2020 and in 2019 once. Mr Secretary of State, since when is zero much more common than one? Even temporary exclusion is not applied more frequently than in the past. In 2021, we are at 62 sanctions of temporary exclusion compared to 181 in 2020. So there's no rise at all. On the contrary, that approach is still weakening. Today, you declare that you are in favour of a tightening of sanctions policy. I'll write that down. That's a bright spot in your answer. The sanctions should be more effective. We must act more decisively. Blame or warning isn't gonna get away with it. So you will find a partner in us to change that policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic782x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament 55027346C) by Mrs Platteau and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Debates of the European Parliament 55027349C) by Mr Rigot, (Doc. 55027582C) by Mr Roggeman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Question No 55, by Mrs Daems: 55027454C, 55027455C, 55027456C and 55027458C by Mr Roggeman, 55027478C) by Mr Rogkeman, (Doc. 55027503C) by Mrs Platteau and others, (Doc. Question No 55, by Mr Van Langenhove: 55027534C and 55027535C Question No 55, by Mrs Platteau, Question No 55, by Mrs Platteau Question No 55, by Mr Roggeman: 55027584C, 55027609C and 55027611C by Mr Van Langenhove, 55027623C, 55027624C and 55027626C by Mr Moutquin, 55027633C and 55027635C by Mr Vandenput, Question No Question No 55, by Mrs Daems and Question No 55, by Mrs Daems Mr Francken's 55027691C and 55027693C were postponed.
