ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, six years ago our country signed a historic agreement with Morocco for more cooperation on return. That was an exceptional event at the time. The agreement also included the electronic data exchange of personal data and fingerprints. Cooperation on return was one of the essential aspects of the agreement. It was also worked on for a long time behind the scenes. We are now six years away, but unfortunately the return to Morocco has almost stopped. The situation is similar for the return to other Maghreb countries such as Tunisia and Algeria. Of course, we've had the corona crisis, with all the complications of that. That crisis seems to have been over for several months, so I have some questions for you. When are you planning to resume a full return policy for the Maghreb countries? Do you envisage concrete actions to promote return and re-establish diplomatic relations? Will you make a stronger effort to speed up the return of illegal detainees after their punishment and possibly during their punishment, as this has also completely dried up over the past two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u2	Mr Roggeman, the covid crisis has indeed been a terrible period in many areas, including the measures that have affected our services. Fortunately, in the meantime, many of these measures are almost over, and some are completely behind us. Only the return policy remains difficult because of a number of covid obstacles to forced return. There are many countries of origin, including the Maghreb, which apply very strict entry conditions, for example: have a negative PCR test, sometimes in combination with a vaccination certificate. Persons refusing the test, who have not been vaccinated, or who do not wish to submit their vaccination certificate, cannot therefore be removed. In addition, if escort removal is required, the escorts are at risk of quarantine after arrival in the country of destination. In short, it is only when the countries of destination are not just the Maghreb countries that those conditions are lifted and aviation has been fully restored that there is a return in terms of disposal, as for corona, at least as far as conditions are concerned. In relation to the circumstances, there are good developments, but as for the covid crisis, the situation can be called difficult if one looks at them objectively. Pending the removal of the corona barriers, or the possibility of a forced reduction of a PCR test, the focus shall be on convincing the parties concerned to undergo the test, as well as on consultations between the Member States and the countries of origin to ensure that the requirements for forced return are dropped. A number of the restrictions have recently disappeared in a number of European countries. This makes it more convenient, for example, for the implementation of the Dublin Agreements, which have also been under pressure in recent years because of intra-European restrictions on entry. This now means that a number of countries, and not the least, will remove the restrictions, which, fortunately, will enable us to make substantial use of Dublin expulsions. My services and I are also trying to keep migration in bilateral relations with the Maghreb countries high on the agenda, with regular, important bilateral meetings with one of the regions in the world that we are most concerned with in terms of return. The Foreign Affairs Office is in constant contact with the embassies and the Foreign Affairs Office to keep the relations as effective as possible and to seize every opportunity to address our needs. Two weeks ago I was in New York, where I had several bilateral contacts with many colleagues, including some official and some unofficial contacts in the margins of the so-called Global Compact for Migration. Your party probably knows that very well. A safe and dignified return is one of the five Belgian priorities. Belgium had to go there with an action plan. The regions supported this action plan, otherwise there would have been no action plan. It integrates a number of aspects of the Global Compact. It was very important that one of the five points of the action plan was the return. That must, of course, be a worthy return. Return is an essential part of migration. We also maintain close contacts with the Maghreb countries. In the coming months, a number of missions will be on the agenda of the Secretary of State, including Morocco. So that's where they're gonna bet on it. Just because we are getting out of the corona crisis, this is the right time to push through, alongside the many bilateral contacts that have already been there. The commitment to return detained foreigners to illegal residence has only increased. We have focused on staff from the Foreign Affairs Office who are working in the prisons themselves, because the staff there has a direct impact. A lot of returns figures have been impacted by corona. However, the number of detained foreigners has remained fairly stable, just because of the extra effort. I also hope that these additional efforts after COVID, including those of countries that are still struggling today, will have an additional impact. You should know the numbers. The 1,984 forced removals involved 1,299 detainees. The focus is on everyone who is or was in prison. They must be returned as a matter of priority. We have worked hard on this in our staffing issues. A final aspect concerns the MOU, which is sometimes discussed. It may not have been your question, but I personally believe that the MOU you call historical has been a historically missed opportunity. We all know the context of the MOU signed with Morocco. After the attacks there was a willingness from Morocco to cooperate around the MOU. What did that mean? For a year, therefore, a limited time, people were willing to do identification missions. There was no willingness on forced return and it was not unlimited in time either. For a year they wanted to participate in the identification. That was a step. However, I believe that we should have been able to achieve more during that period. In any case, I hope that under pressure from the European Union and with levers in a positive and negative sense, we will be able to respond to countries, not only in the Maghreb. It should not be the case that a particular national or geopolitical context has an impact on something that is actually the responsibility of each country: the taking back of its own nationals when they are told that they have no business in our country and have illegally arrived. However, that is a discussion for later. In any case, contacts with Morocco are maintained and there are still interesting points on the agenda with our colleagues from the Maghreb countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u3	When you took office as Secretary of State, that was almost two years ago, but you may not be able to reach that cape. You said you would do better than your predecessors. That was a beautiful ambition, which you certainly did not put under any chairs or benches either. The corona crisis was already going on, we are now two years ahead and we find that it is not better at all. You have a long list of actions, but we can only interpret them as a to-do list for your successor, hoping that it can build on the foundations that have been there for a while. Of course, you are always dependent on cooperation with third countries, and that is not obvious. But also the points where our country itself could take the initiative, for example for the forced PCR test, have been investigated for months. That case is getting out of hand but it's not realizing it. I hope that your successor, whoever he or she may be, will be able to continue working on that important shipyard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, since 2019 the single permit exists. This allows non-EU citizens to legally work and reside in our country. Employers may apply for the permit and the worker may not be in Belgium during the procedure. The granting of the licence involves both regional and federal authorities. Work permits are granted by the region's residents, while residence permits are a competence of the DVZ. It is often said that this single permit is a win-win situation, because it is a legal migration channel for filling in bottleneck professions. However, midfield organisations point out that the single permit can also open the door to serious cases of exploitation. A few weeks ago, migrant workers in De Standaard testified about poor treatment by their employer, unpaid wages, poor living conditions and even blackmail. That newspaper article was published following the publication of an academic study on the single permit in practice, conducted by the VUB at the request of 11.11.11, ACV, FAIRWORK Belgium and ORBIT vzw. According to the researchers, an important explanation of the abuses would be the dependency relationship created by the single permit. It is the employers who can initiate and extend the procedure. If an employee is dismissed, he or she has 90 days to find a new employer, otherwise the residence permit will be lost. Workers are also highly dependent on employers for information on labour rights and on access to trade unions and social security. The study concluded that worker dependency should be reduced and the researchers made some recommendations for this. The residence permit should be valid for more than one year, so that employees are not constantly insecure as to whether or not to renew it by the employer. As in Finland, workers who have complained against employers for exploitation should be given a residence card of one year, giving the employee time to find a suitable job. My questions are about the measures that the federal government can take to combat those documented cases of exploitation. In your view, what better way to implement the Single Authorisation Directive than to combat exploitation? What recommendations of the study will you or your successor make? Do you think the licence should be valid for more than a year to prevent exploitation? Do you want to work on a one-year residence permit for workers who have filed complaints against employers for exploitation? To what extent will the European Commission's proposal for the reform of the Single Authorisation Directive reduce the exploitation of migrant workers? While we are meeting here, I would like to ask you another question. Perhaps this is the last meeting with you in your office as Secretary of State. On 22 June there was another session with oral questions, but we do not know whether you will be there or your successor. Can you tell us who will be the new Secretary of State or when we will find out? [[hirarity]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u5	I think that last question is the strongest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u6	Mrs Platteau, I shall begin by answering your question. As you know, the European Commission has recently formulated a proposal on legal migration, including a legislative pillar that involves a revision of the single-mit directive. The proposal also contains some new provisions to limit the employee's dependence on the employer. Of course, it is also my priority to prevent and combat abuse and exploitation, so I will be constructive when discussing these articles in the European context. My employees recently sat with the researchers and the organisations that financed the study of the VUB. This study has convinced me even more of the importance of continuing to improve the quality of the single permit. Since several recommendations do not just refer to my powers, this also seems to me to be an interesting theme for the next Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration, which is, moreover, currently being prepared. I have always said that I also like to put the issue of work on the agenda, in the hope that all parties will cooperate constructively. As I said, the study contains several interesting recommendations, not all of which relate to my powers. For example, a compulsory integration course for migrant workers at the employer's expense, as well as conditions and a guarantee of decent housing. In my view, these are very interesting slopes, which certainly need to be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. With regard to the recommendations relating to my powers, whether exclusive or not, I note the proposal to require the employer to pay the costs of the application, the facilitation of the transfer of the single permit to a new employer and the need for more accessible and clearer information on the rights of the employee. The duration of the single permit shall be the duration of the admission to work granted by the Regions and the German-speaking Community. The regional government grants the duration of admission to work on the basis of the contract of employment with the employer. Certain regions already grant employment permits of two or three years for specific categories. In such cases, a single licence shall be issued for the same duration. In my view, a generalised longer duration of the single permit is not a solution to the employee's dependency on the employer. A sustainable solution seems to me to be the European Commission's proposal to allow the worker concerned a period of three months after dismissal, during which he can seek a new job. I certainly agree with a procedure in which my services can also apply such aspects. Several aspects of the European Commission's proposal strengthen the rights of the single permit and want to combat exploitation. They propose to introduce a period of three months after dismissal during which a new job can be sought, to require Member States to develop policies to prevent employers' infringements, with sanctions attached to them, or to ensure access of inspection services to the workplace and to ensure that complaints can be lodged. With regard to these aspects, it is often asked what rights can be given to the migrant. However, sometimes too little attention is given to how we can compete with the crooked employers who exploit people, which is at least as important. There will always be people who are susceptible to malicious employers. We need to be at least as strict there first. Whether I come back is a particularly interesting question, which I cannot yet answer. I note, however, that you will miss me a little, since you are asking the question. At least that's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u7	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. If that interpretation is correct, let me put it in the middle. I have heard many things that please me, including that you want to see how we can improve the system and reduce the dependency relationship. It is also good to put labour migration at the centre of the IMC and to exchange it with all relevant authorities. Housing is also an important issue to look at. As far as the crooked employers are concerned, there must first be sufficient social inspection. If there are complaints, we must ensure that these employers are known and that they do not bring victims back here through the single permit. That is an important point of attention. It is also good to sit around the table with the civil society organisations involved, who know the practice very well, to find out how the system can be improved. I hear you've already done this, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u8	Mr President, I would like to add something, since it may be the last time I come to committee. I'm taking the liberty of saying something about the IMC on that basis. I address you, Mrs Platteau, but it is actually an appeal to the whole House. There are a lot of opportunities to work out labour migration in a thoughtful way and to think about ways to get people who are legally staying here to work as much as possible. I know the differences of opinion that exist in Parliament, which you also know, about putting other aspects of people to work. I'm obviously talking about people without papers, people in illegal residence. We have had this discussion so many times that my greatest fear is, I am asking for confidence here in the hope that such an important yard will be ruined by differences of opinion, which exist and may be so dominant in the debate that we leave a lot of existing opportunities behind. We have put asylum seekers to work. We have given them the opportunity to develop, because the government considers it important to give people the chance to strengthen themselves as a person instead of sitting around for a year. Those are very nice trajectories. We also need to look at how we can give other people who are legally resident here such opportunities and how we can work on legal migration. However, if we open the discussion in the IMC to such sensitive issues, I fear that we will not get anywhere. I am not just addressing you, but you have asked me the question. I therefore take advantage of your question to send a message to the whole of Parliament. Since it might be the last time, I couldn't resist making that point again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, in my question I did not refer at all to people without papers. From our group, we have drawn attention to this in the past. You yourself say that through labour migration we will create channels for bottlenecks in the professions, but that attention must be paid to housing and integration. At the same time, there is a very large group of people in our society working with crooked employers, often in black, without control. When we hear those stories, our society apparently tolerates them. To those people, who have sometimes worked here for decades, we now say that they have to go back abroad first to be eligible for a single permit, for example. We consider that to be a fairly absurd presentation of things. I fully agree with the activation measures for all people, including those with a migration background. Let there be no doubt about that. We know that asylum seekers now have much more opportunities to get to work faster and have more opportunities to develop. All these things evolve in a positive sense, but our vision is clearly different for people without papers. So let us discuss this in this House, in this Parliament. We need to have that debate here. So I'm going to interpret your call slightly differently. The next Secretary of State will certainly be confronted with this problem, especially as there is a strong support in society for defending people without papers, as demonstrated by the Citizens' Initiative In My Name, which has collected a lot of signatures. It is certainly a dossier that will not disappear so quickly, not even under the next Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u10	In December 2018, the Klein Kasteelje was renamed the registration centre for applicants for international protection. The Klein Kasteelje was seen as a temporary solution pending the opening of the final registration centre on the site of the Military Hospital in Neder-over-Heembeek. Now, more than four years later, however, the Klein Kastiltskin is still used as a registration centre. I visited there a while ago. I have seen how it works and I have been able to identify the flawed infrastructure with my own eyes. Your 2020 policy paper said that the structure and location of the Klein Kastiltje are not optimal and that the registration centre would move into a more adapted place in the future. This would, among other things, provide a solution for the long queues that now often appear on the Klein Kastiltje. It would also improve the conditions for applicants and minimise the impact on neighbourhood residents. My questions are very clear. Are there still plans to move the registration center to Lower-over-Heembeek? Why do these plans still exist or why are they no longer there? Will the registration centre still be able to move during the current legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, the concept of a general registration centre for applicants for international protection has an absolute added value. All the services involved are there together in order to ensure that the asylum procedure is launched quickly, efficiently and humanely. As I explained in my policy paper of 2020, the structure and location of the Klein Kastiltje are absolutely not optimal to be used as such a registration centre. It's too small and the structure hasn't been adjusted. This has been clear in recent years and became clear once again when there was a great deal of pressure on the reception network. There is no room for flexibility in registration and reception capacity. Staff must also work there under unpleasant and inappropriate conditions. That is why I stick to the plan to move the registration centre to a more adapted place in the future to improve conditions, both for the applicants and for the staff and also for the residents of the neighbourhood. Unfortunately, I do not decide on the specific location of the future registration centre alone. The location first foreseen in Lower-Over-Heembeek and owned by the Government of the Buildings has been given a different destination. Nor did the Brussels Region issue the necessary permits. Another suitable location was sought and also found by the Government of the Buildings, in Schaerbeek. The Regie will now take the necessary steps to further realise the project, of course in close cooperation with my services and with the local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u12	Thank you for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, in 2021, the federal Ombudsman opened no less than 251 files on applications for student visas. The complaints are often about the long duration of processing the application. Applications submitted in June or July were sometimes answered only in December. At that point, the student has already missed a full semester. The long duration is an old very. In 2018, the Federal Ombudsman already made recommendations to repay the administrative contribution, where the applicant submitted the application at least 90 days before the deadline for registration and the DVZ did not reply in time. That recommendation has not yet been implemented. The Federal Ombudsman also points out that wrong decisions are often taken, which do not take into account updates in the file. The reason for this would be that the DVZ cannot take note of the large number of e-mails received daily. In the Federal Ombudsman's view, refusals due to a lack of credibility of the study path are not sufficiently and stereotyped. According to the DVZ, this lack of justification is a measure to deal with the large number of cases within the time limit. The Council for Foreign Affairs has already destroyed several decisions for lack of justification. Mr Secretary of State, have you taken note of the findings and recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman? Will the 2018 Recommendation on the reimbursement of the administrative contribution in the event of a late decision still be followed? How will you ensure that refusals are better motivated by the DVZ? What other measures will you take to improve the treatment of applications for student visas?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u14	Mrs Platteau, I have indeed taken note of the annual report of the federal ombudsmen. My associates will sit with them to discuss their findings and recommendations in detail. In fact, in the annual report, the federal ombudsmen point to the increasing number of applications for a student residence. We want to make legal migration possible and give students who meet the legal conditions within the shortest possible period of time an answer to their question. We note, however, that the increasing number of applications also includes more and more files that do not meet the conditions. In some cases there are also indications of abuse. It is therefore very time-consuming for my services to deal with the ever increasing number of applications in good time, with due attention to possible abuses. I would therefore like to express my confidence in my services and emphasise that they are very committed to dealing with third country students' applications as soon as possible. My law on student residence was adopted last year as the law of July 11, 2021. Prior to this legislative amendment, there was no statutory treatment period for applications for a student residence. The Law of 11 July 2021 introduced a statutory treatment period of 90 days. Although the law came into force after the applications for the 2021-2022 academic year, I asked my services to respect that legal deadline immediately. In view of the large number of applications, priority was given to applications for legal treatment, namely applications for student residence by students enrolled in public higher education institutions. The law does not provide for sanctions for exceeding the treatment period. Nowhere in the law is provision made for a fee to be reimbursed if the application is not dealt with in good time. The decision of the Department of Foreign Affairs is always justified in law and in fact. The federal ombudsmen rightly point to the use of stereotypes. My services are aware of the importance of ensuring that the legal justification is duly substantiated by the factual justification. They will therefore pay particular attention to this. As has been said, the Foreign Affairs Office faces an increasing number of applications for student visas each year, the vast majority of which are based on Cameroonian nationals. In 2018, 11,038 student visas were applied for by third country nationals. In 2019, there were 12,537. In 2021, there were 13,957. The year 2020 is not representative, because of the covid crisis, but when we look at the top five student applications for 2021, we see that Cameroon's applications stand out. Of the 13,957 applications, 3,382 were submitted by Cameroonians. 24 per cent of all applications for a student residence come from one country, namely Cameroon. I also give figures for some other countries: 1,157 of the applications came from China, 1,651 from Morocco. Most other countries have much lower figures. The challenge is that we should deal with applications within 90 days, with due attention to possible abuses. I would stress that students must also take into account a possible 90-day period of treatment and submit their applications in good time. We have developed a number of issues around student visas, such as the search year for students. We must give students who want to study effectively and develop their lives that opportunity, but the problem of visa fraud in Cameroon has existed for a long time. If you type these search terms on Gopress, then the oldest articles are more than ten years old. So that problem has existed for a very long time. It will be very difficult to work on a solid student migration policy when there are huge abuses in certain countries. That's what melts the base of support. We must therefore continue to monitor abuses. The processing of applications sometimes takes a long time, but the services do so for a reason. They do this not to bully or tease the applicants, but simply because there are a lot of problems in a particular country that we have to watch over. We have already taken a number of measures in this area. These are necessary, because student migration should not be abused for purposes other than to come and study here. Those who do, in fact, create the image of all the other students who do come here to study, that the average student who comes to Belgium does so for other reasons, which is not the case. That is why we must tackle the abuses very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the interesting answer and the figures you gave. There is an increase in the number of applications. You say that there was previously no legal period for treatment. Now that deadline of 90 days is legally established. So I will certainly follow up on whether that deadline is respected. It is perhaps a pity that no sanction has been set if the deadline is exceeded, for example the refund of the fee. That would be a stick behind the door to respect the deadline. I will certainly continue to follow the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I was asking you a few weeks ago about the waiting list for the Dublin IPRs. On that occasion, you explained to me that it would remain in place for as long as necessary, without setting a date, and indicating that the situation on the network required you to take these measures. Meanwhile, thousands of unilateral applications have been filed in the labour courts, dozens of convictions against Fedasil. This is an important burden for our courts and tribunals. Again last week, this waiting list system was pointed out at a press conference organized jointly by the Association of Magistrates' Unions, AVOCATS.BE, the League of Human Rights, ICRÉ, Médecins du Monde and SAAMO Bruxelles. It is a situation that persists in practice, with today 150 men standing in front of the arrival centre who do not enjoy a place when they are entitled to it. Secretary of State, I can hear that the network is saturated. But can you tell me what concrete steps you are taking to put an end to this waiting list for which Fedasil and therefore the state is condemned? Do you confirm that isolated "Dublin" men who are integrated into the network are so because of their vulnerability and that others are not? I understand that there would be a system whereby those who have filed a unilateral application before the Labour Court would be invited to appear at the arrival centre for one place while the others would not. How does this waiting list actually work since a strict encoding has obviously not been put in place? What is the future of those who are not going to apply unilaterally to the Labour Court? Within what time can they hope to be called, as long as they are?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, on 25 May, the labour law banks in the press responded to your reception policy. That reaction wasn't very tender. For a few months, many asylum seekers have not been systematically received after their registration. They are all people with a backpack: refugees before the war in Yemen, for the famine in Somalia, for the Taliban in Afghanistan and for apartheid and occupation in Palestine. Once arrived in Belgium they often wait for the street today. That's why these people are going to court to sue the illegality of the situation. This year we are talking about more than 1,000 cases, 90% of which are won by the prosecutor. This creates a lot of additional pressure on the legal system. That's why the labour court blames you for your policy shifting the burden on the courts. It is not only asylum seekers and justice who suffer from this situation, but also civil society. They still work for days to try to guide people as best they can once they are sent back to the streets. This shows an absurd obstacle course: you refuse to accept asylum seekers and once on the streets they are accompanied by civil society organisations to lawyers, who in turn have to make a lot of effort to fight a case that they almost always win. We are always days or weeks and a lot of unnecessary work. This situation also results in the return of queues and priority rules to the Klein Kastiltje. Previously, you had put people who were covered by the Dublin Regulation at the very bottom of the list of priorities, and now we hear from the field that new rules have been drawn up for granting access to the Little Castle. That access should be a right. Several NGOs and lawyers have already issued multiple convictions for this policy, but so far little has changed and the right to asylum has been regularly violated. Until this right can be enforced, the Belgian State will have to continue to pay periodic penalty payments. What is this government doing to meet its reception obligations? What, according to these plans, is the end date on which this situation will be resolved? What rules are in force today in the selection of the Klein Kastiltje? How much have the Belgian authorities and Fedasil already had to put down in periodic penalty payments? We have recently heard from good sources that two reception centres will be closed down. Is that right? If so, which reception centres are they talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u18	Colleagues, as you know, the waiting list has its origin in the lack of necessary reception places and in the fact that many asylum seekers also arrive at our home. Steps continue to be taken, on the side of Fedasil, to identify potential accommodation sites, and to find reception places. At the same time, you also need enough staff to be able to do this job. We'll do it, Mr. Rigot. We have invested in the number of personnel at the CGRA level. In the weeks and months ahead, we will continue to push for enough staff. Indeed, opening places is one thing, but ensuring that the process goes fast enough to be able to provide a quick response to people and to get them out of the reception centre is another thing, also important. Isolated men, who have either a Dublin or a protection status in another Member State, may register on the waiting list. I can confirm that a vulnerable man will be welcomed by Fedasil. For example, if the person has medical problems, that will be the case. Persons who can register on this waiting list receive a document with information. Persons waiting for an invitation reside at a private address, e.g. with friends or family. Homeless people can go to reception facilities. If the persons elect to live somewhere, the Office of Foreigners and Fedasil may have the address via the waiting register. In other cases, the information is not available. It is correct that most of the persons on the waiting list invited were in compliance with orders made on a unilateral request, with periodic penalty payments. This is a large number of guests, so there is not much room for Fedasil to invite others. It is not possible to give an average time for the invitation outside of the sentences by a labour court. Mrs Daems and Mr Francken, you have asked me about the convictions and the periodic penalty payments that Fedasil has to pay. As you know, Fedasil and the Belgian State were sentenced in November by the Court of First Instance for not registering asylum applications and not receiving asylum seekers. Following the judgment of the court of first instance, Fedasil was already ordered to pay a penalty payment of EUR 75,000. However, nothing has yet been paid. Following a second ruling by this court at the end of March of this year, no penalty payment has yet been claimed. By the way, Fedasil brought an action against the latter decision to defend the waiting list system in respect of the court. I want to say a little more about that, because I find it so interesting. Mr Roggeman, I have received a question from Mr Francken which I found very interesting. Mr Francken talked about the convictions, hundreds at a time, and about a system in which people arriving here have applied for asylum in another country. When the reception system comes under pressure, and so we have to set priorities, we expect them to understand that we give priority to people who have no other care. I remember that the same Theo Francken, a year ago, did not mention that Mrs Maggie De Block wanted to refuse shelter for the so-called Dubliners. She was then flagged back by the judge, because that's not supposed to happen. According to Mr Francken, it would be possible by now. We'd be right. According to him, we should appeal, because when the reception network is so under pressure, it is logical that the government should choose to give priority care to people who do not have shelter in another European country. We are now a few months later and, like the Marrakesh Pact, I suddenly read that your party believes that it is hallucinating that we are appealing against those rulings, because we have indeed appealed. Your party finds it all of a sudden hallucinating that we dare to appeal against a ruling, because we believe that, if the reception network is under pressure with more than 30,000 places, people registered in Italy, Slovenia, Germany, Austria, and entitled to bed, bath and bread, cannot be received by our country as a matter of priority. In our view, care should be given priority to people who are not registered or vulnerable. I'm always learning, of course. The parties also have the right to change their opinion, but I think I can understand that this is the position of your party. I just think it is important, at a time when our reception network is under pressure, to pursue a well-thought-out policy. I am happy to report to this committee that more than 100 recognised refugees are seeking reception in Belgium every month. So we are going to apply for asylum in another country in Europe. I'm not just talking about Greece. The status of international protection is given. Then people think: I want to go to Belgium, and they are asking for asylum again. I think that's why the system is under pressure. I believe that Europe must provide other solutions in this area and restore the system so that it works as it should. As long as that has not happened and my network is under pressure, it seems logical to me that the choice should be made to give priority places to women and children, to people who have not received shelter anywhere. That's what the system's supposed to be. Mrs Daems, you have asked another question about reception centres that may close. It could be. I can only tell you that there is no way to get rid of private partners' shelters. Perhaps this can be done in another political system that certain political parties have in mind, but in our country it is the case that when a private partner decides not to make his property available for shelter, the government cannot do anything about it. I think that is a good state, but opinions may differ. In addition to the reception centres that close, others were opened and there are also plans. Yes, more shelter is provided. Yeah, centers are closing. I understand the question that comes from your group, but that is a different view on how to develop a society.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You recalled the origin of this waiting list, namely the saturation of the network that has been going on for more than two years. Of course, additional resources have been allocated, not to mention the budgetary adjustments that you have recalled. Recruitments are also under way. That must happen. Instead of seeing people on the street, for lack of room to welcome them, I would like the procedure to speed up. It's humanly desirable. Otherwise, if we extend it and continue to have to open centres, the scallop race will become permanent. We agree that we can't do it. What are the average lengths of proceedings compared to the situation six months ago or one year ago? Have they been accelerated and will they be speeded up in the coming months? Do you have prospects for September and October? Will we see the end of the tunnel at that time? It is necessary to know how long we will be able to achieve – all things being equal elsewhere – a balance, in order to respond to all requests for reception, which arise from fundamental rights. It's important. Today, we see that certain rights are not guaranteed, that places are missing, that people are on the street. You have mentioned – and I can hear – the need to protect the most vulnerable. Let us not forget, however, that people who may not be so for the time being will become so by staying outside. What message will we send to them to accompany, assist and support them? And then I go back to the saturation of the courts. As we do not succeed, the interested ones will turn to them. If we are condemned, we will take care of them. Such a choice implies a financial cost to justice: the clerks and the magistrates, who wonder what they come to do in the labour courts in which they do not feel they are filling their jobs, while they could devote themselves to other matters that are eminently essential to our citizens, because they must be the receptacle of complaints – which do not constitute disputes, but rather reflect problems of ability to respond to these legitimate demands. Whether by you or by someone else, I want proof to confirm that we will be able to see the end of the tunnel for everyone: for the staff, for your teams and, certainly above all, for all those who have legitimately submitted a request for accompaniment, assistance and reception.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u20	Last week, the week between Ascension and Pentecost, we saw a typical example of how distressing the situation can be at the Little Castle. On Monday, about 70 men were denied access to the Little Castle; they couldn't even make a request. Tuesday 30 people were sent back to the streets, Wednesday 70, Thursday 15, and Friday there was again no shelter available. No day of that week was the right to asylum respected. The days on which the right to asylum in Belgium was respected this year are counted on the fingers of a few hands. There are people who, after submitting a request, have to sleep on the street for weeks. As a result, they must engage in talks with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) without the necessary guidance. No provision of shelter has become a de facto part of the system nowadays. I therefore wonder, Mr Secretary of State, whether you understand the seriousness of the situation. It should be clear: for us it really cannot go on like this. My question is whether it is true that two reception centres will be closed was intended as an informative rather than an ideological question. In that connection, I would have liked to know whether you could tell us exactly which centres they are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u21	Mr President, Secretary of State, on June 30, 2022, the open and integrated pre-reception centre for MENA in transit carried and financed by MSF will close its doors. It is a pilot project with a deadline of 30 June 2022. This project has provided accommodation for approximately 250 unaccompanied foreign minors and continues to host them every day. It is a safe place where the young people concerned can rest and have access to different services, and it is important, without having to report. The closure of this housing structure for MENA will mean that young people will find themselves without suitable accommodation solutions in Brussels. Hundreds of them will therefore be at the mercy of the dangers of the street without any prospect. The project identified specific medical needs to be addressed inherent in the country of origin (malarialism) or migration path (repeated fastings leading to major health and health problems). Trauma management needs have also been identified. It is therefore a vital project for these young people who are so vulnerable. Mr. Secretary of State, are you aware of this project? What is your analysis of this one? Knowing that MSF will not continue to do so until June 30th, do you envisage that it can be carried by Fedasil or other Fedasil partners? What actions are you planning to undertake?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u22	Mr President, Mr Mahdi, I would have been delighted to take part in other debates which you have launched and which are perhaps the last debates in this committee. Perhaps we will have the opportunity, in your next duties, to re-debate this and other subjects. First of all, I would like to add my colleague Mr Rigot's questions about this magnificent project which has been carried out by MSF. I also stress the questions that have been put to you, but in general, in particular by discussing with MSF but above all thanks to the numerous hearings that have been held on the question of MENA in this committee, it has become clear that there is a certain vagueness about the number of MENA in Belgium or rather a rather worrying uncertainty. The Tutelles Department estimates the total number of MENA on the street and in structures at 600 or 700. However, it is clear that this figure is largely underestimated. SOS Youth, for example, after a six-month campaign, had counted 475 MENA off conventional radars. However, as a reminder, whatever the migration route or the status of a child, his or her best interests must be paramount. He has the right to be cared for, to have housing, to have a shelter, to be rescued and to have decent living conditions. In order to ensure these rights and to create a link between the street and possible demands for international protection, an almost non-existent articulation at this stage, as well as to determine more precisely the extent of this problem, it is essential to know the number of MENA living in this shadow zone. Secretary of State, would you be inclined - or the person who will succeed you - to commission a study on the estimated number of MENA in error? When could this initiative be launched? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u23	Colleagues, you are absolutely right when you say that a significant number of MENA are under radar and avoid any contact with official bodies. A study to estimate the number of minors involved is not planned at the moment; but it is of course important that my services and I have good contacts with the actors on the ground to exchange on this subject. We have already seen the actors on the ground on several occasions. They are important to us in the migration chain, especially as far as MENA are concerned. All zero-line workers estimate approximately the number of minors they meet. It is therefore useful to compare these figures. It is difficult to arrive at a single consolidated figure. Since there is no formal registration anywhere for these young people who do not want to come into contact with official bodies, there is no possibility of counting individuals. However, a conclusion on this target group is very easy to draw: the number is too high. We must therefore work together, government and civil society, to reduce it. To do this, we need to lower the thresholds. Mr Rigot, you referred to the MSF project, which will soon be completed. It is a project that has significantly reduced barriers to reaching young people. My firm and Fedasil have already had several meetings on this subject with MSF and other relevant actors, together with the supervisory services. In the short term, I will ask for a budget from the Council of Ministers to resume this project and finance it through a cooperation agreement with Fedasil. The modalities of this takeover are discussed between the various services, as well as the possible operators of the site, as MSF cannot receive public funds. In addition, I would also like to refer to the budget that I made available last year for a low-threshold house for errant Maghreb children. Numerous preparatory meetings have already taken place with the municipality of Anderlecht and the Macadam association. There will soon be a vacancy for an employee of the municipality of Anderlecht, who will help shape this low-threshold house. The complexity of the target group and the complexity of Brussels reality make it necessary to go step by step and the results are not immediately visible. I hope it is clear to you that the target group for unaccompanied minors, including those who do not wish to remain on the radar, is a priority. It was not for nothing that we had the first Interministerial Conference on MENA. Children must be protected at all times. We are making efforts and will continue to do what is necessary to prevent children from being on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u24	Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answer. Clearly, everything is starting to sustain this project. I thank you for the minors involved and for the recognition of MSF's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. The strength of this MSF project is that it creates a space of trust for young people. This project could be multiplied for other audiences, including migrants in transit. Sometimes there is a fear of what the state represents and it would be interesting to be able to reassure the various possibilities. Mr Secretary of State, a study would also be interesting. I'm not sure your firm will have to lead it, but we'll have to dig some leads to try and objectify the situation. Adapting policies, even at the local level, without knowing the reality of the field is sometimes very complicated. We'd have everything to gain.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, until a recent amendment to the 1980 Act, foreign students wishing to train in a pre-graduate year could obtain a student visa for this purpose. Unfortunately since then, this is no longer the case since there is now a limitation. This is a clear mistake in transposing the European Directive; in Belgium, the preparatory years are organised by secondary education. In France, the preparatory years are integrated into the higher education curriculum. This is a minor mistake in the text, the consequences of which are dramatic for many candidates for these courses, for the institutions that organise these preparatory years and, ultimately, for the realization of the potential of positive contribution to our societies of these students in the process of development. I introduced a bill a few days ago. It was taken into consideration last Thursday to correct and correct the text so that students who wish to register could do so in the future within the framework of the law. But, in the meantime, these students suffer from this situation. Mr Secretary of State, have you been informed of the problem posed by this amendment? Would it not be desirable for you to send a first circular to the Aliens Office, in order to allow a transitional solution and thus allow the student candidates to save their year? I heard you say earlier that you shouldn't take the students hostage. I hope you share this view for my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u27	Mr Rigot, I would like to stress the importance I attach to academic migration. I am convinced that these students from third countries will make an important contribution to society. Students who meet the conditions laid down by law must have their application processed quickly and qualitatively and have the opportunity to integrate into the labour market in Belgium after their studies. For this reason, the transposition of Directive 2016/801 with regard to students from third countries was one of my priorities, leading to the law of 11 July 2021. As a result of this law, all the provisions of the 1980 law relating to the stay of students from third countries have been revised in order to ensure a rapid, efficient and transparent procedure for quality academic migration. The year of job search was also introduced, giving students who have completed their studies a year to find a job in Belgium. In the same law of 11 July 2021, the choice was made to give the possibility to follow studies organized by higher education to obtain a student visa. We are convinced that this will contribute to quality academic migration. Section 58 of the 1980 Act was amended by section 8 of the Act of 11 July 2021. Point 5 of that Article provides for the following definition as regards the preparatory year: "single year of study for the purpose of training in order to prepare for the higher education concerned, organised by the higher education institution, either in order to provide the additional knowledge acquired in order to subsequently access the higher education referred to, or in order to acquire the mastery of one of the national languages, which also concerns the language of instruction of the studies referred to." This is therefore a migration organised by the higher education institution. The Act of 11 July 2021 was approved by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2021 and was therefore adopted by Parliament. I was recently contacted by a secondary school, which communicated the same concern as you and, very recently, by the Minister of Education, Caroline Désir. However, the definition of the preparatory year is clear in the law. Therefore, this is not an error. While not calling into question the competence of the Communities in relation to the organisation of education, whether secondary or higher education, for a third-country national in order to obtain a study visa and therefore, for academic migration, such studies must be organised within a higher education institution. This is also important for the preparatory years.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, you speak of the absence of problems, of a breach of the organization of education, but the fact that the minister in charge of this question is asking you shows that there is still a question in his head. I also see, a priori, that I have been able to see preparatory work and, upstream, in relation to the bill that now leads to the situation that we are aware of, that the Minister of Education has not been questioned. This means that today we have made a decision without knowing these elements, which would probably have allowed us to fuel the debate. And when I took all the reports of the debates in the Committee on the Interior, I found that no one raised any questions with regard to Article 8, which leads to the current situation. Why? Because simply, many colleagues, like me, were not aware of the organisation of education in federated entities. Personally, I remain convinced that, if there are schools in higher education, if a minister tells us at some point that there is a concern and that, moreover, a European directive allows a broad interpretation and opens this field of interpretation of preparatory education not only to students but also to pupils, there is an opportunity to provide a constructive response. I also remain convinced that this will contribute to a quality academic migration, which will allow these students to prepare for success later in the academic field and thus to have a positive course. We will have an opportunity to discuss this when we deal with the bill, because I will of course seek the views of the federated entities in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, we may not agree with the following debate. I come back to the announcement of the next reception centres. In particular, there will be a centre in Genappe, which we are delighted to see. Molenbeek will also house a centre in the former Sebrechts home. You know the saga better than I do. The municipality objected to the construction of this new centre, or rather had accepted this new centre for Ukrainian citizens and had expressed reservations about a new place of classical Fedasil type. The centre, with a capacity of 600 places, has nevertheless welcomed its first asylum-seekers, but it seems that there are still major problems, in particular because asylum-seekers go to the municipality of Molenbeek and are refused the granting of an orange card which would allow them to work, on the pretext that the centre is not intended to remain and therefore it is not for the municipality of Molenbeek to move on to the status and the possibility that can be offered to them to work. From there comes my questions, Mr. Secretary of State. Do you confirm that asylum seekers at the new centre in Molenbeek are denied orange cards because of the municipality's opposition to the centre? Has additional structural aid for this reception been proposed to the municipality of Molenbeek? Can you provide an update on the upcoming openings of centres and the status of the federal hosting network? But you did it in a previous question. Is there a requirement for a numerical breakdown of reception centres among the regions that make up our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I must note that what you are saying is unfortunately correct: at this moment, asylum seekers staying at the Molenbeek reception centre cannot obtain a registration certificate. However, the municipality of Molenbeek will receive an annual grant of 330.78 euros per person, in accordance with Article 53 of the host law. This grant covers, among other things, the costs inherent in the reception structure, such as personnel costs directly related to the monitoring of administrative tasks, etc. Recently, Fedasil has been working with the local authorities to find a solution to their concerns. I think it is important for the commune that this be done in the best possible way, that grants be awarded so that it can do its administrative work and receive the necessary resources. At the same time, it is logical for the asylum-seeker to be able to receive the registration certificate when applying for it. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case, but I am not losing hope. I remain optimistic; I must be optimistic at least. Who knows? A solution can be found, which is important because the occupancy rate in the collective reception structure is just over 96% at this time. The saturation rate in the host network is 94%. These figures are high. I don't have to explain the current situation to anyone. As far as the next openings are concerned, I can tell you that reception places will open in Machelen, Saint-Ode, Nunceveux and Verviers. Mrs Daems asked me about the centres that are going to close. So I just listed the ones that are going to open. This will not solve the problem structurally. Even less if we start to close a centre where people are waiting for a response to their asylum application under conditions not always obvious. There is no explicit requirement for a quantitative distribution of reception centres among the Regions, as agreed on the distribution of persons with temporary protection status. We could give you the numbers of the current distribution. But it is not as if Brussels was much more represented than the other Regions. Of course, in the Brussels Region, it is certain that some municipalities are more represented than others. Everyone has to do their part. But as far as the division between regions is concerned, Brussels has no objective reason to say that it is more responsible than other regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, allow me to take this opportunity to respond to another of your interventions, since today the debates are proceeding in every direction. Belgium was not convicted because of the lack of places in the Fedasil centres. She was convicted for a lack of material assistance. While waiting for structural reform - the 5,400 buffer places for which you have committed yourself - there are other possibilities. My group has put solutions on the table, which are certainly momentary and are not the subject of an agreement within Vivaldi. But I am sure that we will not get away with this or that responsibility, even if I recognize that there are multiple responsibilities. As far as the municipality of Molenbeek is concerned, one must be able to recognise its particular situation. You're talking about consultation. You have now taken up your duties for two years. You know that the link between municipalities and federal bodies was destroyed under the previous government. In other words, the trust that could exist between the municipalities and partners like Fedasil has been destroyed. This can be seen when one sees the number of ALIs that have only fallen, when one sees the constant oppositions that exist to the new Fedasil centres. As you have tried to do, the person who succeeds you will have the task of restoring trust with the communes to show that one can accommodate correctly, in consultation with the population and the various bodies. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to say today that asylum seekers cannot have access to an orange card because there have been conflicts between you, Fedasil, the municipality or others. I think you share this view that I intend to convey at the communal level. Asylum seekers cannot be taken hostage, even if responsibilities are shared. It's time for them to have access to this orange card, like any other asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u32	Mr Secretary of State, since the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis, many efforts have been required of the municipalities to house the refugees. In particular, the municipal coordinators are strongly requested and they are required to be reached any day at any time in case of an appeal from Fedasil for the reception of new refugees. However, it seems that the communication is much more complicated in the other direction and that there is no reference person at Fedasil who can directly respond to the requests of the communal coordinators, especially outside the office hours. Mr. Secretary of State, is there such a contact person at Fedasil? If so, how can we ensure that everyone is aware of its existence? If not, is this possible in the short term? What other solutions are possible in order to be able to respond to the questions and requests of the communal coordinators, more specifically in an emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u33	Mr Moutquin, for any designation as a refugee, Fedasil's employees first contact the municipal coordinator to verify whether the designation can take place and to answer any questions. Fedasil designates a reception place only on the basis of the offer communicated by the municipality in the hosing tool. In case of difficulties, once the designation has been completed, Fedasil is no longer competent for transfers at the local level, but the municipal coordinator who follows the file has access to the housing tool itself. Nevertheless, the local coordinator may recall the person of Fedasil who organized the designation. There is no general telephone number in this case, but a centralized email address (heysel@fedasil.be) I would like to thank the communal coordinators who do important work in circumstances that are not easy in times of crisis and war. However, in most municipalities this is going well, thanks to the efforts made by the municipality and the local coordinator in particular. Some issues can be shared through the appropriate governor. Thus, these questions will be forwarded to Fedasil for useful follow-up. If each local authority were to express its grievances separately, the services would be overwhelmed by the most diverse questions and comments. In addition, there is still the number of the National Crisis Centre and the e-mail address of Fedasil for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I believe that passing through the governors is a good solution. This reduces the flow of possible questions about Fedasil. I do not know if there is coordination between the governors. In my province, for example, there are frequent meetings with the 27 municipalities. I don't know what's going on with the other provinces. It's a question to dig. In addition, it is known that the situation is becoming more complex with the hosting companies. In the Walloon Region, we have been waiting for collective housing for weeks. Communication between the communes and Fedasil will have to be fluidized as urgent issues will accelerate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, at the very beginning of your appointment, I remember that you had met with the association GAMS (Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilation). I know this meeting marked you. It is impossible not to be. As a reminder, this association is campaigning against violence against girls, including in the form of female genital mutilation. As you know, since 2019, the parents of a girl, who is at risk of excision in her country of origin and who has received international protection, are no longer automatically recognized as refugees. So if they want to be able to continue living with their daughter - which seems logical - they are forced to stay in illegality, with all the consequences we know: no status allowing them to work, risk falling into precariousness, etc. In addition, the identification of a girl at risk of excision leads to a follow-up of the situation of the child by the CGRA, which requires a stable situation of the parents. This reversal in the granting of protection therefore creates a very problematic situation for which there is currently no legal framework. This year, the Federal Ombudsman has, moreover, made a recommendation to demand that a specific status be granted to parents, without this status being yet known. The only current solution for parents is to apply for 9bis regularization. But this process is long and, moreover, expensive. Mr Secretary of State, how many regularization applications have been filed because of the risk of female circumcision in the last three years? How many were accepted? What are the criteria for accepting the application for regularization of the parents of a girl at risk of excision? Are criteria other than that of being the parents of a girl at risk of female circumcision mandatory or essential for the application to be accepted? What about the criteria for employment or social integration, for example? Finally, is a future systematic status envisaged in the coming months in order to put an end to these unnecessary complications?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u36	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, pending a more structural solution, the Aliens Office has put in place an emergency procedure with the assistance of CGRA to deal with these cases with the highest priority. As a reminder, since early 2019, CGRA has indicated that the parents of children, who are recognized as refugees because of a risk of female genital mutilation, would no longer be automatically recognized as having the same status as their children, unless they can claim a distinct and well-founded personal fear of persecution or run the risk of serious harm themselves. So that's the reaction! Unrecognized parents have since been invited to apply for regularization on the basis of Article 9bis of the Aliens Act. As soon as a child obtains recognition as a refugee, the CGRA shall contact the parents and invite them to submit an application on the basis of Article 9a. CGRA immediately informs the Aliens Office so that it can process these applications as a matter of priority. The assessment is based on the reality and parentage with the recognized child due to the risk of female genital mutilation and the existence of emotional and/or financial ties with the child. Public order is also an aspect that is balanced. The assessment is similar to that carried out for any application from a parent whose child is in legal residence. Since the introduction of this identification system, 296 cases of recognition due to the risk of female genital mutilation have been reported by CGRA. In these 296 cases, 248 parents were identified. In fact, several girls from the same family may be recognized as refugees, resulting in 248 out of 296 cases. Of these 248 single parents or couples of parents, 137 have been regularized, 4 have been denied regularization due to a public policy problem, 3 have had their application declared not to be relevant as a result of having already been recognized as refugees and 19 recent applications are still being processed. In addition, 61 persons have obtained a residence permit in a context other than that of Article 9a. Finally, 24 cases have been reported by the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA), but their applications have not yet been submitted or transmitted to the Office for Foreigners. These are all interesting numerical details! You will notice that, in what may be my last committee meeting, I am providing you with quite interesting numerical details. The figures for applications processed in this particular context have already been published in the 2020 Annual Report of the Aliens Office, which was presented to Parliament. I will, in a short time and before parliamentary leave, propose a bill to the government parties to create a status on the basis of family reunification for this category of people who, today, must go through a procedure that is not the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u37	I'd rather say she's illogical. You mentioned a proposal before the leave. Will you still be there until July 21st? We worked together for two years for a just and humane migration. The intention of this government, which is not the previous one, is to strike a balance between our positions, but also to bring logic into migration. Migration has too often been seen as an electoral carrier and I think it is time to put logic back on it. Tomorrow, we will discuss in committee with the Director of CGRA on the issue of Afghans, for example. We can have different political ideas and realize that giving an order to leave the territory to an Afghan, who cannot return home because we have no agreement with the Taliban, is illogical. The question of the parents of children who are victims of genital mutilation, the question of Afghans and the question of undocumented persons in general show that we lack logic. Failure to choose an Ecolo Party or CD&V solution for migration requires at least a logical solution. Maybe that's the message I'll send to your successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u38	Questions 55028114C and 55028115C by Mr Francken were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, the PVT (Work Holiday Programme) in Australia makes it possible to travel to this country without having to find an employer before leaving the territory, as is the case with conventional work visas. In Belgium, the age limit for taking advantage of the PVT is 30 years, while it has been extended to 35 years in France since 2019. It should be noted that Australia itself is in favour of the PVT exceeding the age limit of 30 years. I was asked by young people in search of adventure and training in the English language and I asked your colleague Mrs Wilmès in writing about the possibility of harmonisation between Belgium and France. I was told that Mr. Dermagne was the most competent minister in this area. I asked Minister Dermagne, who replied that, I quote: "The initiative to negotiate the cooperation agreement and to adapt the law belongs to my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs". On 28 September 2021, I asked Mrs Wilmès again in the Committee on External Relations. Apart from the fact that this reference of answers between ministers seemed to be a source of disgust to her, she concluded her answer by saying: "I will ask my office to speak directly to the competent minister in order to see what needs to be done to make progress in this area." Mr Secretary of State, the services of Parliament have informed me that it is you who will finally be able to answer this question. Since September 2021, has your firm had contact with the appropriate minister to move forward with the PVT Australia issue in order to extend the age limit to 35 years? Have contacts led to constructive initiatives that could benefit the thousands of Belgians preparing their journey to Australia after two years of pandemic? Finally, in your personal capacity, do you think that an extension of the PVT age to 35 is possible in the short term in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u40	Mr Prévot, I would have liked to have been also responsible for foreign affairs, but that is not the case. That being said, neither I nor the members of my firm have been approached by Australia as part of the PVT file. The agreement with Australia was published in the Belgian Monitor on 6 September 2004. An amendment to this agreement requires the agreement of all the parties of the government and all the departments concerned, namely the Asylum and Migration, the Interior, Foreign Affairs, Social Affairs and Justice as well as the partners of the Regions. The agreement with Australia is part of a series of similar agreements with third countries. All such agreements signed by Belgium concern persons between the ages of 18 and 30 when submitting their applications. It is important that the rules be the same for all countries concerned. In addition, the maximum age of 30 years is adapted to another type of migration which combines work and culture (young au pair) under which the age requirement is 18 years of age at the age of 25 years and 30 years for citizens of the European Union. The age of 30 seems to be a good deal. There is no demand or concrete plan to change this age in the short term. Moreover, a more appropriate administrative procedure, once the persons concerned are in Belgium, seems more appropriate. You ask me to simplify the administrative procedure for registration in the National Register, as soon as the persons concerned are in Belgium, and to adapt it to the status. This point was also mentioned in our policy statement. It will be included in the Migration Code, which is often referred to in this Commission. Even if it is not a current priority, it will be part of the migration agreement on which we have been working for some time. First steps have already been taken in this area. I hope that, together with the government, all the parties concerned, but also the opposition parties that can join us if they wish, we will be able to develop this Code of Migration, which will make it possible to work in a more transparent and efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, after this ping-pong, I will have finally got an answer. It is therefore estimated that 30 years is the appropriate age and, in any case, "a good deal", to repeat your remarks. I had been arrested by many people who were tempted by this trip to Australia. For several reasons, including long-term studies, they would have liked to be able to try the adventure beyond 30 years, as has been the case since 2019 in France, where this permit was extended to 35 years old. I will therefore be able to give an initial answer to those concerned, and I thank you for that. As for simplification, I mean that it will be part of the migration agreement – and that will obviously be a good thing. I do not know if you will conclude, since Mr. Moutquin was very interested in whether you were going to stay with us for several weeks or more. In any case, this simplification component would be good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has long been a popular destination for students from Cameroon. That was discussed a moment ago, but I am skipper at the moment between two committee meetings. I've asked questions about students from Cameroon before. Already in 2019, just after my mandate entered, I questioned your predecessor Maggie De Block about statements by the Foreign Affairs Department about the fraud as a recurring pattern among those Cameroonian so-called students. In a recent interview with Knack, the first President of the Council for Foreign Affairs, Serge Bodart, also noted an increase in the number of cases involving such students. A quote from that interview reads as follows: "For example, we see a remarkable number of students from Cameroon who want to come to Belgium." He suggested the possibility: "Maybe someone there has found a way to get easier in Europe." I would perhaps leave the floor, because, as you yourself have said, there has been a problem in this area for ten years. Most of the students who want to come here with a visa come from Cameroon. I do not think that is a coincidence, and perhaps everyone in this committee knows that. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any explanation for the remarkable increase in the number of students from Cameroon? Does this evolution also exist for students from other African countries? We have already heard figures and at least they are not as high as the figures for Cameroon. To what extent is there still abuse as a recurring pattern, as reported by, among other things, Mr Bodart? What measures have you already taken to combat this abuse? Is there any need for additional measures? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u43	Mr Van Langenhove, the number of applications for student residence from Cameroon has been quite high for several years. As I said earlier, articles from ten years ago dealt with this problem. In 2017, there were 1,949 applications, of which 956 were refused. In 2021 there were 3,382 applications, of which 1,616 were refused. A disproportionately high percentage of applications for student residence is submitted by Cameroonians, almost one in four in 2021. Undoubtedly an unstable political and economic situation encourages young Cameroonians to try their luck abroad. I have just said that Cameroonians are first in line. The top five include Morocco with 1,651 applications, China with 1,157, Turkey with 628 and Congo with 586. You also had a question about abuse as a recurring pattern. Even if you have not done so, we cannot, first of all, put all the applicants in the student residence on the same footing. I encourage study migration for people who want to study effectively and develop a future, who want to contribute to our country and who want to develop their own country as architects. If we can make that happen and get people to study, why wouldn't we? That is also why I have made possible a more transparent and efficient procedure for quality student migration through the law of 11 July 2021. At the same time, it must be noted that student migration from Cameroon continues to increase disproportionately and it is not always the most qualitative applications. The 2021 figures show that less than half of Cameroonian student accommodation applications are approved. This is by far the lowest percentage of all countries from which applications for student residence are submitted. In 2021, for example, a total of 2,994 refusals of the student residence visa, of which 1,616 were made in Cameroonn files. That's a pretty high number. For comparison, in Morocco there are also many applications for a student residence. The rate of grant is the second lowest, but it still has a rate of grant of 65% or 560 negative decisions on 1,651 applications. Both the diplomatic post and the DVZ regularly find that false or falsified academic documents are being used, because studies are not the ultimate goal of migration. Although it must be a priority to filter fraud and abuse from applications, both at the level of educational institutions and at the level of the embassy and the DVZ, we should not stigmatise every Cameroonian either. For this reason, we are also planning further consultations with the educational institutions on the registration of Cameroonian students. I believe that everyone must take responsibility for this. Our educational institutions must also monitor this closely. Various measures have already been taken both last year and this year to deal with the large number of Cameroon applications for student residence in a timely and qualitative manner and to filter out the files in which there are indications of fraud and abuse. Applicants for a student residence shall be interviewed before submitting the application. At that stage, the academic documents submitted are verified by experts and the academic trajectory of the candidate student is discussed, as well as its consistency with the course of study envisaged in Belgium. The new provisions on the student residence introduced by the Law of 11 July 2021 will also contribute to a solution. For example, it fully and exclusively focuses on studies organised by higher education institutions. Your colleague from the PS just asked to make this possible for students who do a seventh year in secondary education, but we did not choose to do so. Contrary to what was said in the question, that was not a mistake but a choice. This will also be a response to the disproportionate number of applications from a student residence in Cameroon which relate to the seventh year of secondary education, since registration for a seventh year in secondary education will no longer be sufficient as a basis for student migration. The figures show that there is a very high number of Cameroonians among the people of the seventh year of secondary education who want to come to Belgium. Several measures were taken again this year. For the first time, the new provisions of the Foreigner's Act concerning the student residence are fully applied. This makes 2022 a transitional year, in which a balance will certainly be made after the completion of the student season. It will then be decided whether additional measures are needed. If that is the case, then we absolutely must take it. I have already said that I believe that people who want to study abroad should also be able to do so. That's good for the student and for everyone. However, we must act as hard as possible against abuse, which makes the whole project impossible. It doesn't make it obvious for a real student to start his course either. So we cannot be strict enough about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u44	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. If we see that this problem has been going on for some ten years, and that the many measures taken by your predecessors have not done much, and that, on the contrary, the problem is getting worse, I fear that we should also prepare ourselves for the failure of these measures or their restrictive effect. Let us look for the future at what else we can do if this problem continues to arise rather than acting ad hocly. There are a lot of refusals from Cameroonian and Moroccan students and this involves a great administrative burden. It is not because there is a refusal, that there is no pressure on our system, quite the contrary. These refusals also create a great deal of administrative burden. We certainly do not shave everyone along the same lines. I see the point of transferring knowledge around the world and getting a better understanding of each other, but if we want to save that beautiful system, like the asylum system where we have to get the fraudsters out to support the real asylum migrants, then we have to do the same for student visas. We must then take out the fraudsters from Cameroon and be much more critical for countries where diplomas are for sale for a few dollars. We must also take a much more critical approach to countries such as China, which abuse this system to copy and do espionage. In this way we can ensure that many generations will be able to make use of this beautiful system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u45	Mr. Secretary of State, following his farewell as the first chairman of the RvV, Serge Bodart took stock of the situation in Knack and made some remarkable statements. He said, among other things, about the difference in justice between the south and the north of Belgium: "That difference exists only in asylum matters, more or less one third of the professions." A refugee who does not receive asylum and makes an appeal, through the French-speaking procedure, has 18% chance of obtaining the protected status. In Dutch this is only 2%. This is rightly referred to by Mr Bodart as'embarrassing and problematic'. This is an old very that has been discussed extensively before, including in connection with the discussion of the annual report of the RV. A final striking statement concerns complex legislation as a source of frustration. Mr Bodart says: 'I was appointed first President five years ago. At the request of the then Secretary of State, my predecessor has developed a simplified procedure with a working group. I continued her work, with the help of many colleagues, and in June 2018 I delivered a large package of concrete proposals to Mr. Francken." A few months later, however, he resigned, as you may soon do. "These proposals are now gathering dust," says Mr Bodart. "Mr. Mahdi has started well with the appointment of a new Committee on Migration Code, but he may also be leaving now," says Mr. Bodart. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. What explanation do you have for the very big difference in justice in asylum matters between north and south? What possibilities do you see to achieve more unity of justice? Can you confirm that the proposals made by Mr Bodart are now gathering dust? Does this also apply to the proposals submitted by other bodies? In the meantime, what progress has been made with the work of the new Migration Code Committee? When can we expect news?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u46	Mr Van Langenhove, you have already asked a number of questions about the difference in justice. My answer to that remains the same: that difference can be explained by a number of cases. In asylum files, it is often about facts and the assessment of credibility, and there is a margin for this. The CGVS also deals with other cases involving countries of origin in French and the Netherlands. That too can make a difference. There are also differences in case law with the Council of State, which can also have an impact. However, and this is not insignificant, I am convinced that we need to work even more towards unity of justice on top of the mechanisms already provided for in the law today. It cannot, and Mr Bodart has rightly said so, that there is such a big difference. That's not good for the RV itself either. The reasons I have mentioned do not offer a full explanation either. It is therefore very important that there is concert within the RV, that there are clear procedural rules and that we are therefore also working on the Migration Code. This will help to limit as much as possible the margin of interpretation, which is always a little bit present. You'll never get the difference explained on the basis of a sentiment that could be different. The texts written by the RvV in 2018 have indeed been covered by a layer of dust under the previous legislature. When I arrived, we immediately started working on it. The committee I have set up has developed a framework of guidelines based on the input collected with a broad survey. Those guidelines were also validated by the government. Meanwhile, there is a new structure for the Migration Code. On this basis, a number of work packages have been launched. Currently, the committee is working with the working group on the chapters Access to the territory, Short stay, Union citizens, International protection, Reception, Right of return after absence, Registers, Family reunification and Appeal procedures. That first package is now being written to. It looks at which texts have already been written for the Migration Code and how we can bring them into line with the main lines. The texts of the RvV and of the other administrations are also used where possible. So they're not covered in dust anymore. The texts of the RvV are currently also used to work on those chapters. The work is going well. The final texts will be discussed systematically within the government and the draft law will be submitted to Parliament in 2023. The Migration Code is still a top priority in the coalition agreement. After all, everyone is in favour of clear, rapid and transparent procedures, which we all need. Mr Bodart has also stressed this in Parliament, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u47	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I was a little surprised at your statement at first, but you yourself nuanced it by saying that that statement is indeed not sufficient for the huge difference in justice. We are not talking about 10 and 11 % or 8 and 12 %, but we are talking about 18 and 2 %. This cannot be explained by the small differences that exist in the cases dealt with, inter alia by the language. As Mr Bodart says, that is indeed embarrassing and problematic. We urgently need to do more about this. I am afraid that this problem may still be attended by many ministers and that little concrete action will be taken. What can really be done about it is, of course, well known to all of us. That is the complete division of those powers and then we and our French-speaking friends can do what we want. How beautiful the future can sound. Mr Bodart says that these proposals are gathering dust. You contradict that and say that these proposals are being implemented at this very moment. I'm inclined to believe you. I know that the media can sometimes magnify sharp statements, where they are not always in line with reality. With regard to the Migration Code, we look forward to further progress. I hope that we will be involved a little more than we are now, so that we too can give our feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u48	Questions Nos 55028332C and 55028334C by Mr Francken are postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, last week the German daily Die Welt reported that the Greek Coast Guard has identified a change in illegal migration routes from Turkey. Smugglers would increasingly use the direct route from the Turkish coast to Italy. Previously, this much longer route was only used during the winter months. Today, however, the figures show that some 4,000 people have set foot in Italy since the beginning of the year. By comparison, last year there were only 800 in the same period of time. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm the report on this matter? Has this development already been the subject of consultation at European level? Has contact already been made with the Turkish authorities, with whom you yourself have good contact, in order to stop this dangerous development? If so, what arrangements were made?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u50	Mr Van Langenhove, I can certainly confirm the existence of the migration route from Turkey to Italy. According to recent figures, from May 2022, a total of 5,668 people left Turkey this year via the eastern Mediterranean route to the EU, of which 2,265 went to Italy. The European Union is holding talks on this matter with Turkey. Turkey's flows to the European Union are part of the regular talks with Ankara. These talks are also about the implementation of the EU-Turkey Declaration, in which context we are still discussing an extension of the deal. I think it is a good thing that this migration route is coming up, because it helps to clarify in the discussions how we can work on it together. In addition, it is a fact that these routes simply change constantly. From the western side of Africa, the route to Gran Canaria is one of the most dangerous, so it was no longer used for some time, making it more difficult to get to the European Union from there. Suddenly it is used. So we are constantly finding a variety, because we are always looking for an opportunity to get into the EU in the easiest or least difficult way. That's a matter of continuous follow-up. The European Union must, above all, ensure that border controls are strengthened throughout the EU's external borders. It must also work towards better cooperation with the neighbouring countries of the European Union. If we can stabilise those countries and ensure that people in Libya, Morocco, Egypt or anywhere else can develop a stable life, it will also benefit the EU. I believe that, apart from the concrete agreements with the Turkish authorities in the framework of the EU-Turkey declaration, we should look at how we can develop cooperation with third countries, the EU's neighbours, which we need to tackle in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u51	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I note that it's 2,265 and not 4,000 like the media. One should always take the media with a grain of salt. Now, the route that is taken from Turkey towards Italy is of course longer and more dangerous than some other routes. If we are in the best interests of Europe, but also of the migrants who wish to come to Europe, then we must send out a strong signal as soon as possible that taking that route and travelling illegally to Europe will not be successful and will lead to a residence permit in the European Union. In order to do so, we need not only to control our borders better, as you rightly say, but simply to close our borders to illegal migration. Legally where it can be, physically where it has to be. I am a little disappointed that you have not mentioned any consultations in the EU on these matters. I hope you will put that on the table yourself if necessary. I also hope that you will direct yourself to consultations with the Turkish authorities, not only on the Turkey deal, but also specifically on these events, in order to see how we can deal with them in the very short term. In the European Union, it is always very slow for such discussions. Every day, migrants probably leave by this dangerous route. Every day we run the risk of migrants drowning on this dangerous route. I think it is best to avoid that rather than have to heal it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, a fee has been due for certain applications for residence since 2015. Two weeks ago, you announced that you would change those fees. It is particularly striking that the price of a residence card for labour migration is greatly reduced by you. What financial impact will the reduction of fees on work and residence cards have? How much is the estimated loss of revenue? Which and how many potential foreign profiles do you want to attract with the reduction of those fees? How will the services manage any increase in applications for such residence permits?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u53	Mr Roggeman, the adjustment of the amounts of the fees is not just happening, nor is it happening in the wild. An objective measurement of charges was carried out by KPMG, on which the new amounts for the fees are based. KPMG calculated that the average 7,903 applications for labour migration per year have an operating cost of 709,559 euros. Together with a fixed cost of 36 euros per application, the fee was therefore set at 126 euros. So it's purely quantifying what the cost of an application is. Prior to that, 366 euros were wrongly charged for this. That amount was the result of wet fingering. The fact that the fee previously did not reflect the actual cost was denounced by the Council of State in several judgments in 2019, which caused legal uncertainty and why the fee was adjusted. An average of 7,903 applications per year would mean a reduction in the total amount of EUR 995,778 per year, but that is not a reduction in revenue. The aim of the fee is also not to make profits, but to cover the costs. In addition, another element has to be charged. Indeed, the amounts unduly collected have very often led to recovery before the courts. In 2018 529.593 euros were recovered. In 2019, 396 750 euros had to be repaid to foreigners, who had paid too much for non-correctly calculated fees. These are the costs of recovery. In addition, the costs of the judge and the entire legal system. For what, I'll tell you what. If anyone wants to come here, they have to pay the costs. If the amount is not correct and the Council of State whistles us back and the foreigners get their money back through court, then we mainly have an absurd procedure. The real loss is also made up of highly qualified professionals who have been attracted by our neighbouring countries in recent years because the costs in our country have been fairly arbitrary. Fortunately, applications for labour migration to Belgium have been increasing again in recent years. For the specific profile of people we need in our labour market, especially highly qualified staff who are wanted around the world, we see an increase. We now have 2,740 applications for labour migration in the first trimester of 2022. This is very little compared to the Netherlands. The war on talent to get certain profiles here is of great importance. We always, rightly, boast about our biotech, but there are good-looking minds all over the world. How can we stay at number one in that area? Through proper education. I've heard that a minister is working to eliminate certain delays. That'll help, too. Bringing strong profiles here doesn't strike me as unwise. Is a fee merely a fee for the service provided? As a result of the legislative amendment, the amount was adjusted to the objective treatment costs. The fee was therefore not reduced to attract more foreign profiles, but because the Council of State rightly found that the amounts did not reflect the actual costs. Which profiles do we want to attract? This is determined by the regional authorities, which each determine on the basis of a labour market survey which profiles are needed. Also, matching the right profiles with the needs of the labour market is done by the regional authorities. That is a good thing. The regions must get to work on this. I suspect I'll find a partner in you for that. The labour market has different needs in Flanders than in Wallonia. Giving them the space to fill that out as best they can is not unimportant. If we want to attract certain profiles, we need other things, such as the digital unique window created last year, a platform on which people can submit their applications. For a New Zealander who wants to work as a bio-engineer and has the choice between Belgium and the Netherlands, this is a choice between two villages. If we want to attract such profiles, we must ensure that the unique window works quickly and efficiently and can provide the right service. I am very pleased that the federal level and the regions in total were 11 or 12 of us in this institutionally exciting country that signed the digital window. I think that has helped, and we need to proceed with this in a sensible way. Sometimes we are a little nervous or reluctant about migrant workers coming to our country, while there is nothing wrong with a selective labour migration story. We must first put our own people to work as much as possible in Belgium as anyone who lives and legally lives in Belgium has to work here, but even if everyone in our country is working, there will still be a need for certain labour market profiles for certain bottleneck professions. There are highly qualified people who have so much knowledge and skills that we are best able to integrate them into our service economy. They make our country ambitious and attractive. In the past, too often, we have been too timid about this, which I can understand very well in view of the problems of migration and other migratory channels, which are not always the correct ones, but we must not miss out on the issue of labour migration and certain profiles. Today we are losing the battle of some of our neighbouring countries, which means that in certain sectors in which we have always been the frontrunners, we will not be, or unfortunately will not be, anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I share your enthusiasm for labour migration in part. I fully agree with the section on the bottleneck professions and the difficult sectors in our labour market. However, we also see that the system of labour migration often gives rise to the granting of certain statutes in seasonal work, both in agriculture and in the construction sector. Often there are no fixed contracts and work is done on a temporary basis or by people who do not start in the job for which they were granted a residence permit and who then disappear into illegality. So there are still some gaps in the system. However, it is true that selection takes place in cooperation with the regional authorities. I would very much like to see you continue to work on the activation of the tens of thousands and even hundreds of thousands of job seekers and unemployed people that this country is still rich, especially in Brussels and Wallonia. Unfortunately, we are still a long way from home in those regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u55	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55028457C) by Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u56	Mr President, I have received the answer to my next three questions with numbers 55028457C, 55028458C and 55028459C in writing from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u57	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55028457C, 55028458C and 55028459C therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u58	Since the end of May, the Commissioner-general for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) has again taken negative decisions in the Afghan asylum files, despite the alarming reports about the human rights situation in Afghanistan. Are orders to leave the territory today given to Afghans in a negative assessment of the CGVS? If not, what statute are they covered by? Will they be temporarily regulated in this case? If so, can the order to leave the territory be effectively executed? Are agreements made with the Taliban to take back rejected asylum seekers? If so, under what conditions and with what guarantees for these refugees? If they cannot be taken back by the Taliban, what statute will they receive in Belgium? After all, the Return Directive does not allow people without residence status and without the possibility of expulsion to enter the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u59	A negative decision of the CGVS may be appealed by the applicant to the Council for Aliens' Disputes. That appeal may or may not be suspensive. If the appeal is not suspensive, the Department of Foreign Affairs shall examine on a case-by-case basis whether an order to leave the territory can be issued. The DVZ has not yet issued an order for Afghan nationals to return to Afghanistan following a recent negative decision by the CGVS. Any person who receives an order to leave the territory must comply with this in the first instance. A voluntary return to Afghanistan is, in principle, possible. A forced return to Afghanistan is obviously not possible at the moment. However, Afghan nationals can be removed from Belgian territory as part of Dublin and bilateral readmissions to some of the European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u60	Thank you for your answers, Mr Secretary of State, but they are not very concrete. The delivery of an order to leave the territory has enormous consequences. Just think of the possible repression that could befall them. Without residence status, nothing will change their situation anyway. Without the status of residence, they will be condemned to a rightless, inhumane and precarious existence. European legislation is clear about this: it cannot be done. For me, too, many questions remain unanswered about the assessment of the situation in Afghanistan by the CGVS. I did not ask for it today, but I will ask Mr Van den Bulck about it tomorrow. He's coming to Parliament. Hopefully we'll get the necessary answers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, the quality audit of the Jalhay reception centre, managed by Svasta, remains inaccessible to our citizens, while there were serious indications of abuse because of Svasta. In February, I asked for more clarification on these internal investigations, which would confirm some cases of abuse. You replied that you are not based on press articles but on the Fedasil reports. I don't really want anything more than the same thing. Apache's investigative journalists intended to find out more about this quality audit and submitted a request for disclosure. Fedasil's official press release on the situation could not satisfy them. Professor and lawyer in administrative law David D. Hooghe said: "What makes Fedasil public now seems to me to be a little low. The request for disclosure was refused for privacy reasons and the CTB, which has to rule on the appeal, has been suspended for more than six months, whereas confidential information can also be selectively removed from the document when it is published. In addition, there are matters that are more important than the right to privacy. In this case, that is the general interest. The risk of abuse of the rights of people without Belgian nationality has been increased, so that social and parliamentary control is all the more necessary. This primacy of the general interest is also enshrined in the judgment of 8 November 2016 of the European Court of Human Rights. I quote Eline Kindt of the League of Human Rights: "The public interest plays here. It is the responsibility of the government to strike a balance. For example, they can extract information that leads to a specific person from the document. One fundamental right is against the other. It seems to me to be a fool's errand to place privacy above the common good here. I have the impression that the public authorities no longer consider public administration to be important. Mr Secretary of State, I urge you, taking these arguments into account, to achieve the publication of the audit rather than make it look like a cover-up. Will you make the quality audit of the management by Svasta of the reception centre in Jalhay public?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u62	Mrs Daems, the audit report of the reception centre in Jalhay can be consulted at the headquarters of Fedasil. That audit report has led to actions to improve the quality of reception. There is therefore no question of a cover-up. I can only stress that providing quality care is crucial for me as well as for Fedasil. The quality level is therefore monitored by permanent quality checks by Fedasil. It is not yet entirely certain, but it is possible that this has been my last question. That is why I would have liked to thank two people in particular, Mrs Daems and Mr Van Langenhove. They will both be surprised, but it is the committee members who attended each meeting, or almost every meeting, from the first to the last minute. I believe that controlling the government is an important task for a Member of Parliament, not just by asking a question, to record a video and then to leave. I mean this, I think it is a respectful way of doing politics. I would therefore like to thank them, as you, Mr President, for their very correct cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u63	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity, presumably on behalf of all the members of the committee, to thank you for your good cooperation in recent years. There was a good understanding, a good cooperation. I wish you every success in your further career.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these words. Of course, that control function belongs to our job. To return to your answer, have I understood correctly that we can therefore consult the quality audit if we request it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u65	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u66	Then we shall certainly do so. It is important for us to be able to look at this audit. I also wish you every success as Chairman of CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-07-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic809x.u67	Mrs Daems, I'm sorry I lost track of your reply.
