ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I will immediately fall into the house. What are these abuses at PostNL? The police have invaded three different depots, in Wommelgem, Willebroek and Turnhout. Nine people were arrested, two of them, namely the CEO and his number two, are still in jail. I just read that there are three of them now. They were arrested for malpractice. At the end of November, there was also a large-scale invasion of PostNL in an investigation into infringements of social legislation. These abuses therefore give rise to concerns in the sector. Clear and strict regulation seems therefore necessary. My question is also about the new work deal, which would make it easier for e-commerce to introduce evening work. Mr Tirez has already answered several questions. Madam Secretary, will there be any change for the postmen who work on Saturdays or Sundays? Will there be an additional price for customers who receive packages within 24 hours, as you suggested last year? Do you think there should be a different rate for express deliveries versus ordinary deliveries? Does that also apply to deliveries from abroad? My final questions are very important to me. Madam Secretary, how are you on the postal bill? Will there be a general regulation for all parcel services? If so, does that mean that all parcel services will be covered by the Postal Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u2	Madam Secretary, I'll start with today's news. We believe that the court should do its job and will not anticipate what can be demonstrated. It is clear that you are working on a new postal law, Madam Secretary. You have asked BIPT to ask a number of questions to the sector. What you are proposing may come from good intentions, but is actually a very bad idea. There is, of course, free entrepreneurship in the European Union, but you want to limit it by obliging companies to employ a certain number of staff. You will of course say that you must do so and have no choice, but that is not true. Such a far-reaching measure can only be introduced after all the other measures have been tried and are not working. There is another solution: joint and several liability. This solution works, for example, in construction and in security companies, but the parcel sector in Germany has already introduced joint and several liability. Your postal law therefore seems to me to be at least contrary to free enterprise and undermines investment security in our country, because if companies invest in a warehouse, they will also have to provide a parking space, for example, because they have to have their own cars. What will happen to all the private companies that are active today, but that will no longer have customers tomorrow? They have leases, which will not be taken over by the parcel companies. So there will be a lot of problems. Finally, we also have to look at the role of bpost in the story, but I will come back to that in my reply, because I am careful to ensure that my two minutes' speaking time are not exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u3	Minister, this is a subject that we discuss regularly. This was discussed during the discussion of your last policy note, as well as in other circumstances, such as the time for topical questions in plenary. On the one hand, people easily receive their parcels. On the other hand, the sector is experiencing drifts that have already been noted. There was also talk of child labour and other illegal practices. In an answer to the House last November, you said, "It reminds us of the 19th century." We follow the news from time to time. I read a first dispatch announcing the arrest of nine people by the Antwerp Judicial Police and the Labour Inspectorate, accompanied by a seal in Wommelgem, Willebroek and Turnhout. Then, when we read L'Echo, we learned that PostNL's CEO, Rudy Van Rillaer, would have been incarcerated. So, the news is accelerating from minute to minute. These facts confirm what emerged from our various debates. Social control, which is indispensable, has its limits. I asked Minister Dermagne about the Social Inspectorate, whose services do what they can and whose work is objected to by numbers. It is therefore absolutely necessary to establish clear rules that put an end to unacceptable working conditions and such illegal practices. There's an emergency. Minister, where are you in the implementation of your general policy note, which referred to the regulation of this sector through a draft bill? I'm changing my initial question, which was a little too general. Consultation with the IBPT takes time. Is it over? What's the calendar? When will a draft be submitted to us for debate and, I hope, adopted by Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u4	Mr President, Minister, we are caught up every hour by actuality. My original question was about the seal of DPD in Mechelen, but meanwhile the depots of PostNL were sealed, nine arrests were made yesterday and we just heard that the CEO and number 2 of PostNL would stay in jail. We all know what this is about: delivery couriers who work as bogus self-employed people. A border is gradually being crossed. The CEO of PostNL is now accused of running a criminal organisation and trafficking in human beings. That goes much further than just working with bogus self-employed people. Of course, it is already a very serious matter that the couriers do not receive wages and social protection to which they are entitled, but this is the excess of the structural social fraud that is taking place there. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight and congratulate the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Auditor for their perseverance and decisiveness. They continue to carry on these checks. There must of course be controls and this problem must be addressed, and I agree with Mr Delizée. However, checks should not be the only way to tackle fraud. We need a more structural and, above all, a more preventive approach, because in the meantime the parcel delivery companies are the victims. They drive around against the clock at far too low a fee and without social protection. You have already announced that the postal law would be amended. I would like to insist once again on the urgency of this. Do you think that's enough to stop malpractice in the sector? What's the timeline? Has there been any consultation with the Minister of Work? I asked him the same question. According to the Labour Auditor, the abuses exceed all imagination and there should be a broad public debate on sustainable e-commerce. International web stores often promise free delivery and return, but he believes that this can never happen in any other way than the way it is now. He's mopping with the tap open. What's your opinion on his call? How should this problem be addressed further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u5	My question had already been tabled before this morning's events. We have already had a lot of discussions on the issue of e-commerce and false self-employment. I have heard that two top people from PostNL Belgium have been arrested and are suspected of being an accessory to the organisation of social fraud, undeclared work and trafficking in human beings. That is a serious matter, because they are organizing such illegal practices. That's another thing than false self-employment. I know some people in that sector. We consider this postal law to be extremely important, and it is therefore vital that there should be a regulation. When I hear that the N-VA wants to continue to liberalise, I ask myself where this will lead. The postal law must not be an empty box and must represent progress for the majority of workers. This stricter postal law would apply to parcel companies with a minimum turnover of EUR 6.5 million per year or to parcel companies delivering a minimum of 1.1 million packets per year in Belgium. Why do you choose these thresholds? How many packing companies are eligible for this? Is there not a risk that packaging companies will split up into smaller companies? We have already heard this concern from the syndicates. The large parcel companies must work in stages towards a fixed employment rate of 80% if they fall within the set volume and turnover standards. What functions are included? Is it just about drivers and couriers or about all employees, for example warehousekeepers? Is it true that the temporary workers are included in your preliminary draft in the permanent workers' group? What timeline do you use for the new Postal Act? When will we be able to discuss this law in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are having a topical debate. This means that even members of political groups who have not yet taken the floor have the right to speak, either in favour of the Minister's reply or after the Minister's reply, as a reply. The latter applies, for example, to Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u7	Mr. Parent, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, the news is catching up with the heads of charges against the CEO of PostNL (human trafficking, leadership of a criminal organization, forgery in writing, illegal detachment of people, work in the black, employment of children). It's challenging and the word is weak. This is one of the realities of e-commerce that we have known for several months. You used expressions like far west, back in the 19th century. This model is unsustainable. I am pleased that justice has been able to act and conduct investigations. The urgency of regulation is not to be demonstrated. Things are moving. You have submitted the preliminary draft of the postal law for consultation via the IBPT. This consultation is necessary in so far as different comments have been expressed according to the sensitivities. Each member of the company must also be able to make observations in order to improve this text and provide Belgium with a framework that ensures healthy competition between operators and removes all the pressure exerted on work and on these companies. Indeed, the situation is not tenable. Minister, can you provide me with information on the timing of the consultation and the steps that will follow? We can also question the sustainability of PostNL's activities in our country. Have you had any contact on this matter or regarding the resumption of their services? Have you ever had any contact with the Minister of Economy on this hot topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have discussed this matter a number of times and my answers will be in line with what I said before. However, as you all point out, current events are catching up with us faster than we could have imagined. The questions I have received in advance will therefore try to answer more or less in a structured way. For example, there are questions about the impact of the new employment deal and the postal law on bpost's activities and on the whole postal package sector. Mrs Dewulf, I am talking first about the employment deal, then about the new postal law and finally about the non-additional price for fast deliveries and the ambitions of bpost. When it comes to whether the rules of the new employment deal also apply to bpost, the answer is very clear 'yes'. The following activities are included in the new law: the implementation of all logistical and support services linked to electronic commerce and movable property. So Bpost is also included in this. The private sector is subject to different rules than bpost, but thanks to the social dialogue within the joint committee, bpost has the same resources as the private sector, and the law on collective agreements, as you may know, does not apply to autonomous public enterprises. Bpost must therefore achieve this through working regulations. At this stage, Bpost does not in fact expect any significant changes in the terms of employment of distributors as a result of what was agreed in the employment deal. Of course, the work deal has an impact on the entire e-commerce sector, including the fullfilment or preparation of the packages and not just the distribution. When talking about sorting centres, it is the latter which often comes up in the discussions about Belgium's competitive position vis-à-vis abroad. As far as I am concerned, the problems of unfair competition in Belgium itself relate mainly to the so-called 'last mile', i.e. the delivery of the package between the sorting centre and the final customer. The social level playing field between the different e-commerce companies will therefore mainly result from the preliminary draft law amending the postal law, which you have all asked questions about. The explicit aim of that preliminary draft is, of course, to combat fraud and social dumping within the burden mile. That is exactly as we had already noted when deciding on the budget in October 2021. In other words, the scope of the preliminary draft is the delivery staff, not the sorters or other staff in the e-commerce chain. That is simply because the postal law can only relate to this piece. Indeed, the law will only apply to the largest players, namely the postal service providers who in the previous calendar year achieved a turnover of at least 6.5 million euros with the delivery of packages in Belgium, or have delivered at least 1.1 million packages in Belgium. It's about 20 companies. The aim of these thresholds is to target only suppliers who are large enough to run the risk of structural sub-contracting through small businesses, because we know that the problems usually occur there. In addition, these thresholds will enable parcel delivery workers with a contract of employment to be better represented by trade union representatives within the companies for which they work. After all, companies are often just small enough to have no need for union representation under the regulations. The obligation applies to all postal service providers operating directly or indirectly through subcontractors operating on the Belgian market, whether they are established in Belgium or in other Member States. This ensures that this obligation cannot be bypassed by, for example, a provider established in another Member State, but still delivers a lot of packages in Belgium. In order to avoid, Mrs Vindevoghel, that parcel companies split up in order not to have to meet the set standards, we have determined that turnover is calculated on a consolidated basis, taking into account each associated company within the meaning of Article 1:20 of the Code of Companies and Associations. The number of packages delivered by connected providers is thus also included. In other words, any group that delivers packages through different entities in Belgium will be considered as a whole for determining the field of application of the obligation. I can also confirm that the distribution of packages by temporary agency workers will be treated in the same way as the distribution by own employees of the postal service provider, because the deployment of temporary agency workers is regulated by the law of 24 July 1987, which ensures that the use of temporary agency work cannot or should not be a source of social and fiscal fraud. This also means that the use of temporary agency work is limited by its nature, including in duration, and that a postal service provider will not be able to use agency workers primarily for the distribution of packages. Before I go into the preliminary draft that we are preparing and what we are dealing with, I would like to add to Mr Freilich that today, in the postal law for the distribution of mail in Article 5, § 1, you will know that law, it is defined that every physical person carrying out the activity is presumed to have been employed on the basis of a contract of employment. You can say that this is a problem vis-à-vis the market and the free initiative. That's right. That is already the case for letter mail and we will extend it to package mail. That is precisely the instrument that the postal law gives us to reduce the risk of situations, as we have seen today. I understand that it may be somewhat an ideological debate whether we go along with it or not, but we believe that this is absolutely necessary and that it is not just social legislation and inspection that should ensure control and enforcement, but that we may be able to do something about this preventively. The postal law provides us with the instrument for this. As regards the status of the preliminary draft law amending the postal law, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications is currently preparing an economic impact assessment. On 11 March, the draft law and a number of questions were submitted, at my request, to a public consultation via the IBPT website. It seems to me important to have a public consultation with the sector and all the stakeholders to understand how we should proceed and what the effects and impact of the proposed change could be. All parties concerned will be able to respond and will have four weeks, until 6 April, to do so. Public consultation is not a mandatory formality. I decided to do it because it seemed appropriate to me. The comments we receive will be analyzed and, if necessary, incorporated into the draft legislation. I have also asked the Information and Social Research Service (SIRS) for an opinion. My goal is to finalize the file before or just after the summer. A political discussion will take place within the government and we will then present the draft to Parliament. In the meantime, my advisors have already consulted with the coalition partners. An informative inter-kabinets working group, already in December, explained the main lines of the draft. I would like to stress that the fight against social and tax fraud is a priority for the entire government, as confirmed in the government agreement. As I said, in the Budget Conclave in October 2021, we agreed to tackle social dumping and fraud in the parcel sector through the Postal Act. Mrs Dewulf, you are asking whether or not an additional price will be charged for rapid deliveries. I will repeat once again that, as a minister, I do not, nor will I, have the opportunity to intervene directly in the market price of the delivery of packets. I do think that the social and environmental costs of delivery of packages can be included in the price. The market itself will have to do so if we are to create the framework within which we set the standards to be met. It is my view that these costs can be reflected in prices throughout e-commerce, with it being logical that the most sustainable delivery is the cheapest. I think that is an obvious principle. When it is not so arranged, there is a problem, as in the current situation. However, I will not determine the price, the market must do so. Business models within this sector should, in principle, come up with this in their own right, as they do in other sectors. For example, an emergency consultation with a doctor costs more than a consultation by appointment in the long term. I find it strange that this does not apply to the delivery of packages. Finally, I have a word about the ambition of bpost to become the most sustainable and customer-oriented e-commerce logistics company. Last year, as you know, we concluded a charter of corporate social responsibility with bpost, which greatly increases the level of ambition of sustainability. bpost wants to achieve this through measures in different areas and with all available levers. I mention, but it is not limited to this, the choice of the distribution model, infrastructure, vehicles, energy sources, pricing policy, the definition of working conditions, training efforts and the promotion of diversity and inclusion. bpost has set its ambition to reduce CO2 emissions by 55%, in line with the scenario of a reduction of 1.5 degrees Celsius. To this end, virtually all the trucks available to Bpost will switch from diesel to alternative fuels, the insulation of the buildings will be addressed and the rest of the fleet of small and medium-sized cars and vans will be electrified by 2030. The electricity that bpost uses for its electric fleet will be green electricity. bpost also wants to continue to work customer-oriented. For that, it provides the launch of an app. Customers can also create personalized stamps. Those are all things that want to increase customer satisfaction. In the variable remuneration of people, customer satisfaction is also taken into account as an objective, so that is an important incentive. Bpost is also developing further initiatives with regard to companies. In 2022, for example, it created a digital environment for business customers to monitor and optimise the interactions with packages and thus better match the needs of SMEs. There are also initiatives like Each Case Online and Active Ants, which you know of course. I would like to add something about today's topicality: picking up and even holding up PostNL's CEO and his number two for the time being. Mr Freilich correctly stated that we cannot comment on the nature and accuracy of the accusations, but practices of trafficking in human beings go even further than 19th-century practices, because then trafficking in human beings had already been abolished, if I am not mistaken. I think that is very serious, but I cannot comment on exactly what has happened or about a particular company. For me, however, it is absolutely proof that there is something wrong with the way in which our e-commerce has been organised and that we have to rectify it. Once again, Mr Freilich, we have an instrument to regulate the market which will create a level playing field for all players on the Belgian market, from wherever they come. You have another question that refers to it, so we shall return to it. I believe that everyone who goes into this market segment should follow the same rules of the game. People must be employed in proper working and wage conditions and benefit from social protection. We are very often dealing with subcontracting which is located in a grey zone in terms of independence, false self-employment or employee status. This is a general problem in the platform economy. We can do something about this and the fastest possible way. Minister Dermagne is also working on that. The whole sector of e-commerce and platform economy regulation is a major task, so it will take a little more time. The question was asked whether we do that together. That's what we do together. We're on the same page, but I can go faster here. Current events constantly show that this is necessary, so I hope you will support me in finally setting the bar in that sector for all the players who are active in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u10	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that fraud will be dealt with, including the packages coming from abroad. I'm really curious about the postal bill, but I haven't heard exactly when it will come. There must be fair employment and a level playing field for every courier company. I'm looking forward to the postal bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u11	Madam Secretary, your proposal is disproportionate. I understand that this already exists today for the letter mail. Comparing the letter mail with the parcel mail is apples and pears compared. There's universal service. The problem is that competition is on the burden mile. You also mentioned the level playing field. The postmen of bpost now also take the packages, so what kind of level playing field is there? Your proposal is actually also in the hands of one company, namely bpost. bpost already has different preferential conditions today, which the whole sector does not have. Everyone must abide by the joint committee on road transport and logistics, except bpost. They have secret collective agreements that can't see the light of day. What you're doing is prepping bpost. Then we'll have a conflict of interest. After all, you are the Minister of Post, but you are also the Minister of Post. You just read a whole series of ambitions from bpost and it seemed like you were the spokesperson for bpost. How can you regulate the market with your current disproportionate proposal that is in the hands of bpost? I have already put this question in writing to the Prime Minister at the beginning of the legislature. I asked him whether the same person could be minister of a sector and also of that public undertaking in which we are majority shareholders. He said: "She," so you, "will do anything to prevent any possible conflict of interest. It will act as neutral as possible." There is a problem when the Prime Minister answers that you will do everything possible to be as neutral as possible. We both have a different ideological vision of approach. Europe will be absolutely against your proposal, which is also disproportionate. However, this can be discussed. Your proposal is in the hands of bpost. All these other companies are gonna lose money for that. You also know that there are secret collective agreements that even Members of Parliament do not have access to. I asked Bpost's CEO during the hearing last week whether this could be done behind closed doors. We must be able to judge whether or not there are preferential conditions here. I can only conclude that there is a clear problem at the moment. I would just like to comment on your statement about the platform economy - namely the couriers of Deliveroo, etc. - as this would take more time to resolve. Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed, we have tabled a legislative proposal to regulate the parcel sector and the courier sector through joint and several liability, and to tackle the social fraud that exists. The bill has been tabled, should you wish to follow us in this and resolve this as soon as possible. I would also like to address my fellow Members, since I received applause from the banks of the PS and PVDA at the presentation in De Kamer. The joint and several liability has proved effective in other sectors and also in Germany, where it has been proven that it works faster and better and does not cause problems with a possible conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u12	Madam Minister, unfortunately, the news does not tell us anything that we already know. But it illustrates to the extreme the unacceptable exploitation that exists in this sector, exploitation so often criticized and debated. If you allow me to use this metaphor, the news puts the smelly package under our noses. The charges against the person in charge of PostNL are very heavy: criminal organisation, trafficking in human beings, illegal detachment, falsification, etc. I believe that topicality will help you by giving weight to the arguments that will be developed in the context of the discussions that we will have. In any case, as far as we are concerned, we are looking forward to the debate on a bill. We understand that a political debate must take place. But I repeat that there is an urgent need for this. We have already had discussions with bpost, and we will soon receive trade union organisations. But both bpost management and unions have told us that they are waiting for politicians and government to work effectively to combat all forms of unfair and illegal practices. I think I can say that there is a real will to put in place legislation with a strong initiative that will restore order in this mechanism of human exploitation that actually recalls completely unacceptable nineteenth-century practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In view of the circumstances, I would like to insist on a certain urgency. We're hearing the same little whirlwind over and over again. We must ensure that a level playing field is quickly established. I agree with you that the postal law can be an instrument for making rapid progress in this area. Mr Freilich, you said that the same applies to the bicycle couriers and the transport sector. I agree with you that this is a matter of fair transport. People are not willing to pay a fair price for a fair transport. The government is working on a reversal of the burden of proof. A presumption of employeeship will be introduced. I also have a proposal myself on the tax peer-to-peer status of bicycle couriers. Madam Minister, I wonder whether the problem of parcel delivery is not better placed on the European agenda either. We recognize the companies that are allowed to operate here under certain conditions, but we also see that these companies are working on these rules over and over again. A colleague said we're returning to Daens' time. I'm from Aalst. I'm very sensitive to that. The social struggle is in my DNA, but it is as you say: this goes much further, because it is about criminal organisations and trafficking in human beings. At least in the 19th century it had already been abolished, although there were other abuses against which people had to rise, such as child labour, too long working days and an unfair wage. Madam Minister, quickly put an end to malpractice, preventative, through the amendment of the postal law and preferably before the summer rather than after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u14	Mr President, Minister, this is a sector that is making a great deal of profit. The sector has a lot of money. We see huge profits being made, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, huge social fraud. People are talking about trafficking in human beings. The unions call it modern slavery. I can't call what's happening there any different today. They've already been summoned, but just keep acting like nothing's going on. That's unbelievable. I read in De Standaard this morning about a McKinsey study, which shows that more than a third of parcels are not delivered in accordance with legislation and that this practice costs the Treasury hundreds of millions of euros. That is an important argument in itself, to make it clear that something must be done about these situations and that it cannot go on in this way. Of course, we do not want it to be an empty box. The box must be full and must ensure that exploitation is controlled. I spoke in plenary at the very beginning of the dossier. I recall that I noticed to you that there is a good example, namely a collective agreement at DHL International, which respects the 70/30 ratio. This means 70% permanent employees and the possibility of up to 30% sub-co's. I think that's an interesting basis. There are good practical examples. For example, Bpost works with its own staff. So there are good examples. We must use these examples to organise the postal law. I really hope that we can make rapid progress in this area so that people can work in good working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to thank you for your answers. It is a very serious situation, even quite amazing, knowing that in December 2021 there was a raid and that measures were taken against PostNL but also against DPD colleagues. Nevertheless, there is perseverance in anger. Today it appears that such practices are still being continued. I'm very happy. I would like to follow Mrs Vanrobaeys on this point, who said that the prosecutor who is acting against these practices and the services that are acting against them and doing good work in this area may also be praised. That can certainly be said. In any case, it is clear that the price pressure on the parcel market and e-commerce is enormous. We have discussed the endless series of free returns and the pressure to deliver each day or within a few hours. We should be asking ourselves whether we could push that market a little bit in the right direction. The margins are under pressure so that the limits are exceeded. Bpost has been complaining about the level playing field for a long time. Measures are certainly necessary. Fraud and social dumping in this sector must be combated. We fully support you in that. Self-employment and the platform economy come around the corner. We need to look at all this in detail, including in the field of subcontracting. However, I do not share Mrs Vindevoghel's view, which puts virtually all subcontractors together and states that subcontracting by definition means fraud and abuse. That's a bridge too far. Moreover, the parcel market fluctuates so strongly with, for example, huge peaks around the holidays and much less packages in the summer season that some flexibility within that market is also needed. So we need to look closely at what standards and limits we apply. It was the right approach to ask the sector for input for the adjustments to the Postal Act. We look forward to the results of this input. We can then come to good regulation, which hopefully can prevent fraud and social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u16	Madam Secretary, the subject is not new. We have already had a debate on it twice in this committee with the Minister and with the CEO of Bpost. I'll just read the questions and skip the introduction. What will you do to ensure that newspaper shops can continue financially without having to rely on the sale of gambling products? Can we broaden the scope of newspaper shops and explore what possibilities there are? Will there also be slot machines in Ubiway Retail's newspaper stores, where there are currently none? Do you have data on the number of vending machines per store? How will you stop a further expansion in the newspaper stores? Will the newspaper stores also wear the name Golden Palace? A kind of addendum has been added to the sales contract. Are there any provisions regarding the number of slots or the name? I'm still surprised that management hasn't pulled the emergency brake at any time. It is not entirely clear to me at what stage of the sales process it became clear to management that there was only one candidate buyer, Golden Palace. Why didn't anyone ask the question that was a good idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u17	Madam Minister, at the very interesting hearing on 15 March, Mrs Hanard said that the reasons why you were not aware of the sale of Ubiway were the lack of a legal framework for such a decision, as well as the autonomy of bpost. We often ask questions about decisions, figures and policy plans, but unfortunately we often get a non-answer, because of the autonomy of bpost and because the public body is listed on the stock exchange. This information, at least as shown by the answers given by your cabinet, would be detrimental to the operation of the company as this information cannot be disclosed. First of all, I would like to point out that a company owned by the Belgian State is still a public undertaking. This means that, as citizens' representatives, we can request policies and figures at our will, and we must also get an effective response, without the company being able to hide behind all kinds of reasons. It is also striking that journalists do receive answers and not the representatives of the people and that even you, as the competent minister, were not aware of such a wide-ranging decision within the post. Do you intend to sit with Mrs. Hanard to find the best solution? Can we expect a new legal framework? What are your expectations? What is your position on the non-answers received from your cabinet? Will you change the autonomy in that respect? In what way do you see this feasible and within what timeframe? In the meantime, have you had any discussions with your delegate on the board of Bpost? If yes, how come you weren't aware of the sale of Ubiway? If not, are you still planning to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u18	Madam Secretary, it is indeed about selling Ubiway Retail to Golden Palace. We have questioned you on several occasions, including during the plenary session of 27 January 2022. I seem to recall that at that time you indicated that Bpost's autonomy allowed such decisions to be made without having to inform anyone. That's a quote from you. The chairman of the board of directors of bpost, Ms. Hanard, stated something else at the hearing last week. She stated that bpost should not even inform, as the FSMA imposes different rules on bpost. That is why I have the following question. You say they shouldn't do it, but they were allowed to do it, since the sale was below a certain amount. However, I hear from Mrs Hanard that they were not allowed to do so and could not have any knowledge of it either. How come we hear two different things here? Is that two different things? At least it came across that way. You should have told me it wasn't your fault, because they shouldn't have told you. I never heard that, though that's a good answer. When I asked you why you didn't stop selling, you didn't answer me that bpost shouldn't tell you at all and have kept to it. I haven't heard that answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u19	Mr Freilich, I will come back to what you said at the end. After all, I have explained what I should and should not be told. However, I would like to thank the speakers for the follow-up questions on the Saga Golden Palace. Mr Van den Bergh, I will begin with your questions on the profitability of newspaper shops and the evolution of the number of slot machines. After that, I will explain to Mrs Dewulf the role of bpost as an autonomous publicly traded company and the non-answers of my cabinet. Then I will answer the questions about the sales process, which you both asked questions about, as well as the questions about the rules on insider dealing, which Mr Freilich referred to. Mr Van den Bergh, the question about the profitability of newspaper shops is a very pertinent question. The revenues of these stores today come from a diverse pallet of products and services, namely newspapers, magazines, gambling products, stamps, drinks and small food products. The shops, as you know, are sometimes also a pick-up point for packages. Part of the revenue comes from post- and parcel-related activities. You will understand that the economic model of the newspaper shops is not within my competence, let alone that I have the power to support that activity in some form. The collection of packages at these pick-up points is an important focus in the context of the sustainability of the postal sector and e-commerce. These kinds of removal points will also increase in the future and will not disappear directly from the revenue model of the newspaper shops. Ubiway Retail has 94 stores with one or more slot machines, even before the deal. That is the situation as it was in the past. In total, there are 140 of those vending machines. 78 stores don't have a vending machine. In order to be able to put a new vending machine in such a newspaper shop, there is a whole procedure that has to be validated by the Gaming Commission. The conditions for the operation of slot machines have actually recently been tightened up by the competent Minister of Justice, in a new KB, which includes a number of cumulative conditions that must be met in order to consider wagering as an additional activity. For example, a maximum of EUR 250,000 can be deployed annually. Those newspaper shops must also obtain at least 200 different press titles with a turnover of at least 25,000 euros. In the past, some of those fake newspaper stores only had a few newspapers a few years old in the display case. Mr Van Quickenborne also testified about this. As far as the activities of newspaper shops are concerned, therefore, the KB is making a sharper effort. In addition, the mayor can also give his advice. This is all part of the assessment by the Gaming Commission, in order to allow, if necessary, that additional activity. That is the legal framework and we must also operate within that framework after the transfer to Golden Palace. With regard to the autonomy of listed public companies such as bpost and the communication to their custody minister, the government has said that it will be able to ensure in the government agreement that public companies should be able to reconcile the desired competitiveness and exemplary function. They must be competitive in the market, but they also have an exemplary role to play. A government acting as an informed, active shareholder is internationally recognised as good governance. In this context, there are OECD guidelines for public enterprises to be followed. Listed public companies, in this case Proximus and bpost, read the coalition agreement every day, take it to heart and take their example very seriously. I'm watching that closely, too. The examples are many, I have already mentioned them. Proximus helps to narrow the digital divide. The example role that bpost plays when it comes to the sustainability of the parcel sector. They have both also made efforts to assist victims of the conflict in Ukraine. These are examples of this, and we are looking closely at them. A number of recent decisions and communications by such companies have already been discussed here and are being discussed again today. They bring us to the understanding that the Minister of Public Enterprises does not always have the necessary levers to play the role she deserves, that is to say, me. We were confronted with this in the case of Golden Palace. We are looking at how to remedy this, and we are doing so in consultation with Mr Tirez and Mrs Hanard. We do the same at Proximus, because it will of course apply to both companies. Whichever slope we choose, it will also have to be in line with the directives on good governance. This brings us to Mr Freilich's point, namely insider dealing under the Market Abuse Regulation, which provides for equal treatment of shareholders and also the autonomy of public undertakings, which is based on this. Mrs Dewulf, that brings me to the fact that people are not entitled to more information than minority shareholders because they have 51% of the shares. There are very strict rules for that. I cannot therefore say that the State is a majority shareholder and must therefore have more knowledge of certain information than the minority shareholders. We must ensure that this is done. I'll come back to what we're up to later. As for bpost and Ubiway, someone asked about the details of everything that happened. I have already discussed this at length, but I would be happy to do so again. I have, of course, already had many contacts with the CEO and the chairman of the Management Board on the dossier and its follow-up. I myself and my cabinet were not aware of the sale in advance, as it falls under the delegation of power of the Management Board. There is an internal regulation of bpost, the "Delegation of Powers Policy" As early as December 2020, the Board of Directors gave a unanimous delegation to the management to appoint an investment banker, contact any buyers and obtain bids on Ubiway Retail. For your information, the composition of the Board of Directors has changed very thoroughly in the summer of 2021. In September 2021, within the delegation given to the management, there were two binding offers, as called. The names of the final buyer and of another candidate buyer were submitted to the Administrative Board's Audit Committee in November 2021. At that time, the final buyer was not the buyer of preference. I can't reconstruct anything I wasn't there with, but maybe that can explain the non-response of the directors present in the audit committee. The buyer of preference withdrew at the very end and the management then continued with the remaining candidate, Golden Palace, in accordance with the mandate of the audit committee and then concluded the negotiations. I would like to make a personal comment. Given the ethical dimension of the dossier, a prior exchange of views with the directors might have been considered and appropriate. On 27 December 2021, the sales agreement was signed, subject to a number of suspensive conditions, which were subsequently fulfilled on 28 February 2022. At that time, the rounding was either.... or closing as it is The suspensive conditions and the obligations of closing were fulfilled. Mr Freilich, you are asking how a no-surprise clause would have been possible, because that is the direction in which we think that would have been helpful if, according to the Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA), the sale of Ubiway should not have been communicated to the Minister for Public Enterprises. So if I said from my point of view that bpost didn't have to tell me, then bpost says that it shouldn't even tell me. I don't think there's any falsehood or contradiction in terms. I asked why they didn't tell me, and the answer was that the company was listed, that it might point to insider trading and violate the rules of the FSMA. I have, of course, raised my mind about this at the FSMA. Perhaps interesting to know is that under Article 7 of the European Market Abuse Regulation, the sale of a subsidiary, even if the transaction is not yet final, can be regarded as insider dealing. So we agree on that: what bpost wanted to do with Ubiway would have been foreknowledge. However, the FSMA told me that Article 10 of the same regulation provides for an exception to the sharing of insider information with third parties if this is done in the context of the normal exercise of the work, the profession or the function, as is the case for a Minister of Public Enterprises here. According to the FSMA, therefore, Article 10 allows an exception to the regulation, which might have enabled me to obtain that information, but on listed companies, of course, there is an obligation to keep a permanent and a temporary insider list of persons who have access to insider information, on which the name of the Minister for Public Enterprises would be attached. That is the direction of thought we are discussing with bpost and Proximus, and we still need to see how we anchor it further. Was I supposed to know or not? Depending on who says it, there may be different interpretations. We want to eliminate any ambiguity surrounding that point in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u20	Mr President, Minister, it was good to go over every step and see how everything went. I remain a little hungry when it comes to the consequences of the addendum, for example with regard to extra or new vending machines in the newspaper shops concerned. You refer to the legal framework. The royal decree is intertwined. That is a good thing, but I understand implicitly that nothing is included in the addendum and that it merely stipulates that the core business of the newspaper shops, namely selling newspapers and the like, must be preserved. With regard to the possible name, you did not make any statements. Of course, that is not your competence, I assume the buyer has the choice. However, I would regret it if all the newspaper shops in the village or district statue were given the name of gambling palaces. I'd be very sorry to hear that. That's why I asked that question. If you can't answer that, I'll understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am glad to hear that there are discussions between you, the CEO and Mrs Hanard and that there will be an agreement so that no unexpected things happen anymore, such as the sale of newspaper shops to a gambling company. I'm curious what will come of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. You say there is no contradiction between what you said and what the chairman of the board of directors of bpost said. I didn't say there was a contradiction. However, I would say that much criticism would have been spared if you had said that from the beginning. Perhaps your cabinet should have made it clear to you that you shouldn't have known. You cited the European directive and the FSMA. Articles 7 and 10 state that you may know if you are on that list. I'm surprised you don't insist. As Minister for Public Enterprises, you should normally be on that list, and I was almost sure that this was the case, because last year you did communicate about the sale of another subsidiary of bpost, namely bpost bank. You have communicated about this and we have been able to debate it with you. You said what you thought about it. Given your communication about a subsidiary of bpost, I've assumed that, according to Article 10, you are on that list. After the sale to Ubiway, that does not appear to be the case. The difference between these two is perhaps for another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister must leave at 4 p.m. There are still a dozen questions on the order of the day. I see two possibilities for achieving the objective of dealing with all the questions this afternoon. A first possibility is the conciseness of the speakers and the Minister. Secondly, I would like to point out that you can refer to the written text of your questions, so that we can win a few minutes in each question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u24	Mr President, I choose the first option, but I will try to be concise. Madam Secretary, we live in digital times. We all have a phone, a smartphone, which we're all slaves to. We all find them so easy. They come with a number of advantages, but also with disadvantages. We're gonna need cables. We're gonna need cell towers. They need to be placed. A cell tower will be placed in Koksijde-Dorp, but there is a lot of peculiarity around it. I'm trying to get a better idea of how that works. In 2019 there has already been an application. Proximus absolutely wanted a cell tower there, but that died silently. It's still mysterious. The city council doesn't want to reveal exactly why that happened. Then the cell tower was removed, but now the cell tower has to get there quickly. Why do we have to do this so fast? The city council could have prepared the population for that. Is it just that piste being searched or all possible locations? The city council says they've been looking at different options. Proximus would have told them that this mast can only be placed in one place, namely in that particular place in Koksijde-Dorp. That all seems a little weird to me. After all, I can't see those simulations. I can't see the files. Hopefully you will be able to give us the transparency that seems to us to be lacking locally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u25	Mr Loones, my answer is comprehensive and technical, but it appears necessary to provide an adequate answer to his question. In 2019, the application for a higher transmission system was not stopped due to a negative opinion given in the TACAN study, the Tactical Air Navigation Systems study, and also taking into account the sports and parachute jump guidelines. The study stated that the initially proposed level was not possible. In the current application, at a lower level, a response was provided through a positive TACAN study and met the aspirations for the search and rescue assignments of Defence. In 2019 it was about a mast of more than 40 m, now it is about a mast of 34,5 m. With the ASTRID antenna this gives a total height of 37.84 m. This bundles and replaces the installation of Proximus and Orange at the fire station and the current combined ASTRID-Telenet pyloon of 30 meters, plus about eight meters for the ASTRID antenna. The total height of this combined ASTRID-Telenet-Proximus pyloon is lower than the existing ASTRID-Telenet pyloon at the same sports park. The existing mast, which is positioned closer to the street side, disappears after the creation of the new, more centrally located on the site, pyloon that is part of the application for a Proximus environmental permit. The position of the pylon as requested by Proximus is an answer to the proposed implantation, in consultation with the municipality of Koksijde. Given the height of ASTRID at the current pylon and the minimum height required, it is not appropriate to provide multiple pylons with different operators. The Flemish Telecom Code stipulates that, where possible, preference should be given to a bundling of transmission and reception equipment. Proximus' application meets this with the bundling of Proximus, Telenet and ASTRID. The Church of Saint Peter in Koksijde-Dorp is not an option, since the church protected as a monument falls outside the zone from which cover can be offered to Koksijde-Dorp, a purely technical matter. Moreover, the bundling of the ASTRID transmission and reception system is also not possible at this church because of the nature of the antennae. From a topographic point of view and because of the required construction height, there are actually not enough high structures that are central enough to cover Koksijde village. Of course, the application dossier also takes into account the current active military base, from the point of view of TACAN and SAR studies. They are actually even more restrictive than they are for civil aviation. Even after a possible transfer from the military base, there is still no record of when that would happen. Of course, air traffic remains possible. The local sports flies and parachute jumping can still take place, so there is no possibility of setting up high structures on a climbing and landing runway, whether shortened or not. I hope I have answered you in sufficient detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u26	A great deal of extra information, Madam Secretary. That the cell towers are bundled, first of all, I think a good approach. This way we can centralize things and reduce the nuisance. That's definitely okay. Secondly, thank you for the answers on the specific location, the church and the military base. I do not think that they have actually been examined as pistes for more general reasons, for legal reasons, and that they have not been considered for radiation standards and transmission range reasons. That's the answer I get all the time at the local level, that the best level of coverage is there at that location. I hear from you a slightly different answer, which can be supplemented later. Above all, I have noticed that you are talking about the insertion at the site proposed by the municipality. That may be where the stinger sits and the responsibility can be specifically found.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u27	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u28	Mrs Dewulf, 30 to 50% of the Flemish new building houses now have a parcel mailbox, usually with a letter box to also bus the letters. This means that 14,000 new parcel mailboxes are placed each year in Flanders, especially in new homes. The numbers are increasing exponentially. In total, there were 35,000 parcel mailboxes by the end of 2021 and probably even an understatement. The use of parcel mailboxes naturally reduces the number of missed home deliveries of packages. The ecological aspect and the sustainability aspect are important to me. Especially in rural areas, the parcel mailbox can be an interesting solution. In cities, this could be solved differently, for example with pick-up points. After all, the distance for people to pick up packages is smaller there. So we should rather encourage people in rural areas to install a parcel mailbox than people in the city. A first step to do this from the point of view of policy is to create a legal framework, so that it is clearly defined what a parcel mailbox should look like. Together with the BIPT, a draft KB has been drawn up which was in public consultation until 21 March and will be discussed in the government after we have processed the comments in the course of April. We believe that this framework will be an advantage for the entire postal sector. So it has nothing to do with bpost, which is also not responsible for encouraging or not encouraging parcel mailboxes. The draft KB also states that bpost should not exercise any control over it. Let's get that straight. Postal operators also do not need to deliver in packet mailboxes that are not in conformity with the design KB. For apartment and business buildings there is another system. For this there are lockers, which can be used by residents or employees. They are usually located in an entrance hall and cannot be assigned to a particular user. There is no bus number on it and they do not fall within the scope of the draft KB that we are preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u29	Madam Secretary, the more homes and apartment buildings have such parcel mailboxes, the better. That's easier for the postmen, especially now that people are ordering more online.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u31	Mrs Dewulf, Ada, the new innovation and expertise centre of Proximus, which will start in April, has three objectives. Firstly, Ada will serve all companies of the Proximus group in Belgium and internationally to find solutions and provide expertise in the development of tomorrow's products and services. Initially, 50 people are going to work, but by the end of the year it will go up to 90. Secondly, Ada wants to become a reference centre in the areas of digital technology, artificial intelligence and cyber security. Ada will do so through collaboration with universities and research institutes. The aim is to attract talent from competent motivated people who will contribute to shaping the digital future and data management in this sector. Thirdly, in the medium and long term, Ada also wants to become a reference centre within Europe, i.e. working internationally with different partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u33	Madam Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u34	Mr Freilich, we are talking about the fines imposed on bpost as a result of its dominant or alleged dominant position on the market. Before I go into that, I would like to explain the long legal process to which the press articles to which you refer relate. It concerns a question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Belgian Marktenhof to the Court of Justice of the European Union, on which a reply was received last week. I suppose I should not explain the Marktenhof and the concept of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. It is in my answer, but you are undoubtedly aware of it. Prior to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, the Court of Appeal annulled the decision of the BIPT of 2011 and of the Competition Authority of 2012 to impose fines on Bpost. It concerns EUR 2.6 million and EUR 37 million respectively. Owning this procedure, Bpost paid both fines, but the fine of EUR 2.6 million imposed by BIPT was now recovered and returned to Bpost. The Court of Appeal did not consider bpost's pricing practice to be discriminatory. For the second fine of EUR 37 million imposed by the Competition Authority, the Competition Authority decided to refer the case back to the Marktenhof, with the result of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. That's the history. The point of reference for a preliminary ruling is about the interpretation of the non bis in idem, which is the principle that one cannot be punished twice for the same fact. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that a second prosecution for the same acts is not necessarily prohibited, but only when strict conditions are applied or when those conditions are met. It is now up to the court of appeal to give a final ruling on this matter. I'll give you the facts, too. It was not the offer of discounts to senders of large volumes of mail that was considered problematic in 2011, but the introduction of a discount per sender by bpost in 2010. The volume discount was therefore calculated on the basis of the volumes submitted separately by each sender, not on the basis of the consolidated volumes via an intermediary. That system for calculating volume discounts was amended in 2011 following the BIPT decision and has never been re-implemented. The BIPT and the Belgian Competition Authority did not contest the system of postal discounts for bpost after that. So that case is a thing of the past. This trial has nothing to do with the way bpost organises the distribution and does not question it. Nor does it alter the fact that I think it is important that the delivery of packages is done in a socially responsible and sustainable way. So this case has no influence whatsoever on my political agenda either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u35	Mr. Chair, Minister, the workers at the Plenesses Sorting Centre have learned that they will be affected by a reorganisation of work and teams, which will result in the closure of nine services. This decision was announced on the occasion of a press release to the trade union organizations on Friday, March 18. The reason given is Amazon's new policy, which has decided to embark on the internalization of its distribution. Learning bad news like this is never pleasant. It is even less so in a post-covid context, post-flooding in my particularly affected region, while the energy crisis is in full swing as well as the inflation it generates. The reaction was therefore predictable and quite understandable: a strike picket, which brought together a hundred worried agents, was set up in the early hours of 21 March. In practice, some 10 jobs appear to be affected by the measures taken. No dry layoffs, of course, but travel to other sites where there is a shortage of staff. However, this could lead to more work on the plenesses' zoning side, which is also a source of concern on the spot. Minister, do you confirm this reorganization? How do you justify it? How do you respond to the concerns of the workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u36	Madam Minister, I agree with the debate out of respect for the workers involved. This morning, I got a call from activists. Employees are not only concerned about their jobs, but also about the workload. The removal of 9 of the 110 rounds would prolong the duration of the remaining rounds by at least 45 minutes and thus significantly increase the workload. In addition, the trade unions complain that Amazon's presence reduces the number of parcel deliveries. Is there indeed a reorganisation, as the workers fear? If so, what will be the consequences? People don't talk about direct dismissals, but maybe it has an effect on the workload. Do you agree with the trade unions' complaint that, due to unfair competition, Amazon significantly reduced the number of parcels in the mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Bonaventure, mevrouw Vindevoghel, as you know, the market for letters, the historical activity of bpost, is in structural decline and this contrasts with the strong growth of the parcel market where bpost operates in a very competitive environment. In order to ensure the future of the company and the employment of its many employees, bpost must constantly reorganise its activities, which it intends to do in a socially responsible manner. The break in work in the distribution centre of Les Plenesses is part of the wider context. Rumors of an imminent reorganisation have led to spontaneous action. The operational management of the distribution centre explained to the staff that the company needed to be able to cope flexibly with large fluctuations in the quantity of packages, both on a weekly basis and on a seasonal basis. That need was accentuated by the decision of a large customer to deliver a large part of his packages himself. The operational management also indicated the precise elements of the reorganisation of the services and also underlined the willingness of the company to reorganise without redundancies. Social dialogue will thus continue in the context of the company's dialogue and consultation practices. Indeed, nine people will be reassigned to other sites to carry out this reorganization in a responsible and socially balanced manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I was with the bpost workers at the Plenesses this morning. They decided to extend the strike at the beginning of the week. The next consultation will take place tomorrow. Their hopes are great: they need to be reassured about their future and the security of their long-term employment. Madam Minister, I will remain attentive to developments in the situation of bpost workers, and I know that you will also be.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u39	Workers' concerns are high. That is why the actions are being extended. Above all, they want stability. We must be able to imagine what it means in concrete terms when the round changes and suddenly they have to go to a very different place. A single mom with daughter, for example, testifies to how they have worked enormously with other workers throughout the pandemic and have continued to work, while suddenly dropping them, the public service is no longer important and workers are no longer taken into account. For her, changing rounds means a complete change in her life. That's not a bad thing. Hopefully the board will listen carefully to the staff to respond to their concerns and questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u40	As a result of price increases on the pump again, workers are having a very hard time. Last week I heard on an action from the ABVV where I was present how some people had to call in sick or sleep in their car, because they can no longer pay the transport costs. It is obvious that bpost workers, who do not have such a high wage, do early shiftwork and therefore cannot use public transport, are concerned about their petrol costs. In what way will public companies, Proximus and Bpost, meet the increased fuel prices? Do public enterprises fully repay commuting?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u41	I will review by public authority what they do in terms of fuel and reimbursement of commuting. At Proximus some employees have a company car, others do not. For those who have a company car at their disposal, the mobility budget is fixed. That's independent of the fuel price. For workers who have to travel many kilometres, there is even a kind of unlimited fuel subscription. This is, of course, offset by the mobility budget, but the fuel price is also relatively neutral. Of course, there is also a great deal of flexibility with regard to alternatives to cars. It promotes green mobility, for example the use of the train, even for those who have a pay car. Proximus is looking for solutions for employees without a salary car. Of course, some political measures were taken. In any event, workers receive public transport allowances and bicycle fees. Depending on the profile, other options can be suggested. Proximus does not make a financial contribution to the fuel consumption of commuting for workers who drive a private car to work. The administrative buildings are all close to a station, which can be an incentive to use public transport. Moreover, the company recalls that salaries were indexed in October, February and April. As a logistics company, Bpost of course also suffers the consequences of the increase in fuel prices and has taken a number of measures. Firstly, Bpost raised the compensation for travel for service purposes with the personal vehicle to the maximum permitted amount. In addition, the non-recurrent bonus will be paid in March instead of in April. The psychosocial service is ready to provide support to workers who are facing real financial problems. Bpost also offers the services of vzw Actisoc to help people with financial problems. Anyone with one year's seniority may make use of a repayable aid up to a maximum of 500 euros, which is made available without interest costs and must be reimbursed after a maximum of 12 months. Finally, Bpost reimburses the costs of moving to and from the workplace. That was established by the Joint Committee. The allowance for travel by personal vehicle or car-pooling varies depending on whether or not it is a motorised personal vehicle. It is a daily allowance per day worked. For a mixed car and bike journey, the distances are calculated and reimbursed separately. The reimbursement of travel expenses is tax-free up to a certain limit. For journeys by bicycle, the fee is always exempt from taxes. Bpost also wants to take further initiatives to strengthen car-pooling, allowing for higher remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u42	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u43	Mrs Vindevoghel, you understand that I think it is very important that bpost can work economically, socially and ecologically sustainably. The CEO has come to the committee to explain that the postal market is evolving rapidly and thoroughly. Letter volumes will fall, packet volumes will rise and competition will increase, we are constantly talking about this. With regard to the current industrial sorting centres in Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi, Ghent and Liège, bpost constantly looks at how they can optimise their functioning in changing market conditions. These sites are all geographically optimally distributed across the territory and are a backbone for the logistics network of bpost. The company will continue to make maximum use of this network. In concrete terms, this means that bpost will continue to invest in the preparation activities of letters and packages to compensate for lower volumes of letters through new activities. At the same time as the increasing volumes of packages, the sorting of packages also accounts for a greater share of activity and place in these centres. Letters of course fall proportionally both in used area and in volume and activities in favour of parcel activities. We know that. Basically, the five centres will certainly continue to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u44	I asked about the number of employees. Do you have any idea? That was the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u45	We'll get you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u46	Mr Freilich, I am working with Secretary of State Michel and the ministers Vandenbroucke and Dermagne to adapt the eBox bill. One of the adjustments could be the possibility for providers of a qualified electronic registered shipping service to send a notification to citizens who consent through the eBox that an electronic registered shipment is available on their platform. It is expected that this will increase the use of these types of shipments, but we must also always pay attention to those who are not in favour of digital evolution. We will, but overall, I fully support this evolution and will support this legislative amendment. It is not for me to define the commercial strategy of an autonomous State. Bpost follows the market and the developments and evolution of customer expectations. The company also informed me that improving customer experience for both the sender and the recipient is a priority. As far as these registered shipments are concerned, bpost improves the paper version by supplementing them with hybrid applications, such as Sign For Me or QuickStamp. The experiences of both senders and receivers are positive in this respect. I refer to my answer to the written question No. 394 by Mrs Dewulf, in which I have already provided more information on these services. There are also several projects under development which will be launched in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We know that bpost is completely autonomous, but there is the management contract that you can push in a certain direction. I expect you to make your point about that. You're Secretary of State for Green. A registered shipment is quite green as no letter should be printed and carried around anymore. I hope that we can read more about this in the next management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u48	I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u49	Mr Freilich, we have already talked about this once, so I shall go further. Your question concerns the content of the research at the time. The reimbursement of an amount of EUR 417 million relates to the overcompensation granted through the management contracts between Bpost and the State. Since 2012, of course, new management contracts have been concluded. They follow the procedures, including the notification to the European Commission, which subsequently closely monitors the Belgian State's state aid to Bpost. You also asked about the different staff regulations. I would like to remind you that the employer of statutory employees must assume the burden of pay for periods of non-employment due, for example, to personal illness or occupational diseases and accidents at work. The employer's contributions and the personal social security contributions payable for the employment of statutory employees are therefore lower than those applicable to employees on a contract of employment. Bpost therefore does not enjoy a social security benefit if it takes into account the costs of social security contributions and the costs to be borne directly by Bpost and must be financed in the context of the incapacity of statutory staff. That is often not included in the calculation exercise. If one calculates it, it's the same thing. In 2012, the European Commission also reached that conclusion, which is why a new investigation would not be a measure of good governance. Indeed, the circumstances have not changed fundamentally since 2012.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u50	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic745x.u51	It always seems impossible until it's done. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation.
