ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u1	Mr President, I would like to refer to the questions I have put to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u2	Mrs. Van Peel is still on her way. Mr. De Smet isn't here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u3	The questions concern Ukrainian refugees and their follow-up, in particular in the context of trafficking in human beings, exploitation and screening. With this situation, the people who follow us in another way know what we are talking about today. The majority of refugees from Ukraine come by train. Upon arrival at the Zuidstation they will be followed by the SNCB and the Railway Police, from where they will be directed to the registration centre in Palace 8 on the Heizel Brussels Expo. For this purpose STIB puts in shuttle buses. The Red Cross and Bruss'Help are responsible for the surroundings of those people on the run. A minority of refugees arrive by car. For them parking is provided immediately near the registration centre. Around the centre the local police of the zone Brussels Capital of Ixelles are responsible for general supervision and as far as necessary also for crowdcontrol. The services of Fedasil and the DVZ provide the reception and registration. There is also cooperation on the ground with a private security company. The normal shuttle service of Palace 8 runs from 8.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. The persons on the flight who register at the Zuidstation between 6.30 p.m. and 22.00 p.m. will be transferred to other shelters. This is also done with STIB buses. Of course, the whole of the involved police force is being sensitised to be vigilant about the situation of refugees from Ukraine, especially for all women and children. The aim is to detect suspicious situations as soon as those persons arrive in Belgium and to offer appropriate police and judicial follow-up. The coordination of the various actors involved in the reception of those persons on the flight is organised within COFECO. This is chaired by the Director of the National Crisis Centre. The various competent departments at the level of the federal government, but also of the federated entities, are represented in COFECO. There is regular consultation with the provincial governors, which seems logical to me. A working group was set up specifically with regard to screening and possible abuse of persons on the run. The working group led to the adoption of a circular on 18 March concerning the control of prospective host families wishing to flee. It was signed by both the Minister of Justice, which some committee members will be pleased to note, as well as by the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and, of course, myself. A task force on trafficking in human beings was also set up by the Minister of Justice. You have also seen that the day before yesterday he and colleagues from neighbouring countries, the Vendôme ministers, sent out a communication. The circular of 18 March takes note of the opinion of the Police Information Review Body (PIB), which was issued on 11 March. The COC considered that there was no legal provision for a systematic or undifferentiated prior police check of applicants for accommodation. This was the starting point of our work on this circular. In order to ensure the safety of these fugitives in the places where they will be welcomed, the circular provides for a check of the criminal record of the applicants hosting them, which will be carried out on the basis of their consent. Thus, in order for an accommodation application to be taken into account, candidates will have to provide the municipality with an extract of the criminal record of each of the adults residing at that address or authorize the person designated for that purpose by the mayor to consult directly with the municipality. Pre-verification of certain types of particularly serious infringements will therefore take place at the level of the municipality. With regard to the police services, the circular provides that, within the framework of their usual competence, they shall carry out the checks and investigations deemed necessary on the basis of the information brought to their attention or of the facts found to indicate a risk to the safety of persons at risk and shall inform the competent administrative police and judicial police authorities of the results of such checks. On info-ukraine.be a specific heading is included to raise awareness of the risks of abuse on the flight from Ukraine. Contact information on national centres for trafficking in human beings is also available. In addition, an information brochure is given to all those who register in Brussels to point out the risks to them. Of course, all information channels are used to inform the people on the flight themselves directly. These two approaches, both proactive – through screening – and reactive – through home control by the police, ensure the protection of people fleeing Ukraine while respecting the fundamental rights of Belgian citizens who wish to make their accommodation available to fugitives. So far we have some indications on our territory of possible exploitation of persons fleeing Ukraine by individuals or criminal groups. We have to be careful. It is not in all cases very specific and concrete facts, but it goes without saying that all the facts that are noted for follow-up are reported to the central human trafficking/trafficking service of the federal judicial police. The federal judicial police are also part of the Human Trafficking Task Force, which was compiled by the Minister of Justice. It seems logical to me that we should join forces to ensure a proper follow-up. Only 20% ask for reception through the regular channels provided by the government. That percentage has fallen a little bit, not quite different from what we see in other places. Many people find a place via their own channels or via Facebook groups. In order to be able to get an A-card to the municipality, one has to give an address. In this way, a form of registration and follow-up is possible, so that the judicial authorities and the local police units concerned can do their job. In addition, the federal judicial police also carried out a risk analysis to assess the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on the security situation in our country. The FGP took particular account of the fact that, to date, the largest number of people fleeing Ukraine are women and/or children, and sometimes even minors without the assistance of adults, which may result in an increased risk of trafficking in human beings. This is known to all appearances, such as sexual exploitation and abuse of domestic work or the healthcare sector. We must be aware of that. It is therefore essential that all the services of the judicial police and the integrated police respond in a coordinated manner. The FGP must therefore pay particular attention to the possible phenomena or situations of trafficking in human beings. This is one of the tasks of both the FGP and the central level, namely the Human Trafficking Task Force, for imaging, but also for involving the judicial authorities for possible prosecution, and of course also for promoting the flow of information. All services must work together. In addition, the local police carry out their normal duties and control of the residence, but certainly also investigates, through intervention and community action, whether there are situations that indicate a possible form of abuse. The DJSOC Anti-Smuggling and Trafficking Unit collects information on trafficking and trafficking in human beings, sexual or economic abuse and illegal adoptions involving persons fleeing Ukraine communicated to it by the police or its partners. The request was made to all integrated police units and various partners, including organizations assisting victims of trafficking in human beings, to pay particular attention to the phenomenon and to report any indication of a suspicious situation. For police units, this happens via an internal flow of information. For other organisations dealing with victims of human trafficking such as Payoke, Pag-Asa, Sürya, the Aliens Office is a contact point and transmits the information to the relevant police service. In any case, the aim is to obtain a centralised overview of all national, but certainly international, operational information on the problem, so that it can be provided to the competent judicial authorities, but also to local authorities and local police areas. In the districts of Antwerp, Brussels and Liège, about seven hundred investigators are currently engaged in the fight against the various forms of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. They will also be involved in the management of Ukrainian refugees. In the above-mentioned circular of 18 March, it is specified that any person who has been designated by a competent authority to intervene in the accommodation or accompaniment of persons fleeing Ukraine is required to report to the police services any facts indicating a risk to the physical integrity of such persons. I am convinced that these facts have already been reported, but it was good to include this clarification in this circular. At the international level, 287 Frontex agents are currently deployed on the borders with Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus; 202 agents are in Romania, 149 on the Ukrainian border, 53 on the Moldovan border, 25 in Poland, 26 in Moldova and 34 in Slovakia. Europol pays attention to the risks associated with destabilising Ukrainian borders such as trafficking in human beings, arms and vehicles. Europol deployed 12 guest officers in four countries (Slovakia, Poland, Moldova and Romania) to carry out secondary security checks at the request of the four countries concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u4	Madam Minister, I have received a detailed answer to my first question, but not to the second. I admit that it was only recently filed, but I do not know whether it is an oblivion, or is there still something to be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u5	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u6	I have been to Brussels-South a number of times, and I have seen the situation there evolve enormously, for the better, over the last few weeks. The agreements at the info point are increasingly on the verge. The incoming refugees are also better led there and from there to public transport and further to the Heysel, for which we pay tribute. The railway police, Securail and the Red Cross volunteers are also involved, and that is progressing very well. I am certainly pleased with that progress. However, I have also talked to the people of the railway police on several occasions. They do their job extremely well, but they don't seem to know how human trafficking works at all. So I'd be surprised if a debriefing got to them. To my question how often they detected signs of human trafficking, they answered that it happened every hour, but they talked about every incoming train. I would therefore like to ask you to remind us of this. My second question, which has not been fully answered, concerns the agreements with the volunteers. They too must look at trafficking in human beings. In Germany, for example, good agreements have been made between the railway police and the volunteers, but if the railway police themselves are not aware of this, they cannot make agreements with the volunteers either. I have therefore argued in favour of systematically addressing all those who are waiting for the platform. When someone says that he is waiting for a family, one can pierce it relatively easily by asking. If there is no convincing answer, they can be addressed extra. However, such procedures were not yet in place. That is why I am asking you to reconsider this suggestion, but the situation has perhaps evolved for the better in the past week, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u7	Madam Minister, Mr Segers rightly zooms in on the criminal organisations, where the greatest challenge lies. However, I would like to draw your attention to another point. I do not blame you for what you have said here today, because there is indeed a catching-up movement. However, I do not understand why this has not been the absolute focus of your policy on this matter from day one. There are still a lot of things open today. These include the fact that local police are not allowed to screen these host families. That is a sign of great naivety. Last time, you replied that you were working on something that would allow you to obtain a certificate of good conduct and morals. However, that certificate is only about convictions. However, the number of convictions for the type of offences we are talking about, namely child abuse, intra-family violence, sexual violence and so on, is very low. So that certificate doesn't lead to much detection. However, local police and local authorities know very well which families they should regularly enter because of intra-family violence. Maybe it's not news for you, but a lot of local authorities and police zones go behind your back and do those screenings. They have already filtered out many people who had signed up for PlakVrij. It is a pity that they have to do so, because you make it impossible to deal with it in another way. If you think that the signs of sexual violence and child abuse will come out through a hotline, then I would like to remind you that we are not even able to show sufficient attention and attention for our own children in this respect. It remains regrettable that this is naivety, at the expense of very vulnerable people. It is also a pity that Mr Segers had to wake you up when you should have been from day one.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u8	That really is not a correct representation of the facts. I do not consider the intention behind that. We are not saying that the local police cannot carry out screening, and that is not happening behind our backs either. The regulation today prohibits systematic prior general screening. All host families must not be screened in advance. That is what the COC's opinion of 11 March says. We can do other things, like request the excrement from the criminal record. We're also asking the police to check at the residence check-up. That's what's happening, and it's not happening behind my back at all. That's the deal we made together. Suggesting nothing and preventing me from doing so is a pity. I'm not obstructing anything. It is the COC that has given the advice that we have been working on. In addition, we ask all coordinators but also local police to report any fact quickly by definition. We may not fully understand each other, but pretending to have prevented me from doing so is far-fetched. I give all the credit to Mr Segers, because he deserves it. However, I do not know whether it is entirely correct to say that he woke me up. However, that is only a detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u9	Madam Minister, I believe that this is true, because you did not come forward with matters until after he raised the problem. Secondly, if you take on board the COC's advice, you could have worked with that advice and adapted the rules accordingly. I am talking about a systematic screening of host families, which must by definition be done and the logic itself. You are a policy maker and when regulation gets in your way, you need to ensure that such crisis moments can still be worked on. In the case of terrorism, we dealt with this in the same way. I'll stick with that. You'll find it enough when facts that have happened come to light. I would have preferred to be proactive.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u10	[[Without a microphone]] You really are making a mistake when you say that a letter can come out of the sky at two o'clock because Ben Segers is asking a question in Parliament. You've got to stay a little serious. After all, you are suggesting that the law on privacy can be changed in a few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u11	Madam Secretary, if you continue to answer, I can also continue to answer. I'm very serious. One of your predecessors acted much faster to protect people during a similar moment of crisis. So you could have done that perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u12	Minister, we know that times of crisis are difficult. I will not go back to the issue of screening places, since my question was not about this issue, but about the issue of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Specific questions were asked. I still have a concern, although I have no doubt that you have shared all the data in your possession. You mention the presence of some seventeen judicial police officers specialising in this area for the arrondissements of Brussels, Liège and Antwerp. To the best of my knowledge, the Brussels borough would have only 15 of them to deal with cases of economic and sexual exploitation. Only two of them would deal with the first in a general way, not just from the Ukrainian point of view. They are interested in the potential contribution of labour that can enter the European territory without any visas and come here. I am seriously afraid that criminal networks or low-income people will benefit, at the risk of amplifying the phenomenon. With two criminal police officers in charge of dealing with cases of economic exploitation and about ten of sexual exploitation, this may become very complicated – and it is already so. Based on the data you provided to us, we see that your services provide you with more precise information on the number of Frontex agents per country at the borders of Ukraine than on the number of judicial police officers per judicial district in Belgium. It is very worrying to have a general and precise data on a border phenomenon on the one hand. I would therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to pay particular attention to these issues. Whether it is Liège – because the refugees arrive through the Guillemins station – Brussels – because they arrive through the Midi station – or Antwerp – because they arrive in numbers – these are three main points of arrival, which make it necessary to strengthen the Federal Judicial Police in order to combat trafficking and trafficking. To do this, we should know the exact number of judicial police officers dedicated to each operating mechanism. It's very important. We need to increase them. The Ukrainian crisis is not the cause of the problem, but has amplified it. Thus, several cases cannot be followed by the Labour Auditorate because of the lack of judicial police officers. The expansion of the phenomenon is such that we need to know how many of our resources in each district are increasing. For the rest, with regard to the specific arrangements for police, ONSS and a partnership with the OE, I know that they exist, but we need to establish more refined joint ventures. We must move forward in this direction to strengthen the dynamics between services. It's a necessity today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u13	Madam Secretary, it is important that progress be made but I remain concerned. In any case, further measures need to be taken. In Brussels-South, for example, much can be improved, as Mr Segers said just now. Other countries have seen this urgency much before, and that is why we are now lagging behind. We must not take advantage of the misery of others. In any case, therefore, we must tackle exploitation hard and decisively. Our country needs even more determination in this respect. We will continue to monitor this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u14	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55025826C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u16	These action groups are not entirely new and are now also known by the intelligence and security services and also by the police. They are active not only in Belgium, but also in other Western countries. They've also become more active over the past year. The attraction of such groups to young people has increased in recent years, also thanks to the corona crisis, so it can be suspected. Although it remains a phenomenon in the margin, fortunately, but it is essentially virtual. It is mainly a phenomenon of young men, including minors. Recently we have found that these groups have also become active in the physical, public space by applying stickers. That too is not a new tactic. Left extremists and anti-vaxers have already used it in the past, which we have already discussed in this committee. The services are aware of the existence of a department in Flanders of the White Lives Matter action group. It does not seem to be a structured organisation at the moment, which does not mean that we are not attentive to it. Your second question should be addressed to the Minister of Justice. I understand you asked him a similar question. The Belgian services work closely together in the framework of the TER strategy to identify all forms of extremism, including the radicalisation process. This concerns both left- and right-wing extremism. They will also propose and take measures to counter such trends of radicalisation. They use all the levers of the TER strategy. The same applies, of course, to such expressions of right-wing extremism. Finally, I would like to stress that I share your concern about these groups, whether they are right-wing extremist, left-wing extremist or jihadist. We always see the same process: polarization used, whether digital or not, we-side thinking and conspiracy theories. We must therefore remain vigilant. You can count on the services to follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u17	Madam Secretary, we do share the same concern. It is good that the security services are monitoring this closely. I have already asked the Minister of Justice about this, including the new approach to deradicalisation within the Strategy TER. So we also need to look at this disengagement approach and see what results can be achieved there. So it remains a focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u18	Madam Minister, the problem of lack of staff in the federal judicial police (FGP) is not new. Not only did you write a letter to the College of Attorneys General, but it also came up when the Brussels FGP had to call on men from the six police zones. Recently, the head of the Human Trafficking and Trafficking Division of the Central Executive Board of the fight against serious and organised crime also pointed out that child prostitution is increasing dramatically and that there are insufficient human resources to tackle the problem on its merits. That is why my questions focus on organised crime related to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. How many men in the FGP are working to combat prostitution of minors and trafficking in human beings? Will you release additional resources to meet the staff shortage? If so, within what time frame? According to your own policy plan, this fight remains an important priority for the FGP. Can you make that happen because of the staff shortage that there is? Are you considering a recruitment procedure for agents and detectives specifically for the FGP on the basis of the various assignments that this service is required to perform? Is there a need for a legislative framework for this? If so, when will you roll that out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u19	Mr Depoostere, some 140 FGP detectives are responsible for combating trafficking in human beings. I repeat that the whole government is giving priority to the challenges facing the FGP. It's a big challenge to get that going quickly. With Operation Sky ECC, the FGP is facing a major battle with organized crime in our country. The fight against trafficking in human beings plays a role in this. In previous discussions on this issue, we have already explained some solutions to the capacity problems of the FGP, both in terms of staff and resources. They also want to recruit to strengthen the FGP. I support the question concerning the recruitment of 195 additional detectives to the service. In addition, other options, such as possible accelerated recruitment and training, are also envisaged, without, of course, neglecting quality. Since early 2021, we have been able to recruit 341 people from the various DGJ executives. Other relations are also being drawn up. The Director-General of the FGP will then have to take the necessary decisions, in consultation with the judicial authorities, to allocate the reinforcements to the various departments, taking into account the priorities of the FGP but also the National Security Plan. I think all possible options should be considered to ensure that those people take those places effectively. Additional places were opened in 2020, but there were not enough candidates. The whole chain of recruitment is important. We are thinking with the HR services of the federal police about how we can do the recruitment and, above all, the retention of those people as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u20	Madam Secretary, I have no doubt whatsoever of your good intentions and your will to resolve the matter. In the meantime, the criticism continues to increase, simply because there is too long time, because there is no short-term action. My question was specifically about the prostitution of minors and trafficking in human beings. Today I read that Mr Vandenbroucke is making a similar plea through the media to tackle tax fraud and white-collar crime on the ground. He also identifies a shortage of men. Something must be done. I see that there is also an attempt to recruit local police areas in Brussels, and that some have gone into this, but that too is not exactly the direction it should take. After all, the Brussels police zones are already facing very serious challenges. If they also have to hand over troops to the FGP, it will be difficult to work in different areas. I agree, of course, that recruitment should provide more specific training for the FGP, so that existing needs are met. Within the FGP, I also believe that much better selection should be made where the troops are deployed. In the field I hear too many stories of a power structure and inefficient handling of staff and resources. I hope that will also change in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament 55025918C by Mrs Pas is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u22	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u23	Mr Depoostere, the older weapons of the Special Forces of the Federal Police were replaced by a new type of weapon with the same and better functionalities in 2020 and 2021. In the meantime, our policemen have been able to train with that better weapon and have become familiar with it. That is why the Special Forces of the Federal Police have provided their older weapons, all of which have been replaced by weapons of the new type, so that they could be delivered to Ukraine. In other words, they were older weapons purchased in 2002, 2004 and 2010 and they were all stored in a reserve and therefore no longer used by the police. So there is no need to buy new weapons either. The special units today have enough weapons to carry out their assignments, weapons that are newer and better than the older ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u24	That is a complete reassurance for me, Madam Secretary. I hope that the spare weapons in Ukraine will still work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u25	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Question No 55, by Mr Boukili (H-506080C) and Question No 55026113C 55026154C) by Mrs Platteau and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55026164C by Mrs Chanson.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u26	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u27	For me and for my party, it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that a government party should lend itself to this kind of misplaced action. Although, of course, every party still has the right to express its opinion in a democracy. That does not alter the fact that I find it unacceptable for police officers to be called murderers. Ik quote enkele slogans ter illustatie: Who do we call when the police kill?"; "You hit, I'm filming."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u28	Madam Secretary, in the debate surrounding your policy paper last year, you indicated that the General Directorate for Security & Prevention developed the Mutual Respect project to promote the relationship between security professionals and citizens with a focus on violence against and by security professionals. The project aims at a better phenomenon analysis, the use of local initiatives and the collection of good practices, with emphasis on restoring the relationship and trust between citizens and security actors. A national campaign was launched in September 2021. However, in order to achieve real results, it is important to continue to focus on strengthening the link between safety professionals and citizens. Many initiatives were under development. First of all, has this project enabled us to better analyse the phenomenon? If so, what conclusions do we draw from this? If not, what timetable do you think the analysis can be completed? Secondly, how are you doing with the creation of a network of partners? Could you give me a little more explanation here? Thirdly, there would be an increase in the visibility of hotlines. Has there been any progress in this area? Fourthly, providing more information to victims of violence was also one of the spearheads. In the meantime, how is this being dealt with? Finally, another important element was the exchange of good practice and the promotion of a positive dialogue by focusing on active involvement of residents by local authorities. Is that what's happening? What exactly do you expect from the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u29	Mr Depoostere, first of all, I do not understand the sticker campaign of the Ecolo youth organisation. She's reprehensible. Such a campaign will under no circumstances contribute to the policy I wish to pursue. Of course, we attach great importance to freedom of expression, but any misplaced action which further polarises the relationship between the citizen and the police forces, such as the action mentioned, must be rejected. I have also noted that Ecolo himself has very quickly distanced himself from the action and that the initiators have subsequently withdrawn the action. The administration has indeed set up a positive campaign, Mutual Respect, in which mutual respect for citizens and police and the rebuilding or building of trust is envisaged. The aim of this campaign is to combat polarisation in particular. For example, the campaign wants to launch eye-to-eye conversations. These are examples of good dialogue between citizens and safety professionals. I the course of that conversation, the participants are looking for a common vision, in the hope and ambition of ultimately understanding each other, as well as a positive view of the future. These talks make it clear that despite the differences in vision or possibly bad past experiences, the goal for the future is the same, namely mutual respect for one another. All actions launched from the campaign aim at bringing citizens and safety professionals closer together and thus creating or sustaining mutual respect. We didn't just launch that campaign. It is based on quality research, as well as discussions with youth and elderly organisations, among others. This has shown that getting to know each other better is a necessary first step to build or strengthen trust. After all, citizens do not always know who the different safety professionals are, what they do and what their powers are, which, of course, does not benefit their confidence. To answer that, did the brochure become the safety professions? compiled and distributed to improve knowledge about safety professionals. Ignorance of rights and duties on both sides can cause misunderstandings and certainly during interventions result in heated discussions and even aggression and violence. This is why an action is currently being developed on the dissemination of information on the rights and obligations of safety professionals and citizens during an intervention. There must, of course, be sufficient attention to youth and youth culture. Information about the photographing and filming of police forces is part of this. I also hope that the Child Test Working Group will be able to formulate proposals in the short term. It is very important to take account of the presence of children and young people in interventions. We also encourage any kind of debate or dialogue between citizens and security professionals on relevant issues, so that stereotypes can be pierced. One of the points that young people have mentioned is that it is not clear to all citizens where they can go if they think they have been treated unlawfully. There is a hotline and complaints handling procedures for victims will be identified with the aim of centralising and sharing that information through BeSafe, so that citizens know what service they can address. The services of the FPS Home Affairs aim to maximise support for the campaign. Actions have already been developed and further actions will be developed with stakeholders. It would be a good thing if local authorities could contribute to the campaign by using the campaign materials developed for this purpose at local level. Good practices are also exchanged. Both through social media and through BeSafe, the various good practices that local authorities can inspire themselves on are shared, in particular to improve the connections between citizens and safety professionals. Finally, we invite all local authorities to bring their good practices regarding trust and connection between citizens and safety professionals to the attention of the General Directorate for Safety and Prevention. In this way, that knowledge can be shared and disseminated to inspire other administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u30	It is not the first time that Ecolo's youth department has launched such campaigns. I questioned you about that a year ago. Then it was a company game, where one could earn points if one could beat up police officers. I'm glad you're condemning these campaigns and finding them as reprehensible as I am. I repeat that I have nothing against mutual respect, quite the contrary. All initiatives to this end are to be welcomed. We have to make sure that the pendulum doesn't go too far to one side. I'm hating a tone in which the police are accused of anything and everything, mostly without a round ride. In our country, police inspection is very strict, especially in comparison with many other countries. There is the P Committee, there is the AIG, there are the chiefs of police, in short there are many means to control the police. So I repeat my plea: treat the police with respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u31	There is indeed a wide range of initiatives ahead. However, it is important to pay even more attention to the exchange of good practice and involvement of local authorities. It seems obvious that one knows where one can go, but that is not always the case. Maybe we could put some extra advertising on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u32	I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u33	Mr Depoortere, Mrs Goethals, you asked questions about the fire in the warehouse and the training site of the federal police which broke out around 14 p.m. on 10 March in the quarter of Valaar occupied by the federal police. Those present in the shooting range received a basic training with the automatic firearm P90. Three shooting monitors and three students were caught by the smoke as a result of that fire. They were taken to the hospital. Five of them were allowed to go home a few hours later. One person stayed a night in observation, but he could also go home on Friday afternoon. When discovering the fire, the first concern was, of course, to evacuate all those present in the building. The Communication and Information Centre is located on the same site. Dispatch 101, who also visually detected the fire, alerted 911, on which the firefighter immediately came to the scene. I can't confirm at this time whether the moment the CIC alerted 911 after the moment the neighborhood residents made an emergency call. I don't have that information yet. For the causes of the fire it is still waiting for the results of the judicial investigation. In the absence of these results, it is not appropriate to comment on them already. It is difficult to estimate the financial impact of the material damage today. The building, which consists of a shooting position and the BOSA garage, has been completely destroyed, as well as six cars and two engines. The location of the garage was equipped with security measures. The shooting mode was also secured with a secure and restricted access badge system. For the entire site of the quarter of Valaar there is a fire prevention file which is currently being reworked in accordance with the new regulations. The follow-up of such dossiers is the subject of annual evaluation of an annual Action Plan on Welfare. It may also include a visit to the workshop by the members of the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work, as well as the discussion in the basic consultation committee with the trade unions. The screening, updating and monitoring of compliance with fire prevention records, not only of shooting modes but of all federal police buildings throughout the country, is an important focus of welfare and security policy. In the meantime, I have asked the Commissioner-General once again to keep a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u34	Madam Minister, you have not yet been able to answer a number of questions, including the material and financial damage and the cause of the fire. I will submit these questions later in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u35	Madam Secretary, one lesson we must learn from this is that it is important to keep everything up-to-date. We could hear that there were a number of flaws and shortcomings in the whole situation there. We can't let that happen again. We are now extremely lucky that we had 'only' five minor injuries in the end. It could have gone a lot worse. We can't think about that. In the future, we need to do all the screenings on all firing modes. All evacuation plans and such should be up-to-date each time. For example, it should not include people who have been absent for a long time. Succession will be necessary, but you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u36	Mr Cogolati, with regard to the conflict in Ukraine, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and its national partners continue to monitor developments and will decide on appropriate measures if necessary and if imposed by Belgium. Although the government has not yet taken the decision to raise the level of alerts for Belgium, Belgian nuclear sites, including the SCK-CEN, are, of course, under heightened vigilance. With regard to cybersecurity risks in particular, vigilance has also been strengthened. The AFCN works closely with the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium and the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT). It should also be noted that nuclear expertise is a niche sector. In order to improve on a continuous basis, the exchange and sharing of knowledge between experts, both at national and international level, remains essential. For AFCN, what is paramount in this debate is to be able to ensure that the nuclear safety and security of installations in our country are maintained at all times. To this end, the advanced expertise and technical knowledge of a nuclear expert must always take precedence over his/her nationality, especially if his/her expertise is essential to ensure nuclear safety and security in Belgium. Apart from expertise, the security aspect is crucial. The procedures in place provide that nationality and relations with the country of which the person is a national are always a factor taken into account in the investigations or security checks to which that person is subjected. The current geopolitical context is therefore taken into account. But above all, it is the maintenance of our level of expertise and the safety of our nuclear facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u37	Thank you, Minister. I heard or understood that six contracts, notably with the SCK-CEN and Russian institutions, had been suspended and frozen. It would be interesting to know whether the same applies to persons of Russian nationality who work as experts in Belgian nuclear installations. I will allow myself to repeat a question on this matter if you do not have this information now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u38	Recently, Europol published the results of its operation Pandora VI, a large-scale police operation against art smuggling, involving no less than 28 countries in the period from June to September last year. The operation can at least be called a success, given the seizure of more than 9000 art and culture objects and 52 arrests. We already know that art robbery is a global problem and that there is big money to be made with it. To my surprise I had to note that Belgium did not participate in this important action, although our country has already been called the turntable for international art robbery. I have two questions about this. Can you tell me why our police officers didn't participate in this operation? Is there a specific reason for that? Does our police possibly not have the necessary capacity? Secondly, in your capacity as Minister of the Interior, you asked the Federal Police Commissioner General to evaluate the decision to suspend the Arts and Antiques cell. Can you give us the latest state of play on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u39	Madam Minister, I would like to add my colleague Jan Briers' questions. We have engaged in a dialogue on this issue since 12 January. Several stages took place during the exchanges, both in plenary and in committee. Beyond the statements, there remains the feeling that, in reality, this cell has not been operational since the beginning of the year. [[I have heard your position in plenary and committee.]] For you this decision was inappropriate and you were going to ask for it to be reconsidered. But it seems that in fact this is not the case. In the national security plan, in the draft under discussion, we would talk again about how our state would work on works of art and stolen antiques. This process is likely to take longer. This national plan may be operational at the end of this year or the beginning of 2023. Can you tell me more? The fact that the work of a federal central cell in the judicial police is included in the national security plan is also not a sine qua non for this cell to be truly operational and capable of functioning. That really remains my request. Could you, by means of an analysis, objectiveise figures and elements? On the merits, I will not repeat the arguments I have already given in pleading for the maintenance of this cell. I've already developed them several times and I'm not doing it here. My question is to see, in the organisation of the judicial police and within the means available now or in the future, what human means will be devoted to the fight against the theft of works of art and antiquities. Federal coordination with other parts of the country is needed and coordinated action is needed at European and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u40	First of all, I can confirm to Mr Briers that the police have taken part in the operation. On 6 May 2021, at the invitation of Europol, the police services registered as a participant in Operation Pandora VI. The activities planned in Belgium include both the control and the analysis of the export licences applied for, in particular in the fields of money laundering, customs fraud and the illegal export of cultural goods. The ad hoc services of the Ministry of Finance were also invited to participate in this operation. There is no request for support from our partners to the Belgian police. So maybe that's why those messages were shared so much. Mr Delizée, I have spoken on this subject recently and I will refer to the content of my replies which I have been able to give. However, I would like to make it clear that the operational process, including the judicial process, relating to the matter remains well carried out by the local or federal police services. I have already discussed this with the Commissioner General and I continue to do so to ensure that the analytical and investigative capabilities of the integrated police are maintained for this type of crime. The same applies to the exchange of information at the international level; there too we need to take part. I intend to draw the Commissioner-General's attention again to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u41	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u42	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I think you have understood the issue and are paying particular attention to it. I recall that the President of the College of Attorneys General also spoke very clearly on this issue some time ago. This illustrates the need and I think you have understood what the problem was. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the year, the coordination unit at the level of the Federal Judicial Police is no longer operational. This is where we have to put back resources, even the same as before. If the two people who retired could be replaced, even if they had to be trained, that would be good. You're telling me that we need to continue the international exchange. This is not the case at the moment, but it must be done. I can only invite you to dialogue with the Commissioner-General, the Directorate of the Judicial Police and the Police in general, in order to regain a capacity for action in this area of coordination of intra-Belgian, European and international services.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u43	Madam Minister, my question comes from an investigation conducted by iVOX at the beginning of this year on behalf of cybersecurity company Sophos. It has carried out a market survey of 250 Belgian companies which are comparable and representative in terms of sector and size. This resulted in a number of very remarkable results. Nearly six out of ten companies show 59 % of companies that they do not have a cybercrime plan. That is, to say the least, worrying. Today technology plays a crucial role in business activity. Without such a plan, business activity will be seriously interrupted when the company is faced with a cyber attack on its system. Furthermore, the study shows that 38% of the CEOs of smaller companies themselves are responsible for coordination during a cyber attack, while according to Sophos a cyber attack would be better dealt with by a large team. When a cyber attack manifests itself, it is striking that a helpline is sought at different locations and contacts different organisations. First of all, the local police are to follow in one case on the four lines, then the CCB or its own security partner. At the same time, there are a lot of companies that do not know what to do at all. Almost one in four sits with their hands in their hair because they do not know where they can go. However, what struck me most in all figures is the hallucinatory figure of 39% of managers who say that they are willing to pay ransom in the hope of getting back the stolen data without any guarantee. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Do you think that these figures show that there is a need for a central point of contact or basic platform where victims can go for both complaints and information? Secondly, it is increasingly apparent that victims first turn to the local police. Is it an idea, besides the FCCUs and the RCCUs, to work more with Local Computer Crime Units or LCCUs in different zones? Finally, do you also think it is important to organise a legally required training for the regular police forces on virtual interaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u44	First of all, we already have a central point of contact for information to victims of incidents, the CCB. In addition, we have the website safeonweb.be, where a team of cyberexperts is ready to answer questions from victims. In addition, there is also the focal point of the FPS Economy to refer any victims to the competent police forces when a company has not initially taken the initiative to file its own complaint. I absolutely agree with you that the creation of Local Computer Crime Units can be encouraged and that we must ensure that there are contact points. We note, however, that there is a great difference in terms of the willingness and ability of local police forces to invest in it. All this depends on local budgetary opportunities and also on the extent to which they are faced with cybercrime in their police area. We should also mention that it is competent or equipped to deal with cybercrime facts at local level, not necessarily related to the existence or non-existence of a Local Computer Crime Unit, because the local police areas can be supported by the Regional Computer Crime Units, which also do so wherever necessary. It is certainly important that police officers are trained in accordance with their duties. Especially in the case of cybercrime, it is desirable and necessary that they are made aware of this phenomenon and that they certainly learn the right reflexes. Local police officers can use the CyberAid web site. This information tool helps first-line police to respond better to cybercrime complaints. I do, however, share your view that the path we have to take is long and that we must prepare our people as best we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. There is indeed a great deal, as you pointed out. There is indeed a central point of contact with the CCB. There's safeonweb.be. There is also the hotline at the FPS Economy and there are countless other agencies where people can go. However, when we look at the investigation, we see that the citizen, who is affected by this whole erratic thing, is almost unable to find his way in it. One in four doesn't even know what to do. So there is still something wrong with the way in which we can reach people. We must indeed encourage the LCCUs. However, that will not be evident either. I understand that very well. This also depends on the police zone. What I see and experience very often when I speak to a number of policemen is that often the district agent is still being harassed with such matters. However, such a declaration to the district agent means a very cumbersome procedure for the district agent. There is therefore a real need for more local action within certain areas, in which citizens can be effectively helped well and quickly. Not every neighborhood cop is as well trained to do something like that today. A cyber security report often takes an hour or two hours. Those are all hours that the district agent cannot do what he or she really should do, especially in the neighborhood. A switch should therefore be possible, which could make the district agent more effective on the ground, but could somehow help the local police, without burdening the district agent with it. Good training is important in this respect. Awareness is necessary, but we really have to do something about the problem, such as keeping a root, which will also involve local police areas in this training. This is, after all, extremely important, both for the police zones themselves and for the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u46	Mr President, I am kicking in an open door when I say that we have been regularly confronted with violence during demonstrations in our cities and mainly in our capital city in recent months. We also witnessed a lot of vandalism, looting, destruction and arson against street furniture, garbage cans, cars and so on. That often also led to a confrontation with the police. A colloquium on tackling, managing and preventing urban violence was organised in 2021 with the Justice Department. This initiative would continue in 2022, looking at practices in our country and abroad. The intention is to come up with concrete proposals in this way. Meanwhile, the first quarter of 2022 is almost over. Are there any good practices from abroad that we will be able to apply in our cities? If so, which one? Is there any further consultation on urban violence with the Justice Department in 2022? If so, with what results? If not, do you plan such consultations together with your services? Are there concrete policy proposals to tackle urban violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u47	Mr Moyaers, through the European Crime Prevention Network, a request was circulated to obtain more information on the existence of good practices in tackling urban violence in European countries as a source of inspiration for our country. The information requested includes good practices for the socio-preventive management of riots as well as judicial measures against the perpetrators of urban violence. The results of this request are expected by the end of next quarter. In addition, the Brussels Capital-Elsene police area has for a long time been used to exchanging good practices with neighbouring countries such as France, Germany and the Netherlands. There are several projects, including communication with protestors, but also with regard to the adaptation or even improvement of the equipment used. At the conferences in 2021, several interesting approaches were already shared nationally and internationally, such as the preventive approach of the city of Mechelen, which is characterised by an individual but also a municipal proximity. This will enable frustrations to be tackled at community level and preventive action to be taken. Finally, I would like to refer to the four principles of public order policy, in particular training, assistance to organizers, differentiation and communication, which the Rotterdam police have shared with us and which we also include in the roll-out of our practice. Services also focus on a number of projects and tools to tackle urban riots directly or indirectly. It is primarily about new ways of protesting, also an international phenomenon, in which different groups work on themes where they strive for quick wins in the short term, and structural proposals will also be discussed in the longer term. It is also about increasing the quality of training and developing adapted tactics and techniques, but also about identifying new technologies. The exchange of information at national and international level will certainly also be an important part of that project. I would also like to mention the Mutual Respect campaign, which we have talked about a number of times. Finally, I mention the so-called child test, which was created to improve the relationship between young people and the police and to change and improve processes, so that a police force can be created tailored to those young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I found the last part of your answer very interesting. I think that the results expected next quarter are certainly worth keeping in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u49	Question No 55026284C by Mrs Chanson has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u50	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u51	Mr Goethals, the management of the aviation police is always investigating the reason for departure. There are usually two reasons that staff indicate: commuting and ambition to do something else, such as intervention with local police or detective work. The uncertainty surrounding the possible extension of the NAVAP system has also led some staff members to request that leave to be sure and therefore to leave more quickly. The current framework of the BRANAT aviation police has been calculated on the basis of the interdepartmental commission, i.e. an increase of 100 staff. The current framework seems to me to be in line with the current situation and future tasks of the aviation police, particularly the Entry/Exit System (EES), which will be introduced at the end of this year. The recent and repeated international summits in Brussels show that the proposed capacity for BRUNAT is not an unnecessary luxury. The aim is to bring the various units of BRUNAT together in a modernised building, which will certainly contribute to employee branding; that move is planned for 2023. In principle, the work in preparation for that move should start in mid 2022. The federal police are working closely with the (...) architects bureau and Brussels Airport Company to manage the renovations and the move. As far as border control premises are concerned, second line works are being carried out in stages. The first phase should be completed this year in September/October. The aim is to complete this work by the end of this year. In any case, as we have learned, the deadlines must also take into account the development of the health situation, in particular the covid pandemic, which has caused delays, and possibly unforeseen circumstances in the implementation of a building dossier. In any case, I have given you the target dates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u52	Madam Secretary, I have no further questions. It is important that it progresses, of course some parameters are out of control. It is also important that you continue to work on employee branding, not only for the aviation police, but also in general, to make the profession even more attractive than it already is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Rigot's 55026353C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u54	Madam Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u55	"You had indicated in your last policy note that the new Framework Note on Comprehensive Security (2022-2025) and the National Security Plan (2022-2025), which are the implementation by the police services of the comprehensive security policy, would enter into force on 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u56	It's late March and we still don't see anything happening. What is the status of these two texts? When do you think you'll come and expose them to the federal Parliament? '
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u57	The policy agreement between the Federal State and the Communities and Regions on the Internal Security Framework Paper and on the National Security Plan took place in March in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Security and Enforcement Policy. No further comments were made during the IMC on the current draft framework note and national security plan and therefore a consensus could be reached. After this inter-ministerial conference, the legally required opinion of the Federal Police Council was obtained. The National Security Plan (NSP) is being finalized taking this contribution into account and will soon be promulgated by me and the Minister of Justice. Finally, after this final validation, the NSP's strength lines will be communicated to Parliament in the coming weeks, with the advice of the Federal Police Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u58	Madam Minister, I would especially like to know when we will be able to discuss the National Security Plan and the Framework Note on Comprehensive Security in this Parliament. I hear the consultations are over.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u59	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, is my question out of date? Yes and no. It concerns the management of Ukrainian recordings at Heysel. I had the opportunity to go there two weeks ago. Law enforcement officers were on the scene. At the same time, they told us how much they feared that the NATO and European Union summits at which the US President would be present would arrive. They wondered how they would be able to carry out all their missions. Meanwhile, these summits have taken place. We know that vigilance at Heysel is important and that other European sums, perhaps not of the same magnitude as last week, will take place in the coming weeks. Minister, in this context, how does the division between the federal police and the local police services take place? How do you manage to ensure that these events are not a complementary burden to the detriment of local police services? How many police officers were assigned to these two events (federal and local police)?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u60	Mr President, Mr Matz, since Saturday 19 March, the Federal Police have been providing assistance to the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police area for surveillance at the Heysel site. A police system is in place from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. As refugees are a disciplined public, the police system does not require much mobilization. As far as State visits are concerned, the management of the police service is also entrusted to the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone, but of course it can use police officers and bodies from other areas of the Federal Police. The Brussels-Capital-Ixelles area is supported by federal units and local police in order to absorb the accumulation of tasks resulting from these various events. The committed police capacity is determined on the basis of risk analyses, a particular one linked to each event and a global one taking into account the simultaneity of the missions. This capacity will be adjusted to reflect information, program changes and operational progress. In general, the exact numbers of police officers are not provided for security reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u61	Madam Minister, thank you and I understand your answer to that. The issue of strengthening the local police force remains essential, as the Brussels police area assumes most of the tasks related to the holding of European summits, etc. In fact, in asking this question, I wanted to know whether the federal police had the capacity to provide support when needed and whether, given the complicated size of the force, its support was still possible. Indeed, for other missions, the opposite is the case. For example, for judicial police missions, it is the local police areas in Brussels, in any case, that come in support of the federal police, which is, as you will concede, the world upside down. As far as policing is concerned, there is no problem with the support of the federal police, if I have heard your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u62	Fortunately, the sanitary measures have now been relaxed, taking into account the health situation, although many people have still recently become infected and have to be quarantined. A change in a selection test requires another organisation within the Recruitment and Selection department and an adaptation of the premises, but certainly also communication with the candidates. In addition, the Recruitment and Selection Service wants to guarantee an adjustment period for the candidates for the return to the functional course. That decision was also taken in favour of the candidates, so that they have every chance to prepare for this change in the sport test in optimal conditions, so that hopefully we have as many successful candidates as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u63	I understand the approach, but we expect people who know that they will have to do a sports test somewhere, that their condition is already such that they do not have to wait extra months. That's too bad, but so be it. I also understand that the organisation is not obvious, but I would have preferred to have people start as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u64	Mr. Chair, Minister, following negotiations on the salary adjustment of police personnel, a first agreement was reached with the SLFP and SNPS unions. On 10 March, two other trade union organizations, the CSC and the CGSP, took action to block Bierset airport, bringing together about 100 police officers, according to the press. In the framework of this structural negotiation, the said unions claim a higher wage increase than the one negotiated last January, as well as an emphasis on administrative and logistical staff in the negotiations. In view of the insufficient and uncertain progress made, the latter called for a resumption of negotiations before the scheduled date of 2024. Minister, what are your intentions with respect to the union demands outlined? Is there a new negotiating agenda to answer questions from the various police unions? As mayor and president of the police council, I would also like to receive your return concerning the timetable, the consultation with the local authorities, the cost for our municipal, local finances and the sustainability of this wage adjustment agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u65	Madam Minister, we know effectively that the SSGPI had filed a strike notice for a period of one week, which ended last week on 25 March 2022. It announced in that commitment that it would take effective action, such as laying down the work. This has also been done effectively in the Brussels services. Why is it organizing that strike? We all know that. In the end, that's always to find hearing. One cannot find any answer, either from the higher governments or from you, apparently. As Mr Senesael pointed out, the actions are also linked to the promised wage increases within the federal police. We were also told that the secretariat itself should not be recruiting for the next three years and that it urgently needs new material, which is also awaiting its arrival. Savings of some EUR 30 million should be made. In the long term, there would be a general dissatisfaction with staff welfare. The SSGPI also fears losing its independence. It was completely independent until now, but now the budgets in the federal police will be stopped, making purchases. Were you effectively aware of the strike commitment and the actions? Can you confirm that the SSGPI will not be allowed to do additional recruitments for the next three years? Will you confirm the savings of EUR 30 million? Finally, have you talked to them yet? What were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u66	First of all, Mr Senesael, as I have already said before this Parliament, the financing of the interim agreement will be the subject of further discussions within the government. I can tell you that this will take place in the next few days, as foreseen in the context of budgetary control. I have always involved cities and municipalities in all stages of the negotiations and have regularly consulted them for further work. I have always sought, taking into account the financial context, to limit the budgetary impact on local authorities. By doing this, I am an ally of the communes in this case. I have noticed, once again today, that a number of colleagues in this chamber support me in this process. On 28 January, I concluded this interim conditional agreement with two of the four trade unions recognized as representative concerning, on the one hand, a quantitative wage increase for operational staff and, on the other hand, a wage correction for the CALOG staff of the integrated police force. I have already explained this in detail in previous committees. As you yourself point out, this was insufficient for the other two unions. They were not satisfied with the salary adjustment that had to take into account the comparable scales applicable in the CPS. In that context, they wished to continue the negotiations. I believe that the agreement reached in the meantime is, in the present phase, the best possible result given the budgetary context of all the authorities in our country. I have always been clear that, in addition to a quantitative part, there is also a qualitative part to contribute to a more attractive police force. The negotiations for that qualitative part are still ongoing. I am indeed aware, Mrs Goethals, of the strike commitment and the actions at the SSGPI. The announcement is not only for the SSGPI but also for the employees of the federal police. It is in particular linked to the payout of wages due to the problems with the implementation of the backhand of the new wage engine. The employees indicate to experience too high psychosocial pressure. There would also be loopholes which would have to be paid to the staff of the integrated police. As far as the wage engine is concerned, I can confirm that the necessary pressure is being exerted on the executive company to ensure that the final points are resolved as soon as possible so that everyone can be paid properly and in good time. The main problems still concern the treatment of debts and the resolution of differences identified during the parallel runs in October, November and December. The delay and the backseats have two causes. The first is the backlog that is still present with regard to the payment of work-related travel costs. The SSGPI takes action as soon as possible to work this way together with the colleagues of the ICT Directorate of the Federal Police. In addition, there are files that were blocked during the parallel runs in October, November and December. The SSGPI looks at these files together with the executive company to solve them as soon as possible. The first group of still blocked files was resolved as a result of the interventions in February. With the payout of the March betting, a next large group of files will also be realized. As regards the savings on the appropriations of Section 17, Federal police and integrated operation, I would like to point out that the Federal Police Management Committee has been instructed to draw up a strategic plan that takes into account the needs of the SSGPI. I look forward to it, and I'm sure we'll have an opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the next budgetary control will be particularly important in view of the cost which will be affected by the various authorities in the country. In addition, I am pleased to see that you are an ally of the communes. However, it is realistic to say that we are facing a difficult equation. On the one hand, we hear the legitimate demands of our police officers for a re-evaluation of their scales. On the other hand, we cannot deny the complicated financial context, as it is difficult for the political authorities in this country to balance their budget. It is therefore important to find the best possible solution to this equation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u68	I wanted to thank the Minister for the clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament 5526462C) by Mrs Leoni and others: 55026557C) by Mrs Zanchetta. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55, by Mr Thiébaut 55026502C by Mrs Chanson.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u70	Madam Secretary, since the fire revoming, the municipality of Lierde has been a member of the South-East Aid Zone. Recently, the city council asked to be able to switch to another zone. You are aware of the problem of the scale of aid areas. Depending on the area concerned, this increase in scale has led to the payment of fewer services in different places. Many cities and municipalities therefore pay more for fewer staff and lower levels of protection. The multi-annual plans were drawn up according to the budget and key within those zones. Such a change of course has a huge financial impact on the area that is being abandoned. Moreover, it is a dangerous precedent, because other municipalities are coming to leave the zone. The remaining municipalities then have to pay the rest, while the federal donation would fall. The decision is taken by the Council of Mayors. Today, the Consultative Committee for East Flanders came together and gave an unfavourable opinion. So the possible switch has now been averted. Are you familiar with this particular case? What's your vision? Would you also like to explain the consequences for the federal funding of the assisted area in question? What law or regulation ensures that the advice of the abandoned rescue zone is subordinate to that of the receiving zone? Are you willing to make adjustments or at least open the debate on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u71	Madam Minister, my question concerns the same area of aid, but the approach is different. This weekend there was another incident with a fire in a driving house in Geraardsbergen. A neighbor put out that fire with a garden hose. According to the neighborhood residents, it took 45 minutes for the fire department to arrive. Once again, there was a shortage of volunteers, or yet volunteers with the right qualifications to drive out of the pump truck in Geraardsbergen, which meant leaving from Aalst and Denderleeuw. Two minutes seems to go faster if you ask questions than if there's a fire. I wonder if you can confirm that? I know this is hard for you. When the kitchen burns out, the minutes of course go slower in the head than in reality. I wonder if you can see that? In any case, a shortage of volunteers is something that affects all aid zones, but the 2020 inspection report also shows that the Southern East Aid Zone is also suffering from other shortcomings, which makes it not attractive, neither for professional firefighters nor for volunteers. The recommendations of the 2020 inspection report were crystal clear, one had to apply a work regulation, a multiannual plan, a risk analysis, a detailed vision of the future for the barracks, better internal communication, a reorganisation of the services, but also a coaching project for the zone commander and the management team. I have a few more questions about the follow-up to that inspection report. Normally it was agreed with the zone that a state of affairs would be made by last summer. Did that follow-up happen? Can you give us an update? To what extent have these recommendations been followed? Have the recommendations of the 2019 inspection report on practice and training policies also been followed? I am not surprised that Lierde and Laarne have indicated that they are leaving this area of aid. They are in their corners and opt for the safety of their citizens. I will not repeat their questions, they are similar to Mrs De Jonge's. Did you know about that? Can you tell me what the procedure is and what the plowings are?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u72	Colleagues, a municipality that wants to change aid zones must comply with the procedure provided for in the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. The procedure to be followed will start with a reasoned application from the municipality to the governor for the convening of the Provincial Advisory Committee. Thereafter, the advice of the receiving zone shall in principle be added. The area to be abandoned may also provide advice to the governor. The Provincial Advisory Committee shall be convened by the Governor and shall consist of all the mayors of the province who must have obtained the opinion of their municipal council. The Provincial Advisory Committee then adopted an opinion by a majority. Each member may submit a minority note. The advice shall be given to the King with a view to adjusting the territorial classification of the zones by royal decree. The procedure that has now been described and needs to be followed does not provide for me as Minister of the Interior to make an assessment of the concrete situation. It is therefore not the case that the advice of the abandoned zone would be subordinate to the advice of the receiving zone. The Federal contribution to the areas concerned may then be recalculated. I don't have any plans at the moment to change the M.O. The procedure has been applied several times. As regards the specific functioning of the fire zone itself, the report following the inspection on 24 November 2020 concluded that the area should be regulated as soon as possible. In particular, the inspection requested an approved work regulations and multi-annual policy plan and to finalise a detailed vision or perspective for the barracks. In addition, it called for internal communication, the reorganisation of a number of services to achieve efficiency gains and the effective implementation of the individual coaching project for the zone commander as well as a joint coaching project for the management team. The zone was re-inspected on 15 and 17 February 2022. The report on this visit, which has recently taken place, is still being prepared. In any case, my inspection services will continue to monitor the area. I am counting on the area to make the necessary efforts to align itself, where appropriate, with the various elements, as mentioned in the inspection report.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u73	Madam Minister, the abandoned zone has not been asked to give an opinion. The area they wanted to join has given an opinion, but I still have to look at that in the context of the legislation. When municipalities are shopping in search of another zone, it has a huge impact on the cities and municipalities that are lagging behind. There are many elements that indicate that certain municipalities want to leave a zone, for example the formation of regions and the merger of cities and municipalities, which brings one of the two municipalities into another zone. In the long term, therefore, the landscape of the fire zones should be redesigned. As far as the south-east zone is concerned, I can tell you that a staff plan and a barracks plan are in progress. That will require a huge investment, even in the future. This is yet another additional budget that falls on the shoulders of the various cities and municipalities located in this area. Any city or municipality that thinks it pays too much can easily go to another zone, so we need to consider this and see what we can do in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u74	Madam Minister, I am particularly pleased that the inspection has followed the zone so closely and that there has been another inspection on 15 and 17 February. I will therefore not fail to request the findings of that inspection report. When I speak to the people who work in the area, both the volunteers and the professionals, I hear that there are a lot of shortcomings. These are people with a very strong commitment who have a heart for the relief. They go on purely on the basis of their motivation and commitment to the citizens, but I fear that it is a matter of time, especially in the outskirts of the zone, before major accidents occur and the safety of the citizens is compromised. As Mrs De Jonge said, the result is that municipalities go shopping. I therefore call upon all the municipalities belonging to that relief zone to cooperate and to write a vision about the barracks. At present, for example, the volunteer post in Lede is in such an outdated building that it is difficult to get all the cars in it. However, the vision is awaited, so that we can learn about the new location. Of course, that weighs on all the volunteers who work there. I hope that the associated municipalities will join forces in the interests of the security of the citizens, that decisions will finally be taken and that we will continue to put everything in order. Better communication between the top and those in the various posts about the individual coaching project and coaching for the management team is also essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u75	Mrs De Jonge, I am sorry, but you can still be given the floor in plenary, but this is not possible at a committee meeting anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u76	Mr De Smet, the manufacturing costs, otherwise referred to as "tariffs", are set out in the Ministerial Order of 15 March 2013. According to this order, the cost of producing A cards is actually EUR 17.20. However, as recalled by the Council of State in its Opinion 68/1958/2 of 29 March 2021 on a draft amendment to the Ministerial Decree of 15 March 2013, Article 6, § 8 of the Law of 19 July 1991 does not allow the Minister to enact new rules or create new rights or duties. It may determine by order the amount of the sums to be recovered from the communes, but may only establish an amount corresponding to the cost of making the various cards issued. In other words, in the light of Article 6, § 8, it is not for me to decide unilaterally whether to make free or to adjust the A-card tariff. As far as work permits are concerned, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u77	Mr President, I thank the minister for her answer. We will take the time to analyse it, but it is extremely clear in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u78	Madam Minister, last Thursday, the Conference of Brussels Mayors decided to respond favourably to the request of the Federal Judicial Police to send him reinforcements for the execution of certain investigations in matters of great banditry. This unusual demand was met coldly and with some distrust, as successive federal governments continued to disinvest, including our police. As a result, Minister, these are my questions. How do you respond to the discontent of the Brussels mayors? Do you understand that? Do you consider it legitimate? The Conference asks for an early knowledge of the conditions and practical arrangements for the development of this secondment. Of course, it is the least that can be achieved. As a result, what will be the modalities of the request for reinforcements? How many police officers will be seconded? For how long? Will they be in time? Is an invoicing agreement for the reimbursement of the costs of seconded staff under development? The Conference also deplores the regular or even systematic transfer of tasks from the judicial police to the local police, without adequate financial compensation. Do you intend to accede to their requests, in particular with regard to the reform of the KUL standard and baraemic reclamations? Do you intend to ask, in the long term, at the Conference of Brussels Mayors, for the sustainability of this reinforcement mechanism, as is done in Antwerp? If so, do you not believe that it is up to the federal police to support the local police and not the other way around? The scale and complexity of the Sky ECC case, in my view, argue for a structural approach to organised crime. What initiatives, therefore, are you planning to take, in collaboration with the Minister of Justice, to prevent the current situation generated by the Sky ECC case from reoccurring in the future? The government announced that the federal police would be strengthened by €70 million this year, and up to €100 million in 2024. This would allow 195 new specialized investigators to be recruited. That's very good. Can you provide an overview of these recruitments? How many new investigators have been recruited? How many will be recruited in 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u79	Madam Minister, my question is in line with my previous question on the shortage of staff in the federal judicial police. I had already noted at that time that the mayor's conference would have responded positively to the FGP's request to provide additional capacity for investigations into organised crime. Are you involved in that initiative? What are the conditions and modalities of the support? How many men will be made available by the local police zones? Finally, I would like to repeat questions concerning the redeployment of staff in the FGP and the possible solution which could be more selective recruitment and training.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u80	Colleagues, in principle the federal judicial police are not in favour of reinforcements from the local police through postings. Police reform with integrated functioning between the two police levels is mainly based on a solidarity mechanism. Moreover, the financial burden on the seconded has an impact on the budgetary resources of the FGP. On many occasions, the two police forces have worked closely together on issues of both a local and a federal dimension. The 2002 Circular of Attorneys General COL2 provides, inter alia, for the possibility of joint teams. Exceptionally, it must be possible for the local police to engage more investigative capacity. Thus, the Police Function Act and the Integrated Police Act provide that the local police may, on an exceptional and temporary basis, contribute to certain federal investigations at the request of the judicial authorities. In this case, the mayors' response is certainly a sign that they have taken into account the importance of these judicial investigation files to public safety. I thank them for that. It is not correct that tasks would be systematically transferred from federal police to local police. For example, the creation of the Security Directorate has made it possible to take over tasks at federal level that previously required significant local police capacity. The federal judicial police have drawn up a strategic plan, DGJ 3.0, which aims to provide a structural response to new challenges, in particular the approach to organised crime. I logically support that view. As regards the further strengthening of the federal judicial police, I have just outlined a number of proposals in the committee. It is my ambition to structurally strengthen the FGP in order to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. Yes, there is a mechanism of solidarity between the different police and this solidarity is essential. The problem lies in the weight, length and complexity of files such as this one (Sky ECC), which means that one is not in a punctual exercise but in something, according to the opinions of the various Brussels mayors, which looks like an attempt to overcome structural weaknesses. I hear and know that you intend to continue the work to strengthen the judicial police, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u82	Madam Minister, the problem is obviously not new in the fight against organised crime. I refer again to the letter from the College of Attorney General. In committee, my group has called for a hearing with the President of the College of Attorneys General, but that proposal has been voted down by the Vivaldi parties. I would like to hear you say that you are not in favour of this exceptional way of working either. I have not said anywhere that it should be or should be structural. On the contrary, I am not in favour of it myself. It is not good for the FGP itself, nor for the local police areas, whose tasks are perhaps neglected, as I mentioned earlier. Work must therefore be done on the recasting of the police landscape. It is time for the States-General to deliver results and finally for decisions to be taken. That would be a good thing for both federal and local police. The federal police are already chasing the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u83	"Madam Minister,Belgium has registered nearly 25,000 Ukrainian refugees since the start of Russian aggression against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u84	In what other way could the Home SPF provide assistance to the municipalities in the context of the reception of Ukrainian refugees?"
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u85	The provision of internal FPS personnel within the municipalities to assist them in their refugee-reception mission seems to be difficult, since the FPS must call on external staff to deal with the Ukrainian crisis. For example, the Aliens Office itself is strengthened by other FPSs to ensure the smooth running of registrations. Although we are not in the federal phase, the crisis centre coordinates cooperation between the various federal and federal departments by organizing regular meetings of the Federal Coordination Committee (COFECO). These meetings are supported by a Celeval and Infocel, which have also been established within the Crisis Centre. In addition, the Crisis Centre supports Fedasil in the development of the federal emergency reception and in the joint development of the necessary computer applications. In conclusion, I would like to point out that at a time when Civil Protection is still working in the context of the recent floods and has to carry out its routine tasks, its teams are also required to ensure the logistics of the Federal Registration Centre in Brussels and the various emergency accommodation units. In addition, the Home SPF has not received any requests to this effect to date from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u86	Your answer disappoints me somewhat. There is certainly no federal phase, but there is a federal responsibility. It is the federal power that decides, together with the other European states, to activate the temporary protection directive. I am one of those who welcome this, but this leads to the fact that, very quickly, a large number of Ukrainians are recognized as refugees. They therefore have access to the private and public rental market and therefore maintain a significant number of relations with the municipalities. It is the responsibility, at least moral, of the federal government. I understand that the Foreigners' Office is itself overburdened. If, as estimated, more than 200,000 Ukrainians who had fled the war were to be found in Belgium, the municipalities would soon cry out for help. Your position is being defended and I hear it, but I hope it can evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, under the previous legislature, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. In May 2021, nine employees, according to our information, continued to receive a pension paid in Belgium by the German State after their engagement in the Wehrmacht, and for one of them in an SS division. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for Hitler. As is well known, in order not to receive compensation from the German State, one must be considered a war criminal. However, despite all the efforts that Germany has made since 1945, which I welcome, it is nevertheless true that only part of the thousands of potential war criminals have been prosecuted. This means that today some people still live in impunity and benefit from it to receive a pension from the German state. One of the demands of the resolution is that data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier, be communicated to the German federal government. Following the exchanges we had with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it appears that on 20 July 2021 the College of Attorneys General indicated, in a letter addressed to the Minister of Justice: "(...) can only agree with your wish to respond to the request made by the House in its resolution of 14 March 2019 to have the beneficiaries of German military pensions identified, even though only a few still remain today (...) but can therefore only suggest that you possibly request from your counterpart of the Interior the production of this list of persons who were banned for perpetuity of civil and political rights born before 1928. It will then be up to him to decide." Minister, given the high symbolic value of this decision and the advanced age of those affected by the expectation of the establishment of a scientific committee that would work on this heavy issue, could you tell me whether you intend to move forward along the lines indicated by the College of Attorneys General?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u88	Mr. Lacroix, in your question, you mention a letter from the Attorney General in which he suggested that the Minister of Justice contact me with a view to producing a list of persons whose civil and political rights were prohibited in perpetuity, born before 1928. On 9 February 2021, the Department of Justice did indeed submit a request to the National Registry for consultation in order to obtain the names of persons born before 1928, still alive, who were reportedly sentenced to the deprivation of civil and political rights, as were all convicted of acts of collaboration. The search resulted in a list of 181 names. However, attention was drawn to the possibility that the list might contain names of deceased persons, for whom this information was not included in the National Register, for example, persons who died abroad. I would like to point out that, while any conviction for acts of cooperation leads to the deprivation of civil and political rights, the opposite is not necessarily true, namely, that any deprivation of civil and political rights does not necessarily follow a conviction for collaboration. In order to determine the fate of this list of 181 names, I advise you to address my colleague the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u89	Thank you, Madam Minister. It is really a moral quest that is at the root of this issue, which has been pursued by several democratic parties in this country. My colleagues at DéFI have also made it a tool for questioning the moral responsibilities of a government. I feel like we're going around in circles. I am not talking about you, but it seems to me that some people do not want to take their responsibilities in this country. They think they're old people, they're few. For my part, I was talking about nine collaborators who worked for the SS, one in any case, the others for the Wehrmacht. I'm not talking about mere passive collaboration. Here you're talking about a list of 181 names, which doesn't mean there are 181 people still living. But I would still like to find, in relation to all the victims of the war, all the resistors and all those who struggled for our freedoms, the means of transmitting to the German State documents which enable it to judge whether or not these persons should continue to receive a pension from the German State. I take note of your answer. I'm going to re-examine the Minister of Justice. I really hope that justice will be done – even if it is only moral – before these people die. And this, in memory of all those who have given their lives so that we can live today in freedom, which is threatened especially in Ukraine by Russia. We could return to a horrible situation like that experienced by our Belgian citizens in 1940-45 if we do not stop people like Putin.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, the floods of mid-July are the most important natural disaster that Wallonia has faced in its history. In my region, the basin of the Vesdre, there will undoubtedly be a before and a after. Faced with the magnitude of the tragedy, the Wallonia Parliament had set up a committee of inquiry to analyse these events and learn from them for the future in a range of areas. After 6 months of work, about 50 people interviewed, 120 hours of work, the Commission published its recommendations. There are 161 of them. They are, of course, intended for the Walloon government, but, as you know, the structure of our federal state means that some of them also involve, at a minimum, a reflection at the federal level in order to draw concrete lessons from them, particularly in the area of crisis management, like the learning commission that you have launched. This is obviously the case in the field of your skills. I am thinking in particular of the recommendations concerning the organisation of the National Crisis Centre and the way in which it will cooperate in the future with other actors in crisis management, in particular local authorities, as well as the invitation to the federal authority to provide for a clear inter-area emergency procedure. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, whether you have been aware of the work of this committee of inquiry of the Walloon Parliament and how you intend to respond to the requests addressed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u91	Mrs Bonaventure, first of all, I fully share your view on the need to learn from the July 2021 flood crisis management. It was with this in mind that I decided to have a flood learning study carried out as part of a public procurement. This contract was awarded to an ULB/VUB consortium which has in the meantime begun its work. The recommendations emanating from the learning study and those of the Walloon Parliament's committee of inquiry, as well as many other studies, debriefings, evaluations carried out or under way, will form the basis for the work of the Committee of Experts on Crisis Management that I have just established. This commission, chaired by Honorary Governor Lodewijk De Witte, has the main task of examining crisis management in Belgium and preparing a white paper containing recommendations for improving crisis management. To achieve this, it will propose an organizational, proactive and sustainable model for responding to emergencies. However, it should be noted that several initiatives taken by the Crisis Centre in recent months are already responding to some of the recommendations of the Wallonia Parliament's Committee of Inquiry. For example, the actions undertaken by the Crisis Centre to raise awareness and train the authorities on the B-Alert system can be mentioned. With regard to all of her initiatives, I would like to refer you to my answer to Mrs Chanson's question. In any case, I would like to point out that since the end of 2021 there have been consultations with the federal services of the governors in order to identify the ways in which the municipalities which do not currently benefit from the B-Alert system can best be reached. The departments of the governors of Hainaut, Liège and Namur are already working with the Crisis Centre to promote consultation. Support for the use of the national security portal has also been strengthened. In this regard, an online tool to facilitate the drafting of the various contingency plans, as well as to ensure a degree of standardization in their design and structure, has recently been developed and made operational on the national security portal. In the first half of this year, the Crisis Centre will present this emergency plan editor and the new features of ICMS, successively to each of the federal governors' departments, so that this tool can be used efficiently by the local authorities involved in drawing up an emergency and response plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u92	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for the additional information that I welcome. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that it is on condition that we combine the energies of all the actors involved, not only regional ones, that we can turn the page of these events. We will only be able to do so once we have been confident that everything will have been prepared to minimize the risks. We are counting on you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-30-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic746x.u93	We have come to the end of our work. Madam Secretary, thank you for your many answers.
