ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u1	I suggest we first give the Secretary of State the floor for his introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u2	Mr President, my introductory statement will focus on the cross-cutting aspects of the various questions that have been addressed. There were also a number of specific questions, for example about the Beer Museum and about the Supreme Council for Public Investment. I'll answer it separately. In my introductory statement, I will ask four structural questions. Firstly, what is the status of the recovery of the Belgian economy? Second, what is the status of the implementation of the federal stimulus and investment plan? Thirdly, what about the reduction in the European envelope allocated to Belgium? I have been asked a number of questions on this subject. Fourthly, the REPpowerEU system established by the European Commission in the context of energy insecurity linked to the Ukrainian context. I have also been asked a number of questions on this subject. First question: What is the status of the recovery of the Belgian economy? The Belgian economy recovered faster than expected. In the autumn of 2020, in the midst of the covid crisis, the European Commission projected a 4.6% contraction in Belgian GDP for the period 2020-2021. In its latest May 2022 estimates, the estimates for the period 2020-2021 have been revised to more than 0.1% compared to what had been predicted ex ante, i.e. 4.6 %. The labour market remains in a good situation with employment rates at the aggregate Belgian supply level which have been the highest in several years and certainly higher than before the covid crisis, with, of course, regional disparities which remain important and which require all our efforts. Public investment, which is at the heart of my concerns, because it is an important dimension for accelerating the transition to a low-carbon economy, has registered a marked increase, thanks to the European recovery plan, but also thanks to complementary programming led by the federal government and supported jointly by the different regions of the country. Nevertheless, and despite these rather encouraging notes, today the overall context remains uncertain, with the security situation in Ukraine, which poses a wide range of doubts, particularly as regards energy, and which has an impact on the western economies, in particular that of Belgium. There are also disruptions in aggregate supply, notably the zero covid policy in China, which has had an overall impact on supply chains. There is uncertainty about the monetary tightening associated with the inflating environment. While we can indeed rejoice today at several levels, more uncertainty factors require a study of different scenarios in order to enable the public authorities to react. Second question: What is the status of the implementation of the federal stimulus and investment plan? As a reminder, when we talk about this plan, we are actually talking about several strands and envelopes that were decided at separate times over time, for a total programming of 2.9 billion. What do we find in that amount? A first package of 1.25 billion, which is the federal share in the European Recovery and Resilience Plan. There are also 330 million investments for a supplementary programme resulting from the budgetary control of April 2021. There is an additional investment programme decided in October 2021 of EUR 1 billion, and then a whole series of investment projects decided in March 2022, on the sidelines of the decision on nuclear energy, which I am sure you will remember. So we have almost 3 billion investments coming from different budget envelopes. For the simplicity of monitoring and also for the simplicity of the work of parliamentarians, all these investments have been included in a common methodological follow-up, with the same reporting, mechanism and methodology for monitoring investments, by trying to promote the measurability of the results of the projects, by defining, for each project, what are known as milestones and execution targets, which will enable the execution and completion of the implementation of these investments to be monitored. Efforts have also been made, for all of these projects, regardless of how they are funded and the budget envelope from which they come, to follow up on a regular basis, with a half-yearly reporting frequency. Finally, we are trying to work with you, but also with other public authorities and citizens, in a transparent way, with these progress reports that are published on a website and available to everyone. We are also working on a semi-annual report – due to be published on 30 April and 15 October – the part of which relating to projects financed by the European Commission is due to be submitted to it. It includes all projects that will benefit from future-oriented milestones in the coming year to verify whether they are achieved, continued or at risk. The last report, transmitted to the Commission in April of this year, included seventy-nine milestones and targets for the coming year. Twenty-two were on track (28 per cent); forty-five were on track (57 per cent); while twelve (15 per cent) were under investigation, as they were slightly behind schedule and therefore required due diligence. I have been asked some questions from a budgetary point of view. Based on information from the SPF BOSA monitoring unit, I can tell you that 257 million was committed in 2021 and 2022, mainly on the mobility axes (up to 170 million). In addition, $61 million has been allocated to research and training projects, while $26 million has been allocated to digital projects. Several questions related to the exact status of different measures. To this end, we refer you to the copy of the semi-annual report that will be sent to you in the wake of this meeting. I was also asked about the geographical distribution – particularly by province – of investments. At this stage, since most projects are still being tendered throughout the country, we cannot locate them precisely. It should also be noted that several projects are not localizable by province, including those related to reforms. In addition to these semi-annual reports, of a forward-looking nature, we have to submit further reports to the European Commission, which our teams sometimes discover with shock the machinery. These payment reports are larger in scope and require extensive justification with documentary evidence of the achievement of all milestones and targets. And it is on the basis of these payment reports that the European Commission is releasing the budget tranches. The next payment report is due at the end of June, early July. A second report with a claim for payment will be made just before the end of this year. This will allow us, in terms of cash flow, to pre-finance projects. Some questions related to the communication campaign on these investment plans. The budget used for this campaign corresponds to an existing budget line that was initially dedicated to the National Pact for Strategic Investments under the former government. There was therefore no new budgetary request. This communication campaign is a European obligation. The Recovery and Resilience Fund Regulation concluded with the European Commission requires each Member State to have a communication strategy to raise awareness and ensure national visibility of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Each Member State is also asked to develop a centralized website to give visibility to citizens and the community on projects. The main objective of our campaign is to meet this European requirement. It is important to provide transparency and visibility to parliamentarians and citizens on projects and their stages of implementation. Our will is to feed this site, especially with the semi-annual reports that give an overview of the projects. The third major issue concerns the reduction of the European envelope. As I mentioned in the introduction, economic growth in 2020 and 2021 was significantly higher: ex ante, it was expected to be less than 4.6% over the period 2020-2021; ex post, it is likely to be around 0.1% over this period. This means that the European envelope, which is allocated on the basis of how the economy went through the crisis of the covid-19 over the period 2020-2021, will be lower. The final figures will be released at the end of this month, but in all likelihood our loss of envelope will be around 24%, with a reduction of 5.9 to 4.5 billion euros. This is indeed bad news from a budgetary point of view, but we are in a better position than if it were the other way around, if we were to find ourselves with lower than expected growth. Higher growth ultimately reinforces the choices that the government made to protect the economic fabric and the citizens during the crisis of the Covid-19 by preventing the cyclical crisis caused by health constraints from spreading into the economy by creating a structural shock. If the envelope is reduced, what about maintaining investment programming in the federal government? Does an envelope reduction mean a reduction in investment? We have always argued for an ambitious investment policy, because we believe that public investment in Belgium is at relatively low levels compared to other countries, that it contributes to an important multiplier effect in the economy, especially when the economy is in a structurally difficult period, as at present, and that it faces very important long-term challenges, the first being the climate transition. At the federal level, Kern has decided to compensate the federal government for the loss of European subsidies from other sources of funding. All federal projects will be maintained and implemented. Today, we can assure you that the federal share of achieving the national target of 3.5% of the public investment rate by 2024 will be met. There are a few questions about the Walloon demand for budgetary compensation that has been made. I think you know, here too, my position on the subject. There is indeed a form of double punishment at the Walloon level. The Belgian national envelope was reduced because growth was higher than expected. However, this is a national average that marks regional disparities. Growth in Wallonia has been negatively affected by flooding. Wallonia therefore saw its envelope reduced and, on the other hand, did not benefit from the return effects of greater growth, particularly as a result of floods, which represented a form of double punishment. This request from the Walloon Region has therefore been communicated and will be dealt with in the context of the discussions in the Concertation Committee on the adjusted plan, which are expected to take place in the autumn. As the envelope has been reduced, it will be necessary to work on an adjusted plan. In fact, we are in the middle of this tedious work, which is expected to land no later than this autumn. The last question in the general introduction concerns the REPowerEU plan, the famous investment supplement aimed at strengthening the energy independence of the European Union in the context of a fragility of supply sources linked to Russian dependence. The European Commission has rightly proposed that recovery plans should be re-examined in the light of the new context and the need for the EU to accelerate its energy transition in order to strengthen its energy independence. At this stage, discussions are still under way at European level. We expect them to land in the middle of the fall. Until then, our work within the federal government is essentially to ensure that this plan is adequately funded and that Belgium can count on it. First of all, with regard to the first dimension, ensuring that the plan is adequately financed, there are indeed a few remarks about the volume of investment foreseen in this plan. The European Commission refers to an amount of EUR 300 billion. This amount is not new money made available to the Member States but consists of recycling of European structural funds on the one hand and recycling of loans not used in the RRF, on the other hand, for about two hundred billion. In fact, the new resources made available by the European Commission for the benefit of the Member States amount to only EUR 20 billion, which is indeed relatively small. We therefore urge, in consultation with our colleagues in the federal government, to call for more European resources, and to support this legitimate ambition to strengthen Europe's energy independence from Russia. This intention contributes to the same objective, which is the decarbonisation of energy sources. Several proposals are under consideration, in particular the conversion of part of the unused RFF (Recovery and Resilience Facility) loans into subsidies, so as to avoid debt translation at the individual level of the Member States. A change in RRF loan conditions would make them more attractive. In the context of a recovery in inflation and a potential rise in interest rates for Member States, the spread between a loan at EU level and a loan at Member State level could increase. The Union will therefore find ways to attract its loans. Finally, we believe that a reflection on the European Union's own resources must be accelerated in order to be able to pursue an investment policy that would both accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy and enhance energy independence. A second important issue on Report EU concerns the allocation key. In its first draft, the European Commission has planned to allocate its additional resources according to a distribution key identical to that of the Covid Recovery Plan funds. Of course, that makes little sense. It could be understood that the key to the distribution of the investment amounts of the recovery plan is allocated according to the impact of the covid on the economies. This makes far less sense for funds aimed at accelerating energy independence. Other criteria could be considered, such as criteria based on energy independence, criteria based on the share of renewables in the energy mix, or the energy intensity of the economy. We have made these remarks to the Commission to ensure that the reflection on the key is not ignored, by proposing alternative keys that could have a significant impact on the amount that would be allocated to Belgium. Here too, discussions are under way between the European Commission and the Member States. They will be completed this fall. These are subjects that we follow closely. We will not fail to inform the committee on this. There were still some specific questions about the Beer Museum and the Higher Council for Strategic Investments. I suggest you answer it a little later.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, it's good to see you. That's the sixth time this year. So we have not seen each other very often during the past parliamentary year; hopefully this will happen more often. Either way, our commitment is there. About half of the questions you received came from the N-VA and next year will be no different. The issues for which you are responsible are high on our agenda. We are very interested in everything about public investment. First of all, I regret that we are not seeing your beautiful slides and presentations, with which you communicate, today. You've set up a whole engine to make overviews and statistics, which you also publish on social media, which is good, and I honestly expected some show today. I had hoped that you would bring transparency directly here today by means of your own presentation. When the President announced an introductory statement from the Secretary of State, I was satisfied, but in fact you simply answered the questions we have put, when I expected to act proactively and show. You have all the elements in your hands to bring that show, all the visual aspects are there, but you do nothing about that in Parliament. I regret that, because it is not just about show, but also about content. You could suggest clearly and transparently what you are doing. Now we must respond orally to a number of oral statements, which is not ideal. Secondly, your basic approach is still not right. You say we should not complain too much, because our economy has grown faster. I quickly looked it up in the Spring Forecast of the European Commission: this year the Belgian economy is growing by 2%, while in the European Union it is growing by 2.7 percent. We're growing slower than anything else. In your opinion, the labour market is positive and we are continuing to grow faster and faster. You seem to have missed the National Bank's communication that the employment rate will be 72% by 2027. So you're never gonna make it to 80%. You state that our country performs well in the field of public investment. Again according to Spring 2022 Economic Forecast, public investment will fall by 0.1 % in 2022 compared to 2021, while they will increase by 3.1% in the euro area. In the Autumn 2021 Economic Forecast, only six months earlier, a 2% increase in public investment was predicted. However, this year they will fall by 0.1%, while the rest of the euro area is doing much better. All the countries of the European Union will make more public investments, except Spain and Ireland. It is not the first time that I have made that point, and I will continue to make it every time in the hope that the reality of the figures will finally descend. We don't have good prospects. The parameters aren't right. Pretending that the labour market rate is automatically going to work, creating jobs on the assembly line and doing so much better than everything else is just wrong in fact. I therefore call on you once again and will continue to do so in order not to do so and to bring down the reality of the figures. With regard to the state of affairs in the dossiers cited, it is good that you have listed a number of figures and indicate that additional documents will be delivered to Parliament when they are sent to the European Commission. We want to have access to the documents and not just to have a presentation of them orally. So we want information on the prospects, percentages and possible delays not only at meta level but at project level. This is, of course, specifically about the federal government projects for which you are responsible, and not about the Länder. That is the least that can be delivered to Parliament, with a regional and provincial breakdown. A few months ago you gave the figures in the French-speaking press, not coincidentally for the province of Hainaut. You stated at that time that you would make that exercise for all the provinces. It's a little weird that it was possible back then. You then appeared in the media to highlight the beautiful story of the investment agenda. That was also tangible for the people, not only at a meta level, but very close, as much as possible broken down, even provincially. Today the answer is that these figures cannot be given provincially. There's a conflict there. You've done it in the past, so I expect it to be possible. I really hope that we will see more of you here in Parliament. We have had an exchange of views on this in the past. I'm glad you're here today to tell the story. I personally hope that you will see at least two, ideally four times, in Parliament, in view of the reports you have to do about Europe. Every time these communications take place, Parliament is preferably informed proactively about exactly what is happening. Each committee has its own style and approach. I do not know how things work here in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda, but at least in the Committee on Finance and Budget, Mrs De Bleeker comes forward with Excel tables and presentations when she has to report to the European Commission. Moreover, your dossier is in line with the discussion in the Committee on Finance and Budget, because you should be reporting. This is something other than what is traditionally being done in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda. I continue to hope for your willingness to discuss your dossiers in the Committee on Finance and Budget. They form a logical whole with those of the Secretary of State for the Budget. Thirdly, there is a piece of the proposed 5.9 billion European aid. How much exactly, we will know at the end of the month, as we have been told for six months. In fact, we've known for six months that it's going to be about 1.3 or 1.4 billion less. That figure is never fully confirmed, but is becoming more and more secure. Today you are warning us that it is going to be 1.4 billion less, but that you are still waiting for the Commission's official response. Actually, we do. You continue to take that off as good news and call the less-income the proof that we are doing better economically. Of course, that's only half the truth. We are getting less money, because there is a bad formula for the distribution has been agreed. The parameters are simply set unfairly. I can recommend to you and to the other colleagues the report of the interesting hearing in yesterday's Committee on Finance, in which the National Bank literally states that we will also have to pay effectively the entire financial book of the European Union. That money must therefore come from the Member States. The National Bank also literally said that we have to pay more than we will get back. Besides, we're getting less than what was planned. This is then spread as positive news, because the economy is growing, while it is growing slower than in the rest of the European Union. Something's not right here. If growth in the European Union is 2.7% and ours is 2%, then we are doing worse and yet we are being fooled on all sides. The agreement is not a good one, and experts are now in agreement: 1.4 billion less is simply not right. Let me now turn to the point made by Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo. Wallonia has had a very difficult time because of the flood, which it had no control over. However, it did have control over other matters, such as economic policy. I understand that Wallonia is asking for compensation for the lower income compared to the lower amount we get from the European Union. You said that this will be cleared up in the Conciliation Committee in the autumn. I can only observe that the budget of your federal government has in the meantime assumed the same distribution of those lower revenues, the way in which the other revenues are distributed and no percentages have been adjusted. I hear that this is also the agreement between the Länder and I assume that this will not change. If that is the case, I am interested to know whether you have had an exchange of views with the Secretary of State for Budget De Bleeker. In any case, nothing has yet been seen in the tables which it has recently presented to Parliament. I'll go into communication. My associate obliges me to sit on Instagram, I don't like that myself, either Facebook. I am more concerned with Twitter, where a debate can be held and arguments scanned. I think that's a better medium, although I admit it doesn't always bring out the best in people. It's interesting, though. On Instagram I see constant publicity passing by from you and from NextGenerationEU. I assume that colleagues will get them too, or else I will be specifically targeted, which is also possible. That happens almost every day, but I've seen you only have 136 followers. I don't know much about Instagram, but I know enough to know that this isn't much. Your Twitter page now has 80 followers. I know something about Twitter, so I know this isn't much. My question is, above all, to clarify what you are doing in the field of communication. You have said that you have asked nothing new for communication and that you are simply using budget lines that already existed under the Michael administration and are now being activated. However, you did not mention any amounts. What amounts are being used effectively? What objectives do you have in terms of reach and followers? How exactly is that dealt with? What's your strategy? Simply referring to the European Commission's obligation to communicate is not enough to fully exercise our parliamentary right of control. How often is the website viewed? Who does that? How does the information flow? How is the information picked up in the broad media? Such questions can rightly be put in Parliament. Especially when I see these things on the social media, I'd like to know what's going on. The pot of money for REPowerEU is much smaller but it is still significant. If that is distributed in the same bad way as the money from the corona fund (RRF), we get about 268 million euros. If it is organised in a better way, taking into account, among other things, sustainability and investments in green energy, it will be around EUR 506 million. That is not yet the 5.9 billion minus 1.4 that we can get from the European corona funds, but it is still significant, a few hundred million. I am watching this very closely, also in various discussions with the Prime Minister, as he is conducting the talks, and with the Minister of Finance, as it is still not quite clear who is responsible for the negotiations. When I question him about that, he likes to tap that ball at you, Mr Secretary of State. That's still a weird game. Mr Secretary of State, REPowerEU will be an effective rematch, or certainly the re-launch of the government and Prime Minister De Croo. We expect to see parameters that seem to serve not only Mr De Croo's European agenda, but also Belgium's agenda. I will stick to those somewhat more vulgar words, because they are sufficiently clear. Finally, I would like to ask that we be able to see you a little more often. I've already made that point. That is why I asked my supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u5	Mr De Smet had also put forward questions, but he is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your introduction, which prevents us from asking certain questions. You indicate a decrease of the European manna of the order of 1.4 billion euros compared to the amount announced. You then estimate the REPowerEU plan to be only 20 billion. On the basis of a proportional rule applied to GDP, this means 660 million for Belgium. You're saying it's even less? In any case, it is not this sum that will compensate for the decline in European money. You are announcing that the federal government will maintain its plans and compensate for the losses. However, in last week's Trends-Trends, you said that inflation will have some consequences, so that our ambitions should be revised downwards in several projects. What should be concluded from this? Are these investments or other projects? Could you enlighten us? What of the Regions? You mentioned a particular request from Wallonia because of the floods that hit her. Walloon Minister-President Elio Di Rupo, whom you know well, called for the solidarity of the federal government. I hear you feel that this is a legitimate request. However, what is the position of the federal government, which you do not represent on your own? According to the Prime Minister, his answer was negative. I quote: "If there is a loss of funding, it will be for everyone." He even considered that the federal government had already granted Wallonia a huge loan in this case. Despite your obvious openness, should we not conclude with the Prime Minister's remarks that we are moving instead towards a no? With regard to the target of 3.5% public investment for the end of the legislature in 2024, the Federal Bureau of the Plan has just published its economic outlook 2022-2027, according to which GDP would reach €591 billion by 2024. By calculating 3.5% of this amount, I get EUR 20.7 billion. However, you had answered one of my written questions explaining that the amount of public investment projected in Belgium for 2024 would wait 17.4 billion euros. So between $17.4 billion and $20.7 billion, there is 3.3 billion difference. Do you confirm this shortfall of €3.3 billion? In an interview with Trends-Trends, you indicate that there are areas that are too much aided. You say: "Company profits have never been as high as in 2021. Perhaps we have even done a little too much in some areas. We helped people who didn't need it." You say that we must compensate, that the state has helped businesses and that it is time for them to do the same. Can you specify which sectors or companies have received too much state aid? This would be useful in the discussions on the legitimate contribution of what can be called crisis profitors or war profitors. With regard to Ageas, which still has a link with investment policy and state policy, you say to Trends-Trends: "In Belgium too, the state must re-approve its central role in the economy. The entry of the State into the capital of the insurer Ageas is a step in this direction. This company has one in three households, 7,000 employees and 20% of Belgian debt on its balance sheet." This percentage surprises me because Ageas' total assets amount to around EUR 100 billion, while 20% of the debt amounts to EUR 100 billion. An article in L'Echo talks about 5% of the debt, I wonder if you've confused 5% and 20%. More fundamentally, how will taking a minority stake in Ageas give power to the state? Rather, is it not the private – Ageas in this case – that dictates to the state what to do? We are a little far from a re-appropriation of the central role of the state in the economy; it would rather be a role of the private sector. Would this money that the SFPI puts in Ageas, with budgetary consequences on dividends paid to the State, not be better used in real public investments over which the State has real control and which follow a policy decided by the State? I'd like to hear your opinion on that. All the more so since the same day, the newspaper L'Écho read that Ageas and FEB were addressing the government to provide it with a white paper in which they expressed the desire of the private sector to participate more in large public investments, via PPPs (public/private partnerships). Should we see the mirror of your statement in Trends-Trends in this call from Ageas and FEB? Are PPPs the way forward? I am quite critical of this formula where it is often the state that takes the risks and the private sector that makes the decisions and profits. In your opinion, is this the way forward and, if so, what are the benefits of such an agreement? Unfortunately, Mr President, I will have to be absent because I have to attend the Conference of Presidents. We started the commission a little late. My co-worker will write down the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u7	Mr President, for the sake of form, since the Secretary of State first answered a whole series of questions, I ask the services of the House to take my question, which I had tabled in a very formal manner, as it was.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u8	I heard my colleague from the N-VA who came today for a show, as I came here for a transparency exercise and answers to my questions, including the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience (PRR). Since there was no pyrotechnic show, I can understand Mr Loones' disappointment. But when, like me, we were just expecting to see an exercise of transparency and answers to questions, we cannot at least be disappointed. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers to my questions; I thank him for coming to Parliament to take stock and provide us with a snapshot of the situation. On 13 July, it will be a year since the RRP was approved for Europe. Important work has already been done. You called him back today. This work was carried out as soon as the government was formed. Belgium had also been one of the first countries in the Union to benefit from the financing agreement. I really wanted to thank you. It is a plan of recovery and resilience that is very much expected. The resulting effects are not far away and this exercise is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u9	As far as I am concerned, I have had the answers to my questions and I am at least reassured about your willingness to continue working for this recovery and resilience plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I think it is important for us to have answers, but I would have liked to have a presentation like Mr Loones. I also think it is important not to give a good news show about the relance, because the figures are actually going more in the opposite direction: less growth, less budgets. I believe that sobriety commands us to be honest about the employment rate and about the fact that public investment is falling compared to that in the other EU countries. I believe that we really need to work harder for this and that we should not let ourselves go to sleep. I wonder if the High Council for Public Investment has already started? Has it already been compiled and is it already operational? What's the status? What exactly is the target? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the infrastructure? Have these delays been caused by the challenges we face in the construction sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, this was an interesting debate, but I would have liked to have more power points and so on. I think it is very important that we exchange much more thoughts on this. It's a little too important to do so little. I hope that we will be able to follow this up more quickly in future in this committee. I therefore share the view of my fellow Members. I had a few more questions. The estimated revenue from the RRF will be reduced. Belgium received EUR 5.9 billion, but 30% of it was still indicative. How much do we risk losing? How much less revenue would it be? What are the expectations in this respect? How will these revenues be distributed among the different entities? What are the consequences of this reduction in revenue for the federal projects? Are all federal projects still going on? If so, how will they be financed? Or will one choose what goes on and what doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u12	Mr Loones, Mrs Verhelst, you apparently expected more presentation and more show. Mr Loones used the word'show', but Parliament does not need a show. I studied in Belgium and the United States. The form of a presentation by a teacher is different in Belgium than in the USA. Everything is online and if you want to have a show or detailed information, you can view it online, just like any citizen in our country can. The most interesting conversation is the conversation with the specific questions and discussions on specific points. If you consider this important, I can also give a presentation of half an hour or one, two or three hours about the projects and a data visualization of the projects, but all data is available online for you and for all citizens in Belgium. Mr President, I am at the disposal of the Members of Parliament and I am happy to come here when you do, but I thought it would be more interesting to answer your questions than to give a presentation that can be consulted online. As regards the growth figures, as mentioned by Mrs Verhelst and Mr Loones, I think we are not talking about the same thing. Mr Loones, you are talking about the growth forcast. A forcast is the expected growth in the coming months. In my speech, however, I mentioned past growth, namely in 2020 and 2021. Growth in 2020 and 2021 was indeed higher in Belgium than the European average. Indeed, the growth expected in the coming months is lower than the European average. Why is that the case? In a cyclical shock in an economy there is a catch-up effect. If growth is higher at the beginning of the period, in this case 2020 and 2021, it is partly normal that the catch-up effect is lower in the second phase. That's exactly what the National Bank says. Belgium's slightly lower performance is due in particular to performance well above the European average in the period 2020-2021, and thus to a catch-up effect of the other European countries in 2022. Actually, we're both right. In 2020-'21, growth was higher in Belgium. That's one of the reasons why we got a smaller envelope from the Recovery and Resilience Facility. It is therefore a mechanical effect that our growth potential is lower in 2022: the catch-up effect is lower for Belgium. That is exactly what the National Bank and the Central Council for Business say. The catch-up effect of European countries is higher in 2022 because growth in Belgium was faster in 2020 and 2021. It is a mechanical reaction of the economy to a structural shock, namely the shock of the covid-19. As far as the presence in Parliament is concerned, I have already replied. I am also available to the Committee on Finance and Budget, but I do not decide on that. If there's a question, I'm always available. With regard to the return effect mentioned by Mr Loones, we cannot calculate any return effects on the funds of the recovery plan. This can be done on structural policies and regional funds because the financing mechanism of the European Union is based on contributions from the Member States: Belgium contributes up to X and receives Y from the Structural Funds. The special feature of the RRF funds is that, for the first time in the history of the European Union, they are funds that do not come from Member States' contributions. The RRF is financed by EU own resources raised at European level. There is no correspondence between a State's contribution and what it obtains in return. These are Europe's own means. It is for this reason that the European Union has acquired an additional dimension during the health crisis: it is now creating its own financial instruments and potentially, in the context of similar crises but perhaps of another nature – energy security or other – it will be able to reuse these kinds of devices. That's what she might do for the REPowerEU plan. With regard to communication, we have recycled the funds of a line dating from the Chancellery of Prime Minister Charles Michel. I'm more like you on Twitter than on Instagram, but it seems you have to be present on all networks when you do politics in 2022. The aim was not to develop large platforms on social networks, but to have an integrated website that is as transparent and attractive as possible, and on which citizens can play. I also encourage you, if you have not already done so, to visit the nextgenbelgium.be website. It benefits from many positive comments, in particular from other European Member States that copy the scheme. The European Union has ranked it as one of the best communication devices for RRF plans. The idea is to be able to select data such as the subject and the level of power, and to see what projects are and their impact in CO2 production, the cost, the timing, in order to provide transparency and fluidity to citizens. We are quite satisfied with the number of visits, since the number is 45,000 for the first week and the average visit time is very long. Usually, a visit to a site lasts about 30 seconds, while the average duration here is nearly 10 minutes. Citizens are therefore very interested in the data proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u14	I have to say that I have also visited him a few times but not 10,000 times. If you want, I'll see if there are visits to Ostend and, if that is the case, I'll tell myself that it's often about you. So here's the communication aspect. With regard to the issue of Mr. RepowerEU's allocation key. Van Hees, before he leaves us, if we applied today the same key as for the RRF, 270 million euros would be allocated to Belgium. It's not only weak, but it doesn't make sense either, because somewhere it doesn't make sense to apply the same criteria as the RRF. I recall that this key was negotiated in the summer of 2020 when the current government was not yet in office. It is therefore not the current Belgian federal government that has negotiated the key at European level. That is why I am telling you that this government has brought to the attention of the European partners the fact that this key needs to be re-discussed because it is unjustified and the application of other keys, in particular on the basis of the criterion of energy independence, renewable shares, etc. could lead to a higher envelope for Belgium. Some simulations show that using criteria to be refined, but such as energy independence or energy dependence, could lead to amounts allocated to Belgium that would potentially be 1.5 times or 2 times higher. Mr. Van Hees also asked me about the impact of inflation. I'll tell him when I see him when he's gone, but I'm glad to see that Mr. Van Hees reads the Trends-Trends. That's nice! There would indeed be an impact of inflation. The amounts will not be affected because the federal government will compensate. But in fact, in the context of the renovation programmes for buildings, for example, two years ago, with 100 euros, more square metres could be renovated than today because of a series of inflations, particularly on the price of materials. Today, we are asking our different administrations to reflect, realistically and according to the envelopes that will not diminish – it is important to say that we will compensate – on how to anticipate the impact of inflation that will be important, especially in the construction sector. The last question from Mr. Van Hees is on AGEAS. I want to say we need to know what you want. We come out of twenty-five years when the state has gradually disengaged from the economy. This is seen in Belgium where important decision-making centres have been lost in industry, in the banking sector, etc. because it has sometimes been too naive and believed that the issue of corporate ownership, especially of multinational companies, is not involved. In strategic decisions, however, we can see that there is an effect of seats and ownership that plays. Today, we are taking a step in the opposite direction. I also expected that the PTB colleagues would welcome the fact that the federal state is entering capital again as a major player in the financial sector, not to be a majority, in any case, at this stage, but to have governance guarantees, having an influence on decisions as strategic as those that can impact employment. As far as AGEAS is concerned, there were indeed strategic considerations of this kind. He's a very big employer. He is a structuring financial player for the Belgian economy. We can therefore rejoice at this attitude of taking back a foot to have a strategic influence on such important players as insurers, since AGEAS is the country's first insurer. As for Walloon demand, this is a subject that needs to be addressed. At this stage, we cannot foreshadow the Codeco discussion that will take place in the context of the debate on the adjusted plan to be held this autumn. Indeed, all regions will have to adjust their plans according to the reduction of envelopes. For the 3% and the technical estimate in relation to the evolution of GDP, our technicians can look at the figures. There are effects of inflation on GDP. But, at this stage, we have a fairly precise monitoring of the amounts of investment, of the additional programming of the Regions to ensure that they are in line with the objective. Mr Loones, to return to your first question and to your disappointment, moreover, shared not having had a presentation, know that I regret to have disappointed you. If you wish, if the committee so requests, I can provide for a 15 minutes, 30 minutes or an hour's presentation on the various projects, depending on what you want. Be aware that I am at your disposal. But in an hour-and-a-half or two-hour debate, I found it more interesting to answer questions than to present elements that you can find on the website. If necessary, I am also available to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, it is indeed a bit of adjustment to see what the pattern of expectations is. That's gonna work out. I do hope that we can get it planned and that it will happen effectively, that we will see that presentation. I'd like to see your communication in the media. I notice that journalists receive these reports, that they are not only referred to the website but are also effectively informed. Otherwise, they are very committed journalists and you know others than I do, because everyone is over-questioned and has time too short. It is therefore useful when information is bundled and presented. On this one, I'm definitely asking party to do that next time. You referred to the National Bank, which is about the whole discussion about growth, about our growth potential. Because we have lost less, we can now win less, to sum up briefly. Belgium's growth potential today is not a closed box. In the field of labour market, Belgium has the greatest growth potential of all European countries. The economy is not a closed whole that can move. The simple reference to the fact that we have lost a little less and can now win a little less is not even half the truth. The complete truth, if you are referring to the communication of the National Bank, is that the National Bank says that the current situation, with the policy that is being pursued now, is intenable, therefore untenable. I do not think you have replicated Mr Verhelst's question about investment in the construction industry. If you look at the European tables, you can see that in Belgium they are rising by 0.5% and in the euro area by 1.6 %. The average in Europe is therefore three times better in terms of investment in the construction sector than what is happening here. Then I'll come back to the finals. You say that we cannot actually calculate exactly what we are putting in there and what comes out of it, because they are European taxes, even if there really are no real European taxes, we all know that. I can only refer to what I said in my introduction. I find that the National Bank can and will do it. I therefore assume that the expertise she brings to the table can also be used or identified as relevant in a political debate. I want to finish with the beginning. We really need to do that, colleagues. We must get a detail of where we stand and where we are going in this committee or in another committee. This can be done with fireworks, if you like, Mr Prévot. That's not the show I aspire to, of course. I especially hope to see the show we see on social media. It may also be put in the same order in Parliament, with dates, figures and facts put in an attractive way, as we know you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u16	A show isn't for me either. It could also be forwarded to the members of the committee in advance. Then maybe I would've gone over that. It's more professional if we don't have to find this on the Internet or social media. You did not answer the question about the Supreme Court for Public Investment. Is it established and operational? What's the status of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u17	That question will be noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not answer for my colleague Marco, because he is the specialist in finance. At the level of AGEAS, I say that we should rejoice if the state behaves as such, as a defender of citizens. However, it does not prevent, for example, that Belfius, a bank wholly owned by the State, and thus under the supervision of the board of directors, behaves like any other private bank. While even the Minister of Economy says he opposes the closures of windows and even distributors (this is even more serious), they still follow the same logic. So, to rejoice at the entry of the state into AGEAS, I do not see the reason because they will still behave like other operators on the market. That's our astonishment! But of course, we are for a public service, even at the level of insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic826x.u19	Well, I'll try, Mr. President, to end up in apotheosis on the Biermuseum! To Mrs Verhelst's question about the High Council for Strategic Investments and its implementation, the principle of setting up this body was approved by the federal government at last October's budgetary conclave with the aim of combining the quantity and quality of investment while identifying the obstacles to public investment. This senior board will have three dimensions: an analytical advice to improve understanding of the state of public investment in Belgium; a strategic dimension to facilitate and continuously identify investment opportunities for the State; and a methodological decision to develop the tools and procedures that facilitate the deployment of public investment. As regards the progress of work, a first proposal was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 25 March and the Council of Ministers instructed us to operationalise it. Now we are in a phase of working with the administration to operationalize the proposal that was endorsed by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2022. At the same time, contacts were made with the federated entities, where our proposal attracted a lot of interest. So, in terms of timing, we hope to be able to table an operational and legally adequate proposal to the federal government before the summer and we hope to be able to start setting up this body again this year. I once again thank all colleagues and colleagues from the federated entities who are working with us on this subject, which is certainly not a sexy subject but is part of the major public investment programming. One last word about the Beer Museum in the centre of Brussels. Only the renovation of the historic building, i.e. the Brussels Stock Exchange Building, is financed by our PHV to the amount of 10.8 million euros. The renovation will improve the building's energy performance. There is also an additional amount of 100,000 euros from Beliris for lighting the facades of the building. The Biermuseum itself is not financed, but the renovation of the building. The museum itself will be financed by our friends from the brewery sector and by the City of Brussels. However, we do not have specific figures.
