ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic781x.u1	Madam Minister, on 3 February the Court of Auditors published an interesting report on the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the continuity of federal public services. The Court of Auditors concluded that the continuity of the services of the federal administrations was ensured during the COVID-19 crisis, despite the measures that could have hindered this, such as the exemption from duty or corona parents' leave, and despite measures that increased the workload such as the temporary posting of staff and the extension of telework. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors states that increased digitisation and automation represent a remarkable step forward, but that such progress should not be at the expense of vulnerable users, who may be the victims of the digital divide. Finally, the Court of Auditors points out that the favourable conclusions must be seen in a context of crisis management and therefore in a limited time frame. The Court of Auditors warns that the considerable efforts of government staff cannot be stopped for an extended period without affecting the well-being of the employees and the continuity of federal government services. Madam Secretary, what conclusions do you draw from the Court of Auditors' report? What will you do with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on the long-term impact of measures and digitalisation on the well-being of federal officials? Do you already have more recent data on the impact of the COVID-19 measures on staff and services? What was the impact in 2021? Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic781x.u2	Mrs Platteau, it is fair to say that the staff of the administration have shown a particular adaptability to maintain service levels. There was also a great deal of solidarity between the organisations through the provision of staff to support organisations that had to deal with an increase in work. The Court of Auditors mentions, among other things, the Department of Exemptions, the organisation of telework, the extension of runway contracts and the special federal forces. What works well, I'd like to anchor structurally. We have already taken a step in this direction with the new royal decision on teleworking. Steps have also been taken with regard to runway contracts. A permanent focus, rightly cited by the Court of Auditors, is business continuity. While leading officials were already working on this before the pandemic, the crisis has shown that there are indeed still steps to be taken. That is why I have asked all leading officials to continue to make this a spearhead. Digitisation undoubtedly has an impact on efficiency, enabling the government to concentrate even more on its core service tasks. We need to go further along this road, albeit with attention to the digital divide. Physical contact between citizens and the federal government must remain possible for me. We also note that various forms of communication have been used to inform citizens. At present, my question is being examined, for example, by the government's contact points in order to streamline that external communication. Citizens must be able to find the right information quickly and adequately. Today there is still far too much fragmentation. I hope to be able to receive the results of this research during the course of this year. Although, overall, we saw a decline in absenteeism, there was indeed a significant impact on the well-being of civil servants. The right to deconnection is therefore an important aspect that we have recently introduced. Another point of concern is ergonomics, in line with the new regulations on telework, which we have worked out. Empreva will also offer tools that guide employees to set up a good home job. In 2021, we also made a strong commitment to mental well-being, including a national campaign and targeted actions for civil servants. All the information I know shows that the continuity of the service was indeed guaranteed in 2021, while officials have set a good example, with on average more than 80% teleworking during the periods of mandatory telework. However, not everything is teleworkable. The figures show that the government is able to make hybrid works a success, which represents profits for both civil servants and citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic781x.u3	Thank you for your detailed answer. We can indeed recognise that the federal officials have shown a particular adaptability and have shown themselves to be very adaptable during the crisis to ensure continuity of service. We can all be very happy about that. It is good that you want to continue working on what actually went well with your KB on telework. There are very important steps to be taken. Indeed, we must continue to focus on digitalisation, but with continued attention to the digital divide and taking into account the fact that citizens can also be efficiently helped through physical or telephone contact with an official or file manager. We certainly need to strike a balance between the burden on civil servants and the efficiency of the service. I'm sure you'll keep an eye on that balance as well. It is interesting to note that there was less absenteeism; homework undoubtedly plays a role in this and so we should certainly keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-10-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic781x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the following questions are not present. Their questions lapse. We are dealing with questions put together. Question No 55025134 by Mrs Van Peel and Mr 55025753C by Mrs De Jonge Mr Vicaire. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Vindevoghel's 55025235C and Mr Senesael's 55026398C were postponed.
