ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u1	Minister, I know you're not a fan of it, but since my questions are very detailed, I'm referring to my questions as I submitted them in writing for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u2	Mrs. Van Peel, you're asking follow-up questions. I refer first of all to my earlier answer to your oral question No. 55025428. Here I repeat the essence again. As you know, there is a distinction between the sickness certificate (medical certificate), which is governed by the employment contract law and which may give rise to supervision by an inspector, and the certificate of medical incapacity, required to obtain a benefit after the period covered by the guaranteed wage has expired. It belongs to the obligations of an employee to inform his employer of his incapacity to work for health reasons, which he must prove with a medical certificate drawn up by a prescriber. It must state the duration of the incapacity for work and whether or not the worker may leave the home. Diagnosis data are not included because they are considered medical data. Here the rules on guaranteed wages apply and the employer may also apply for medical examinations. This does not therefore fall within the competence of the benefit insurance sector, but within the competence of the employer in accordance with the provisions of labour law and the provisions resulting from the employment regulations or collective agreements applicable in the undertaking. The certificate of medical incapacity, on the other hand, for workers unable to work after the period of guaranteed pay for health reasons, is more confidential in nature. It is made up by the prescriber and transferred by the worker to the doctor of the sickness fund. It contains data on diagnosis, symptomatology and/or functional disorders and any occupational or social difficulties. On that basis, the consultant will judge and determine whether or not a period of recognition of incapacity for work is covered by benefit insurance. In case of doubt, a medical examination may be organised by the consulting doctor. The rules governing the assessment of incapacity for work are of public policy so that an assessment of incapacity for work is possible at any time and may give rise to a possible decision to put an end to incapacity for work. If a fraud situation were to be discovered, the regulatory framework applicable would make it possible to put an immediate end to the recognition and hence the right to benefits. Articles 232 to 235 of the Social Criminal Code concern infringements designed to obtain unjustified social benefits or reductions in social contributions. Of course one can only speak of a social advantage if the insured person is covered by social security, in this case benefit insurance. If the so-called goodwill attestations relate to a short period of incapacity for work, most insured persons will still receive guaranteed wages from the employer during this period. They will not yet be able to claim benefits. Article 139 of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits provides for the powers of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service (DGEC). A check on the unjustified prescription of a sickness certificate or a certificate of incapacity for work is not in itself the responsibility of this service. I have also explained this in the answer to oral question No. 55025428. The DGEC's control would then be limited to the consultation that the health care provider, for example, charges to health insurance. If the health care provider has made such a benevolence certificate but does not charge any health insurance, then the RIZIV service does not even have control powers. Hence the importance of sensitizing the prescribers and the insured about that problem of the sick notes. The demand for control in practice is much less evident and therefore follows a second line. I've tried explaining that in previous answers. A sanction can only be imposed if an infringement has been effectively committed. This infringement is about social benefits, and so the Social Criminal Code applies. If someone has not been wrongly paid benefits, the Social Criminal Code does not apply. Since an insured person is not entitled to an invalidity benefit from day 1 of the sick leave, it is by definition always preceded by a different period. So, if I understand your question correctly, I do not see how that could be contrary to the Social Criminal Code. That penal code has its own scope, and therefore its own limits. If an advisory physician is confronted with an unjustified benevolence test after the period of guaranteed pay, he will of course not acknowledge it, which is quite obvious. However, if that falls during the period of the guaranteed wage, it is not within the competence of the RIZIV. You also ask questions from a broader perspective. You ask me, for example, what I do about prescribing in these different contexts. In the context of the project 'Recommendations of recovery: incapacity for work, recovery and route Back To Work and the fact sheets of incapacity for work and recovery, which I spoke to you about earlier, we received feedback. According to the probable duration of disability per pathology, the fact that doctors are able to support their patients on their return to work and on the basis of the probable duration of disability for such pathology is now also examined. We got feedback on those chips. I think I said before that we organized it with the doctors. Möbius' advisors already made a summary of that feedback, and the project steering committee has already made a number of improvements. The comments on the pathology sheets can be divided into three categories. Sometimes it is said that they are not useful because the remark is out of scope, or too specific to be taken further into account in the development of the chips. It is sometimes recognised that these are comments which may be taken into account. Sometimes the comments are considered to be very relevant and absolutely must be included in the final version of the sheets. The material we have built up in this way is now being critically examined by 2 limited working groups, one within Domus Medica and the other within the French-speaking counterpart SSMG. We ask these two scientific associations of general practitioners to identify the improvements which should be made to the data sheets as a matter of priority. However, your question is a little too early, because their comments are expected in the middle of May. The steering committee of the project and Möbius' advisors will make the most important changes in the various instruments and sheets. This means that I assume that the final version of the instruments will be published at the end of June. We will then have an instrument in the response of the general practitioners. Through this renewed focus we maintain the recommendations about the duration of the disability, but at the same time we give handles to general practitioners to start the conversation about the return to work in a timely and appropriate manner. In addition, we draw attention to a possible referral to the back-to-work coordinator or the prevention advisor-work doctor. In the next phase of the project we will explore how to install these chips in the daily practice of the doctors. The members of the National College are of the opinion that these sheets can help improve the medical practice of doctors. They must be built into decision-makers, software programs and so on. I gave a detailed explanation that is located in the world of soft governance. These are recommendations. I have left the Social Criminal Code on the sidelines, because when it comes to sick notes during a period of guaranteed pay, this is not covered by the provisions of the Social Criminal Code or by what we deal with with the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. However, this does not mean that we should not tackle the problem, but I would prefer to raise awareness first on the basis of recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u3	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I will insist on respect for timing, because if your answer took twelve minutes, I will also have to release you to answer the questions in the Public Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u4	It's a new record! Thank you, Minister, for that comprehensive answer. I understand your explanation of the DGEC and the fact that some of it is not responsible. In the facts, apart from all the legal discussions, one of course often follows the other. It's an old very, just to be clear. I have often talked to your colleague De Block about this during the previous legislature. The general practitioners, every entrepreneur or public institution with staff and every OCMW also know that there are some bad apples in there. In most cases, this municipality can be designated by municipality. I once, as chairman of the OCMW, received a prescription from a living wage client for a year of illness, written out with retroactive effect, thus retroactive. That came from a doctor we've seen before with very strange notes. The problem is that we can't get that out. I understand that this is not obvious either. Your predecessor De Block has played for a long time with a kind of data mining approach, but she has never worked it out completely. It therefore includes the short-term certificates. Then one can see the really big differences between doctors. I'm guessing there's gonna be these. It's about a few people, but those few do take care of an entire municipality, because that soon becomes known in the region. This could be dealt with more actively. I hear you're primarily trying to sensitize. However, this is not about those who are going to read the good ones. I hope, Minister, that in the long term there will be another end to your plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to adjust my question a little in the light of the remarkable article in De Standaard yesterday about your presence in committee. I read something there that I suspected when submitting this question, in particular that you are now the only one who is still behind the sanctions for long-term sick people and, above all, that you are completely ignoring the views of the social partners. It must be high-profile for people to have a newspaper article dedicated to this. In a new NAR opinion, the social partners once again unanimously support their position against sanctions for long-term sick in a reintegration path. The Council reiterates the voluntary nature of the re-integration process as a success factor for the pathway. They also resent the attitude of the government. The Council also recalls the commitment of the Government to give full implementation of the opinion and to evaluate its implementation before considering a possible response mechanism. It is therefore regrettable that the government does not follow this approach. The NAR unanimously states that if the government continues with the sanctions, this indicates a lack of respect for the opinions issued on this subject in the context of the social dialogue. That's tough language, if you ask me. Minister, I have a few questions about this remarkable opinion. Is there any scientific research that shows that with a stick behind the door sanctions will go back to work for more long-term sick people? Can you tell us which studies you are based on? Why did you not, as initially promised, propose improvements to Opinion No. have 2099 been implemented and evaluated before implementing new measures? Will you be able to present any new CBAs on this issue to the social partners? What is your timing to finalise the announced legislative changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u6	Mr Colebunders, I am going to confirm what I said yesterday. All these issues are subject to extensive consultation with the social partners, but my starting point is that if we really want to offer opportunities and really want to help people, we can also ask questions in the process. What's this all about? If one sends a questionnaire to people who are able to fill in that questionnaire and if one has offered to help fill in it and people refuse it persistently, one can effectively say that the benefit will be reduced. It's about 2.5 %. Mr Colebunders, there is one point that does not seem to be heard in the debate and which I would like to make very clear. Failure to respond to an invitation for a medical examination would normally result in the full suspension of entitlement to benefit under Article 134 (2) of the ZIV Act. Then it is not about 2.5 % less but about 100 % less. That is why, at the request of the Council of State, we expressly included in the draft law that, in the cases that we envisage, especially if we refuse to fill in the questionnaire, and in this way the process of helping people to go well would replace this very limited financial sanction. In fact, sanctions are being reduced. If, inter alia, on the basis of the questionnaire, a beneficiary is placed in category 4 by the medical adviser, i.e. he considers that he should be able to consider a voluntary adapted work resumption, without valid reason and after notification by registered letter does not respond to an invitation for an initial interview with the coordinator, this limited sanction shall also apply. That seems very logical to me, because otherwise there is no obligation to enter those routes. However, it is logical that people should cooperate in setting up a process that will help them themselves. So I do not see much reason to change my opinion on this. Of course, the government will discuss this further, on the basis of the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u7	Minister, you are stubbornly holding on to the hunt for long-term sick, even though there is no study that shows that sanctions will help the sick. Not only we but all the partners involved have good arguments against it, but you remain stubborn in your position. It is incomprehensible that you, as a socialist, ignore social dialogue. You say you'll take it into account, but the trade unions dispute that. The trade unions and employers unanimously condemned your plans and your way of working in an opinion to another minister. That's unseen. The figures of a study by the Court of Auditors show that more than six reintegration pathways out of ten do not lead to a job. Companies are simply far too choosy, especially with regard to 50-plussers. The fines of EUR 30 per month on average are simply no longer justified as energy bills increase so sharply. The PVDA demands that the government withdraw the sanctions. Your party chairman and your party may want to take advantage of a strong image, but that did not help the 150,000 long-term sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u8	Minister, the unemployment scheme for artists is already much more advantageous than for other unemployed people. This means that many artists are more likely to become dependent on benefits and yet you would like to introduce a new statute which will ease the conditions of access and restore the level of benefits. You opt for a reform in which artists get a host of new 'benefits'. I place advantages between quotes, because I very much doubt whether that is such a gift for those artists. You propose, among other things, that artists' unemployment benefit should no longer fall over time, as is the case with other unemployed people, and that they should have worked less days before they are entitled to that benefit. I have a few questions about this. Why do you choose to introduce a new'specialization' for artists? I'm putting it in quotes because I'm convinced you're not doing them any favours. Is there any particular reason why you would like to introduce a scheme that would encourage artists much less than today to consider a job outside the arts sector if they could not live on their artistic activities? When do you intend to implement the new reform? Can you give me a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u9	Minister, 20 years after you took the first steps on social protection for cultural workers, you announced a new reform of the artwork attestation last week. That artwork attest is more suited to today's needs. Everyone knows that there is a great deal of unpaid work in the cultural sector and that there is also a great deal of precarious statutes. That became more and more the norm. Due to the corona crisis, the vulnerability of the sector was painfully enhanced. We have done a great deal in Parliament to close the loopholes, but we knew at that time that a structural reform was needed to provide the cultural workers with the necessary support and protection. On Friday, the reformed statute was approved by the Council of Ministers. I have a number of questions about this. Thanks to the reform, cultural workers can apply for a work of art certificate from the Artists' Commission. Can you explain what procedure they should follow and what rights the artwork attestation opens? It is very difficult for young start-ups to obtain this status. During the corona crisis we could also see that starters were having a hard time and that it was especially those who fell between the meshes of the net. What measures does the reform provide for for start-up cultural workers, especially at the beginning of their careers, when they need social protection? When would this reform be implemented in practice? Do you have a timetable? Could you also explain the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u10	I myself had a question to ask you on this subject, Minister. Indeed, as my colleague said last week, you announced an agreement with your colleague on the first phase of the reform of the "bad" status of artist. As you may recall, we have been pleased to see significant advances and the federations representing the arts sector as well. But it must be noted that after the publication of the texts on the WITA platform, the enthusiasm fell somewhat, leaving room for more questions on more precise elements. The Upact communicating even by these terms: "We can only see what is granted on the one hand, concerning a positive evolution of the conditions for access and maintenance to the system of specific allowances, is taken over on the other by financial criteria, complex arrangements and dangerously interpretable texts for the granting of the attestation of the workers of the arts." Our astonishment is indeed great and we come here with a will for discussion and understanding. Indeed, the various press releases sent by the federations during the negotiation phase seemed, in our view, to demonstrate regular exchanges between your reform workers and the representatives of the federations. So it is just as a surprise for us. So, do you confirm that the federations – this was the idea from the start of the process – were asked during the negotiation phase, even informally? Do you also confirm that the formal review phase and the request for an opinion will receive your full attention and readjustment if necessary? Finally, do you also confirm that there is a time for effective consultation between the federations, the social partners and the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u11	Madam President, you will allow me to go into this more thoroughly because this is indeed a very important reform. In short, I would like to say that we want to give artists, people who contribute artistically to society through their artistic work, a proper place in our social protection. We want to do that on the basis of the reality of today's artistic sector. That is the first thing I would like to stress, Mrs Vanrobaeys. 20 years ago, I created the artist's statute with some of my colleagues from the federal government. However, compared to 20 years ago, the reality of artistic work evolved considerably. Much more than before, people undertake a sequence of short projects with often also fairly fragmented and fragmented careers and combinations of statutes. There is also a lot of uncertainty. As a result, artists also have much more difficulty finding a good place in our social security. That problem is sharper than 20 years ago and we really had to look for improvements. I would also like to underline that it is not just about the fact that artists are typically people who sit in short-term projects, combine different statutes and have a lot of uncertainty and are often working in a precarious way. Artistic work - and that is the big difference with many other professional activities - inevitably means that periods in which one contributes and creates something very visibly alternate with periods in which it is not so visible. These are periods between two projects in which one thinks about the next project or conceptually depicts, prepares, in his head points or thinks about alternative possibilities or developments. In short, periods of invisible artistic work that is very important. That is actually why we want to give space to artists, people who are artistically engaged, with respect for their autonomy, to develop this artistic creativity and artistic work. This sometimes requires time and specific social security arrangements. What is very important, Mr Anseeeuw, is that the specific point you are raising, namely access to unemployment benefits, is actually only a second step, which an artist may be able to take when he may have to resort to unemployment after a first step has been taken. As an artist, we must get a work of art certificate. The great innovation in this proposal lies in the fact that we are creating an artwork committee that will act as a real and unique gatekeeper. This committee will ensure that artists will be in order for social security for a period of five years, without constantly having to fill in all kinds of papers and without having to walk from one institution to another. However, the artwork attestation is not a light procedure. You get access to full protection, but you don't get the certificate just like that. It is also a fine-meshed instrument, and that is an answer to Mrs Vanrobaey's question. The artwork attestation can take three forms. First of all, it's kind of a basic work of art test for someone who can prove that he's professionally artistic. There are not many demands for what he has already done. You must have earned at least 1,000 euros in professional artistic work over the last 2 years. So you have to prove that you're artistic. But if you can, for example, you will have the opportunity to work with the Statute 1bis. You will then be given employee protection, if you are productively engaged and paid by a client, even if that client does not exercise the authority over you what an employer is normally supposed to exercise. For someone who meets those basic conditions, we create the possibility of being productive and acquiring social protection on that basis. Secondly, there is a somewhat stronger variant, the artwork attestation plus. Provided that additional conditions are met, this will give access to the rules governing unemployment which are specific to people in the artistic sector. You have to prove that you have earned professional income in the past period. If it is your first application, you must have earned at least 5,418 euros in artistic work over the past two years, or at least 13,546 euros in the past five years. So one must not only prove professionally that one is artistically engaged, one must also prove that one has had a earning capacity. Then you get an artwork certificate. This is, as it were, a first step, but not the only one, which must be taken if we are to have access to the specific arrangements for the unemployment of artists. Madam President, it is true that these figures were not provided for in the technical group's proposal. That is true, but I believe that politics still has the right to fine-tune proposals and seek balance; I come to it immediately. Of course, all this will still be subject to consultation and discussion. We have been working with sectors and federations. We have organized, as you know, a very participatory trajectory in both formal and informal ways. I can confirm that. Mr Anseuw, it is very important that this is a kind of reciprocity. We do not just get access to this specific unemployment scheme; we must have that artworker attestation plus, we must have earned something as an artist. Mrs Vanrobaeys, we want to make it possible for people to start. The start is of course double difficult in the very competitive landscape of the arts today. For this reason an artist can start for a period of three years. In that case, the artist should not present so much evidence of what he has already done. The artist must prove five achievements or have earned at least 300 euros, artistically, over a period of three years, but one has to be able to present a diploma or equivalent experience in the arts and one must also present a business plan or provide a career guidance. The latter means that we ask the people at the start to think about their future and to be helped. The file to be submitted must therefore contain evidence of artistic activities, of artistic income, and one must seize the opportunity to be helped through career guidance or submit a business plan. Those are the conditions for starting. Those concerned receive the artworker attestation for a period of three years. As a starter, provided that additional conditions are met in unemployment, access to a specific unemployment scheme is available. Mr Anseuw, I would like to add a fundamental element. Half of the artwork committee consists of people from the artistic sector and half of those representing the administration, the social partners. We agree with that because we believe that insights still need to grow. In that artwork committee, a practice of debate on what can or cannot be called artistic work should grow. The arts sector itself must be involved in this. We have confidence in that too. This means that the arts sector also has a very important responsibility to make correct and well-considered decisions in that artwork committee, through the acceptance of applications for an artwork certificate in the three forms I mentioned. For example, the arts sector must ensure that people who receive the certificate do indeed make artistic contributions and are therefore entitled to full protection. [[To be honest, I have faith in that.]] As far as the specific unemployment scheme is concerned, I will not go into all the details. It is true that we give unemployment benefits to people who are professionally artistic and who have the compulsory work certificate "plus" if they meet a number of conditions, with conditions that are different from those in other sectors. This includes the cachet scheme, which means that what is earned at once with a certain performance is converted into an equivalent of days, because we also work with days for other workers. This is not always the case with artists, hence the special cachet arrangement. What we do not want is for someone who is artistically engaged and who has to rely on unemployment benefits at some point to answer quickly because one does not see what that person is doing. Artists do a lot of invisible work. We want, as it were, to avoid a mediation service questioning someone who is artistically engaged and who has the artwork certificate "plus" too quickly, wondering whether that person is doing something and recommending that he do something else or receive training. That is what is inherent in artistic work, especially that there are often periods of invisible, but important activities. The basic philosophy is that artists should have time for that. Mr Anseuw, in comparison with the existing regime, which we are adapting on a number of points because we believe that this is necessary. In this respect, we are still staying flexible in a responsible way, but we are getting stricter. We felt that the existing scheme made it too easy in some sense to continue to be entitled to that existing unemployment scheme, even if the person in question was no longer artistically productive. That wasn't good. Taking into account the reality of artistic work today, such as fragmented careers, short projects and precarious situations, and given the specificity of artistic work, I think that this two-stage approach, which requires the artwork attestation "plus," is the most appropriate. One must be able to prove that one is able to earn professional income as an artist. If you have that, the second stage is that, if you meet a number of conditions which are, at first sight, flexible conditions, you can use unemployment benefits, which also provide a number of suitable and good protection for artists. Mrs Vanrobaeys, that alone is not enough to help start-ups. The start-up scheme applies for three years, with provisional entry into the system. One doesn't have to prove much. Moreover, I would refer once again to the importance of a business plan or career guidance that must have been organised. We also make it possible for someone who starts as a self-employed person, for a longer period than the classical period for self-employed persons, to start easily as a 'primary starter', with additional reduced contributions. We do think that's necessary. Then, as a starter, one finds himself in the usual arrangement and after three years, if one can live up to it, one has to apply for the artwork certificate for five years. Colleagues, I think we have a good balance here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u12	Madam President, I understand that you were concerned that, with regard to the certificate of kunstwerkattest, there is still a need for proof, in order to benefit from the specific scheme of unemployment benefits, of a certain capacity to generate professional income. I think it's logical and necessary. It's part of the balance. I understand that this is subject to debate, but I believe it is absolutely necessary to find the right balance and balance. On the other hand, I say to Mr Anseew that he may be somewhat unaware of the very precarious situation of many artists today, the reality of today's artistic work, the reality of the field. Above all, I believe, Mr. Anseew, that we must give the individual artist confidence, give time, create spaces and give the sector confidence to help him manage this new commission and take responsibility. Of course, this brings me back to what I said at the beginning. The responsibility we want to give because we believe in it brings with it a challenge. The artistic sector will have to make sure that this happens seriously in the artwork committee. I have faith in that. That's essential. Perhaps the difference between you and me is that I think one can give confidence to artists who work autonomously, who ask for time, who must be given time to develop. We give them individual and collective trust and we believe that trust will not be ashamed. I think we need to find the right balance between the demands that are made on the professional earning ability of someone who asks for the artwork certificate "plus" and what is on the other side. I think that balance is necessary. But there has been a lot of consultation on this and there will still be a lot of consultation on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u13	Minister, I understand the need to be explicit, but again the debate has been lengthy. If you would like to present the results of the reform with your colleague Dermagne, I invite you to offer us an exchange of views. The committee will be very busy and we will be able to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u14	Madam President, it is true that the concept of oral questions does not allow us to go into all aspects in detail. We have not yet received any texts in the Chamber itself. Minister, I am learning from your reply what I already knew, in particular that the conditions for access to the artists' statute and benefits are indeed being relaxed. In a way, push the front door a little close, but not quite, and at the same time you open the back door. The final conclusion is that these conditions are being relaxed. In doing so, you do no service to those involved and to society. You referred to the artwork attest and the Artwork Committee that is being set up. You want to give artists the confidence to be judge and party to that arrangement. On that point, I fundamentally disagree with you. I do not think it is right that artists, as well as others, should be a judge and party to their own unemployment scheme, especially since they will have to contribute even less than before with the new scheme in order to be able to claim it. That is a particularly unhealthy situation. In addition, we probably have a second fundamental disagreement. That will be evident in the debates. I note that a lot of artists combine a lot of creativity with stable income. That's perfectly possible. We may fundamentally disagree on whether we should, by definition, subsidise those who fail to do so with social security which is already very poor and to which they should contribute less and less. That is worth at least a serious debate. In your opinion, all this should be possible, but I do not think it is so self-evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u15	Madam President, Minister, this is the first stage of reform, but it is still a leap forward, with a balance between rights and contributions. Moreover, cultural workers have the space to do what they are good at, namely amaze people, move them, fire them and, above all, bring them together, because they get certainty and during the creative artistic process should not continue to run from hot to hot with all sorts of papers in which they have to prove themselves. Mr Anseuw, we are indeed disagreeing on this. You think they should contribute, too. I am, of course, in favour of fair wages in the sector, but I can only say that the Flemish subsidies are being cut every time and that even those subsidies do not take into account the wages to be paid to the people who come there. In this way, they must be covered by social protection so that they can combine creativity with a stable income. That's just the point: artistic work goes up and down and doesn't go down in a fixed, stable way for everyone. We need to support the invisible, creative work between the peaks, taking into account the different waves in a career. Look at Van Gogh: he would be very rich now, but he has only peaked during the last four years of his career. This reform is more balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your very precise answers. You talked about artistic work and artists. I think it is important to highlight more clearly any activity necessary for artistic creation. We know that it is clearly part of what you are announcing in the reform. We all need to change our language. We hear and understand the idea of the commission. Our fear, by reading what is available on the WITA platform, is to have a turnaround. The N-VA just mentioned the idea that too many people would enter too easily. I think the discussions will be interesting in the coming weeks. We have the exact opposite fear that there are too many people coming out of this reform and that the difficulties are too great. The reform is very technical. There are a lot of changes. You mentioned the consultation and the fact that you were going to return to the sector. It is known that the sector is extremely varied in its activities. It is very important now to consider whether there would not be, among all the changes made, what one imagines as details, which would not be, and which would put certain workers in difficulty in a specific activity for very specific reasons. I think this is very important and you have not answered my question on consultation throughout the negotiations. Did there exist small contacts to talk about minima and maxima or to talk about conversion rules? Have there been any temperature readings? Of course, during a period of negotiations, we cannot send the evolution of the texts every hour, but I think it may be a little more than fine-tuning. Have we made sure we're not getting out and taking too much width compared to the starting note? That was a real concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u17	I may have been too short and unfair with regard to your questions, but I said that I confirmed the existence of these contacts, exactly as you describe it – informal and regular with the social partners, the federations and obviously the technical group. But next to this one, a lot of contacts have been made and we're going to keep them. It's obvious. I therefore confirm what you are asking for, but I obviously believe that, even though the technical group was fundamental in proposing an architecture – which is quite important and which I believe has been respected – the fact of adding elements to it is legitimate. In fact, all the members of the government and the parties represented in it have done so. The fact of adding elements is still legitimate in my view. The dialogue will continue. There's no fear there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u18	Minister, thank you. It was indeed an element that was very important to us. Consultation with the partners must be able to be carried out in a suitable manner, even at the time of negotiations with, as is well known, seven partners of the Vivaldi around the table, each bringing their priorities and objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u19	Mr Minister, perhaps you will not be one with me, which is, by the way, your right, but if you do not respond to my questions here in committee, as you did last week, I will simply ask them again. At the last meeting, you said that you were making progress on the response of employers with too many long-term sick people. This is important, because employers constantly demand that people work harder, faster and longer. In the first place, they have caused an enormous increase in the number of long-term sick. At the heart of this response is the determination of the correct excess of the number of long-term sick, with the x to compare with the own sector and the y to compare with the entire private sector. Have you consulted with the trade unions on this? Were they able to give input yet? That question refers to yesterday's critical article in De Standaard. How do you deal with sectors with many long-term sick but few large companies based on the NACE code? How many companies will be responsive each year? I'll go straight to my next question. A recent audit by the Court of Auditors shows that the system of increased risk does not work at all. I see a link here to the long-term sick. I also had a few questions about this last week. What lessons do you draw yourself? What will be the level of coverage of the system for the long-term sick? How many people will work in a place covered by the controls of the new system? Do you take into account that the companies will challenge the fines legally? How will you guarantee a high level of collection of fines? How do you ensure that fines lead to improvement plans with an impact on the workplace?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u20	Mr Colebunders, you repeat the questions, but I will of course repeat the answers. I will add a few things, and I certainly do not wish to refuse to do so. Of course, you want to know exactly how to determine what is an excess flow from workers to long-term illness. We've talked about that famous x and y before. A lot of material has already been collected on this and we are discussing it with trade unions and employers. However, no decisions have yet been taken. So I would really speak for my turn if I told you what x- and y-value we'd be proposing. I can assure you that there is a lot of discussion about this. By the way, I see a slight contradiction in your attitude. You said that it is scandalous that I do not follow the social partners in terms of possible sanctions for workers, as there is an opinion. Here, however, you say that we need to respond, but the social partners say that they do not want to. So you may be a little inconsistent. Anyway, that might not be the most important point. I believe that there is a need to be responsive. What I would like to do here is to highlight the difference between what we have in mind regarding the flow of long-term illness and its response and the system of increased risk in occupational accident insurance. The increased risk of accidents at work insurance took shape through social consultation in the Fedris Management Committee. Successive changes since 2008 always came at the initiative of Fedris' managers. Here we are working on a government initiative. I believe that we must continue with this government initiative. That also allows us to immediately indicate in which it differs from the story of the increased risk. For example, the weighted risk regime involves a flat-rate amount, although modulated according to the size of the company. Here we want it to be a percentage RSZ contribution to the whole of the company's quarterly wages. This means that the method of inning that we have in mind is also completely different from what we see in the system of increased risk. Since it concerns a social security contribution, the collection will be done by the RSZ and apply the normal rules on the recovery of social security contributions, with the normal applicable penalties in case of default such as those applicable to classical social contributions. You know that in the event of the increased risk, the insurers will collect it. They should, in principle, use their proceeds for the prevention initiatives of their prevention services. That doesn't work so well. We have therefore recently provided for a derogation by empowering Fedris to collect in sectors where there is a social prevention fund, namely the construction and timber sector. We will evaluate this because the collection system at the increased risk does not work at 100 %. Here we simply provide a social security contribution that is collected, with all the classical mechanisms of social security enforcement. The proceeds of this response contribution for long-term sick are intended for preventive health and safety measures at work or for measures aimed at the sustainable reintegration of people who are long-term ill. The relevant Joint Committees and Subcommittees shall conclude a collective agreement on this subject. This collective agreement identifies the institutions responsible for the use and use of the money. Those institutions should be set up in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 7 January 1958 on the Funds for Security of Living. The Managing Body of the Fund should draw up an annual report on the response contribution. This report should indicate the amount received by the RSZ, the measures taken under this Article and how the funds were used. The aim is to forward the report annually, together with the classic annual report of the Funds for Security of Life, to the chairman of the competent Joint Committee or Subcommittee, who should immediately forward it to the full Joint Committee or Subcommittee and then provide a copy of this report to the Registry of the General Directorate for Collective Labour Relations of the Federal Public Service for Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. So we have a very tight procedure here, in which I have more confidence than what I see happening with the increased risk, which therefore needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u21	Mr Minister, there is no discussion about the need for employers to respond to the PVDA. It may be over with the omnipotence of managers in the workplace. I've worked there myself for years. Everything must be done as quickly and as efficiently as possible and everything must be done even faster afterwards. That's the traditional way of working. However, it makes people massively ill. We will certainly return to this subject in this committee. I can understand, however, that there is not much you can say for the time being, but I encourage you to start talking to the trade unions behind the scenes. That will only improve the new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u22	In a recent audit, the Court of Auditors examined the federal accident prevention policy. His conclusions are extremely critical. The system of increased risk, for which Fedris is responsible, does not work at all. The system selects almost no large companies and currently responds less than 0.1% of companies. Moreover, for years Fedris has not taken into account temporary workers, port workers and posted workers. Four out of ten risk companies simply do not pay a preventive contribution. In the meantime, you indicated that you would launch a whole series of improvements, together with the Minister for Labour. What improvement action do you propose to Fedris for collecting the prevention contribution? What percentage should Fedris collect from you in 2023 and 2024? For the time being, Fedris claims a preventive contribution for up to 200 companies per year. The situation is a little more complicated, but it comes down to this. Is there, in your view, an objective basis for that limitation? Will you keep it or lift it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u23	I'm also looking critically at what's happening there. We had a good exchange of views on this thanks to the Court of Auditors last week. However, it is not all sorrow and torment either. Of the companies which had to pay the contribution in a given year for the increased risk and preventive measures, hardly the year after that there is another selection. Well, that's a good thing, isn't it? There is indeed a ceiling of 200 companies. In practice, we go a little above that thanks to the recuperation of any caption. In the period 2015 to 2020, up to 575 different companies launched a prevention plan in this context. With the adjustments we want to make, we could reach 900 companies for the period 2021-2026. That's not bad anyway. Apart from the companies that pay contributions for the increased risk, Fedris writes about 2,000 companies every year, because with their figures they come close to the criterion from when a contribution is to be paid for the increased risk. I have already said on a previous question that Fedris, once the amendment has entered into force, will collect the contribution for the timber and construction sector itself and pass it on to the prevention funds in that sector. This accounts for 38% or as much as four tenths of the contributions for increased risk, because the construction sector is very strongly represented in the companies with an increased risk. The scheme will also be evaluated. Moreover, as I said last week, we agreed, in very good cooperation with the inspection of Welfare at the Work of the FOD WASO, that there would be intensive inspection at at least 16 companies that did not pay. As a result, the inspection of the FOD WASO will also take this to heart. In other words, good agreements have been made with the FOD WASO, the inspection becomes more powerful, more focused and very intensive on a number of companies. We will have a large part of the contribution collected directly by Fedris. In practice, we think we are achieving a lot of companies. Perhaps the most important thing of all is that we will closely monitor the problem, with the Court of Auditors' report in our back pocket. That is a matter for many exciting future debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u24	Mr Minister, the system falls or stands with the collection of the prevention fee. I hope that quotas will be used. The federal government must take responsibility for ensuring that any fine is collected effectively and quickly. As far as the number of companies selected is concerned, if it depends on the PVDA, each company with an increased risk will pay a preventive contribution according to the current rules. Surely we cannot confine ourselves to imposing fines on only 200 of the 10,000 drivers who rip the motorway at a speed of 170 kilometres per hour and asking for an action plan from the rest, a piece of paper, in which they now declare themselves to keep to the maximum allowed speed and to improve their behaviour? It's about people's lives in the end! The accident prevention contribution has really failed, so much is clear. There is therefore a clear need for large-scale and more decisive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u25	Minister, have you experienced this situation? Your child is sick. It is not possible to take leave: you must work. There are no grandparents or relatives who can come to the rescue. You have no choice but to use the care of sick children. Good thing these guards exist. A nurse, since they are more women, then goes to your home to look after the child. These services are generally 100% reimbursed for mutual fund members, at a rate of 10 days per year per child. The majority of these services depend on mutual societies and some private companies. A few depend directly on the ONE. A mutual has just announced that she was closing her service in 2023. For example, five services for the care of sick children, help and home care, to which mutual care calls, will have to cease their activities. These service closures affect about 50 childcare workers, who would be engaged in partner structures or reoriented internally, if all goes well. From a cyclical point of view, the Federation of Home Care and Aid (FHA) claims that the health crisis has been a blow to the organization and sustainability of these services. Prior to the health crisis, out of 32,000 requests, 20,000 days were provided in 2018, i.e. 80 guards per working day. During the crisis, with telework, the rate of childminding fell to less than 30% between March 2020 and March 2021. From a structural point of view, and this is the biggest problem, let us note the lack of public funding. In the press, the ASD Federation describes a financially unsustainable situation. We know the need for these guards. Therefore, Minister, my questions are simple. Do we have to conclude that keeping your sick child will become a luxury product? Without funding, that is what is destined to happen. Why is there no public support or funding for these services? What are you planning to do to help parents who find themselves without a solution when a child falls ill?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u26	Like you, I believe that a child care service is useful and even very useful. It's an important subject. However, I will draw your attention to two points. The first is that the legislation does not require mutualities to set up such services. It is the general assembly of each mutuality, composed of its members and elected by them, which determines in accordance with the field of activity of mutuality laid down by law, the benefits that can be obtained within the framework of its supplementary insurance and the conditions for obtaining them. The benefits of supplementary insurance therefore vary from mutual to mutual. There's nothing I can do about it. It is possible to change mutuality, but the answer is too easy, however, it is the reality of this field. Secondly - for the rest, I have to keep quiet - I would like to remind you that the provision of out-of-school care for children is not a federal matter so that the answer to your question about public funding for sick child care is not within my jurisdiction. To do this, you need to question the federated entities on this important topic. Your group also stressed the need to reach agreement on short-term leave schemes which must be flexible, particularly in the case of sick children. But in terms of the leave system, the positive flexibility needed, etc., it concerns the federal government. And with regard to public funding, I regret, I believe that it is the federated entities that must play their part. I have no jurisdiction in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u27	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, early childhood support is, of course, a competence linked to the federated entities. I would like to join you on this question. Nevertheless, there is a difficulty there. We are in a somewhat sensitive space also linked to the obligation to be present in the workplace when you have a difficulty like that. As you said, this is not part of the mutuals' obligations to organize this kind of service. That's an advantage. This means that when one chooses one's mutual, one could, for that reason, choose a mutual which offers this possibility to which one considers it necessary to appeal. But we also know that, necessarily, where there are more opportunities, the costs are significantly different. The difficulty is tangible in this respect. There will also be a difficulty in terms of management, between working time and telework. Because, in fact, even though services are left to early childhood, there is a mechanism in place here. We know that it will relate to all the commitment related to telework, to all the perspectives. Now we hear that, when you're on telework, there's no need for your children to be cared for. They say we should be able to do both. So, the workers turn into superworkers and it's sometimes a little complicated. So I think it would be interesting to have a discussion with the federated entities. I think you share some interdepartmental committees with them. It may be of interest to raise these issues, which, as you have said, are very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-05-11-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic783x.u28	Colleagues, this concludes our work today. Mr Minister, thank you and let you join the Health Committee.
