ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u1	Minister, on 17 December last year a report by RTBF revealed that the notorious radiologist Farid Alsaïd is active as a radiologist in Molenbeek. He is notorious, among other things, for being convicted by the French and Belgian courts, for being the target of an international arrest warrant, for being banned from practicing medicine and for making dangerous diagnoses. Nevertheless, he gets a RIZIV number and can practice radiology in Belgium without problems. Have you heard of the case, which has been particularly fussed in France and is now up to date with the RTBF's reportage? Are you in contact with the Order of Doctors in Belgium regarding the file? How is it possible that the man gets a RIZIV number without any problems? Is his radiology practice under extra surveillance? Have controls already been carried out and what was the result?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u2	I was informed of a complaint concerning the radiologist concerned on 5 December 2021. I transferred it on 8 December 2021 to the competent Provincial Medical Commission, which dealt with the complaint on 14 December 2021 and in turn provided the Provincial Council of the Order of Doctors with further useful results. In fact, allegations of fraud and misdiagnosis fall within the jurisdiction of the Order of Doctors. You're asking me if I had any contact with the Order of Doctors. I transferred the file to the county council. How is it that the man gets a RIZIV number without any problems? The doctor concerned obtained his diploma on 26 September 1990 in Belgium at the ULB. He received his visa on 18 June 1991 and was recognized as a radiologist on 19 October 1995. This was clear before the facts in 2014 and 2015 in France, mentioned in the reportage on RTBF. The facts in France would have to do with fraud and fraud. In the condemnation that was mentioned in the press, it would be about money laundering. In addition, there is no immediate danger to public health or to physical or mental incapacity to pursue the profession. These are matters which fall within the competence of the Provincial Medical Commission. The RIZIV wasn't conned either. As far as the complaint in Belgium is concerned, this would be a misdiagnosis of protocoling an RX, but of course the radiologist is not the only doctor investigating a patient. It is not up to my services, but it is up to the court to judge it. You're asking if the radiologist is being watched. As I have already said, the dossier is being examined and dealt with by the competent authorities at different levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand from your answer that once one gets a RIZIV number here, which can no longer be taken away in any way, since he was recognized as a radiologist in 1995, i.e. before the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u5	No, but then you won't really answer my question. There's a whole laundry list of problems that you think are related to fraud, but the complaints here were still about misdiagnosing. It may be that this man is not only responsible, but there is a smell on the case. Then one would think that one would be a little more careful. I take note of your answer, that apparently there is no problem with that man, except that he has committed fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u6	Mrs Sneppe, I have said that the dossier was submitted to the Provincial Council of the Order of Doctors, which is competent in this matter and will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u7	So the case is still on the order?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u10	Mr Prévot apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u11	Minister, a survey commissioned by the King Baudouin Foundation revealed that one in two Belgians does not know what health data means and has never heard about the electronic file. However, digitalization in the medical sector got a boost due to the corona crisis. Vaccination certificate, results of medical examinations, test results, treatments are important to improve individual health and to make our health system more performant, but half of the Belgians do not yet know how to ask them or where to find them. Minister, are you aware of these poor figures? What do you think caused that? What will you do to make digitalisation in, among other things, care accessible to all people, to the care providers, but certainly also to patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u12	Mrs Sneppe, there has been a very rapid development of all kinds of eHealth applications over the past decade. I refer, among other things, to the eHealthBox. We know that some of the population has not yet been given access to these digital applications. The digital divide is an important focus. Therefore, as many services as possible, provided that the patient's informed consent is based on the electronic data exchange between care providers, health care institutions and health insurance funds, so that the patient does not have to take any action. This is, of course, the best way to avoid different treatment according to the degree of digitisation. The automatic electronic transmission of the certificate of assistance provided by general practitioners to the sickness fund, so that the patient is automatically reimbursed, is a good example of this, but it goes without saying that for services that the patient should be able to use, also paper alternatives are always offered. For example, vaccination invitations are also sent on paper or vaccination or recovery certificates can also be obtained by post after a call to a contact centre. It is often the case that digital services are more efficient and faster. Therefore, all digital services are designed in such a way that people who do not have digital infrastructure or skills can be assisted by a trusted person, such as a family member, or by support organisations such as sickness funds or OCMWs.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u13	Thank you, Minister. It is a good thing that you acknowledge the problem. That is the beginning of the solution, but I still have a few reservations. You say that, subject to the patient's consent, information will be forwarded to the various care providers. That is indeed efficient, but I am asking myself how a patient can give permission if he does not know what it is about or if, for example, he does not know what health data is. You are talking about 'a part of the population', but we are talking about a Belgian in two, i.e. 50% of the population. That is a considerable part of it. All right, it's all happened quickly, and your services will have to keep an eye on it all. After all, it is impossible for half of the Belgians to fall out of the boat because the digitalisation is now suddenly accelerating. Caution should be exercised there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u14	After some reflection, it seems to me to be a matter of respect that one should apologize in the absence. If someone is simply absent, his or her question becomes without object. That seems obvious to me. If anyone has let you know that he will be later, the question can still be asked. One delay is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u15	Minister, the first lockdown in 2020 has had a clear impact on people suffering from joint disease osteoarthritis. This is demonstrated by a study by the Arthrosis Foundation and AFLAR, a French association dedicated to patients with rheumatism. According to the study, almost 36% of the population were affected by the disease before the age of 40. During the first lockdown there was less room to move, people became isolated and the pandemic weighed heavily on mental health. All these factors have ultimately affected the general health of people with osteoarthritis. Although osteoarthritis is often considered to be old-age disease, the study showed 36% of respondents already experiencing complaints for the age of 40 years. Are you aware of the investigation? Are you aware that the condition got worse because of the lockdown, especially the first one? Will there be an action plan to map this and other consequences of the lockdown and find solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u16	Mrs Sneppe, the study you are quoting, was carried out by the Arthrosis Foundation, a Belgian association that supports scientific research into osteoarthritis and also defends patient interests, and AFLAR, the Association Française de Lutte Anti-Rhomatismale. Approximately 3,500 Belgian and French patients participated in the survey between September 2019 and January 2021. A few months after the start of the investigation, the covid pandemic was declared. During the first lockdown period, a deterioration in the moral and general health status of patients was observed, but also an increase in the intensity of pain. Researchers explain that due to a likely reduction in physical activity due to weight gain and changes in diet, isolation, including patients, and finally more occupational and family-related stress. Arthrosis is a common degenerative disorder in which the cartilage gradually disappears. Abrasion of the cartilage reduces the shock absorbing capacity of the joint and can eventually sand the bones over each other, causing pain. There are several factors that contribute to the development of osteoarthritis, such as the hereditary predisposition, the sex of osteoarthritis is more common in women: age, overweight, heavy joint stress or trauma. In the treatment of osteoarthritis, first of all movement is important and when overweight, weight loss can reduce pain problems. The pain symptoms are also treated with pain medication, paracetamol and anti-inflammatory drugs. In the event of severe joint damage, joint prosthesis may be indicated. In Belgium, osteoarthritis occurs in 18.6% of the population aged 15 and over. From the age of 65, 32.4% of men and 47.9% of women suffer from osteoarthritis. This is evident from the 2018 health survey of Sciensano. The percentage of people suffering from osteoarthritis is increasing. In 2008, 15.9% of people were suffering from osteoarthritis, which was 16.7% in 2013. The incidence of osteoarthritis therefore increases with age. In the 36 to 44 age group, the number of people with osteoarthritis is about 10% of the population, in the 45 to 54 age group it is about 20%. For the 75+s, that percentage increases to 44%. As pain symptoms due to osteoarthritis generally worsen with less movement, it can be assumed that people with osteoarthritis who had less movement during a lockdown period would indeed experience more pain. Delaying care such as kinesitherapy can also be a factor in worsening pain symptoms due to osteoarthritis. I do not have data on research in Belgium on the effects of the lockdown especially for osteoarthritis patients, except for the study you mention, but it is interesting. There is currently no specific initiative to map osteoarthritis due to the lockdown. It will be important for all chronic diseases to focus on catching up with delayed healthcare knowledge periods of increased viral circulation and the burden on hospitals, as well as raising awareness in general for a healthy lifestyle with healthy diet and sufficient movement.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u17	Minister, it was a long answer, but with little substance. You've said a lot about things I haven't asked for. My third question was whether there will be an action plan to map this and other consequences of the lockdown and to find solutions. I didn't really get an answer to that question, except that you want to sensitize. However, more will be needed. You also referred to deferred care and so on. There too, there will have to be a tooth to make up for that and to help these people, but indeed other people with a chronic disease, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u18	Minister, in April 2021, a proposal for reform of intensive care was made from a Belgian hospital, but at that time there was little support. However, the initiators predicted exactly what would happen in the autumn and how the hospitals could best prepare themselves for it. Their proposal was also largely based on the opinion of the KCE on the management of hospitals during the first corona wave. Among other things, it was suggested that the existing MICA programme should be further developed and optimised. With the MICA or Monitoring Intensive Care Activities program, services can provide intensive care data on operations, types of patients and severity of the conditions in real time and benchmark against other hospitals in the country. It was also recommended to increase investment in training and to establish a list of spare staff. Why was that advice not followed then, Minister? Will you work on the expansion and optimisation of the MICA programme? Could you give me a timeline for that? What is the state of the hospital reform? Will you give priority to intensive care in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u19	Mrs Sneppe, I think your question is based on an article that appeared in De Morgen on 4 January. I can confirm that at the end of April 2021, in particular on 29 April, the Hospital Transport & Surge Capacity Committee discussed the evaluation of the first wave and the preparation of any subsequent waves. During this meeting of the Committee, Sciensano, who is also a member, gave a presentation including the elements to which you refer, namely the definition of intensive care and the MICA project. Indeed, the Committee suggested, as improvement slopes, a possible reform of the hospital landscape and a better definition of what intensive care is right. The Committee also indicated that this is a dossier to be included by the Federal Hospital Services Council, together with experts from the relevant professional organisations, and not actually by the HTSC itself. My administration has taken immediate steps to examine, together with the hospitals that are already active in the MICA project today, what data registered within MICA can contribute to the management of the crisis in policy terms. In June 2021, agreements were concluded with the participating hospitals, with a financial fee for the provision of the data. Without going into technical detail, I can tell you that two elements were asked of hospitals, namely indicators on the overall picture of the beginning of the pandemic to date and then a structured, regular report on these indicators. Meanwhile, a data stream has been set up. However, the retroactive dataset has not yet been delivered. The existing data stream still does not correspond to what was agreed. However, my administration remains hopeful and continues to invest in this slope. However, where Mica seemed to be a quick win in spring 2021, this does not seem to be the solution. Fortunately, the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, together with the FPS Public Health and Sciensano, also invested further in the adjustment of its own data flows, the Surge data stream and the data stream Clinical Survey. Fortunately, through these roads, for example, we can get a picture of the ages of new hospitalized people or the vaccination status. The organisation and funding of intensive care are the subject of a study planned by the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care. So we're definitely gonna keep looking at this. It remains an important theme, but MICA has not produced what we had really hoped for for for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u20	The fact that we often do not have the data necessary to draw certain conclusions is a pain that has been mentioned throughout the corona crisis and actually before. You say that the MICA programme has not led to what it should have led to. Why is that? After all, that programme seemed promising. Especially when the field of work itself refers to it, one might think that it would have more to do with it. Why isn't MICA enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u21	There is a delay in delivering part of the data, which is the most important thing I regret to note. However, this does not mean that the project will yield nothing. I think this will happen, but there is just a serious delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u22	So it's up to the hospitals themselves if this doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u23	Mr Minister, by the end of 2021, the Order of Doctors would have failed you, because patient data in hospitals is not always processed in accordance with European and GDPR guidelines. Indeed, the 3M systems, which are also used for benchmarking, would not be sufficiently secure and would allow identifiable personal data to be processed in the United States and Russia. The basic contract was then concluded between the then Minister for Public Health and 3M. I'd like to get an update on the situation. Exactly what potential security issues are there? Did anyone check to see if any patient records have fallen into the wrong hands? If so, what is the outcome? What steps were taken to remedy the problems? Have the problems been solved in the meantime? If so, in what way? If not, what is to be done? What are the conditions for such systems to comply with? Were the systems that process patient data all mapped? How are these systems controlled? Were there any other problems identified? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u24	Mrs Gijbels, I have indeed received a letter from the Order of Doctors about the systems of 3M and more specifically about the tool for benchmarking of 3M. I have therefore responded extensively to the Order of Doctors. You ask what problems I see. The use of a benchmarking tool on the one hand and of 3M as a supplier on the other is a decision of an individual hospital as a private company. In principle, benchmarking can also be offered by firms other than 3M or by networks to which hospitals belong. The proper and responsible use of medical personal data in the hospital is entirely the responsibility of the hospital itself and therefore a data protection officer of the hospital must ensure that the use of sensitive personal data is carried out in accordance with the applicable European and Belgian privacy laws. For example, the hospital should monitor how and to what extent the medical personal data of its patients in Belgium are used for scientific research and other benchmarking initiatives. I understand your concern about the re-use of Belgian health data for all kinds of purposes. I share that concern, but in Belgium we have the Data Protection Authority, which has to act sanctioningly in the event of a breach of applicable legislation. In this respect, 3M also requested an opinion from the GBA, which was satisfied with the explanation and the additional information it had received. You ask what conditions such systems must comply with. I would like to refer to the advice of Zorgnet Icuro, who ordered it from Ernst & Young. In this respect, a number of concrete recommendations have been made on the service contract, the processor agreement, data minimising and the proportionality of data use, with no blocking issues detected. 3M has responded to these advices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. In the meantime, the question has become more topical than when I submitted it. Indeed, there would be evidence that identifiable personal data would be processed in Russia. I understand it's the doctor's responsibility. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the government to protect citizens and thus patients. They themselves have no idea what happens to their data. Doctors also do not always have a complete view of where the data are going. You also indicate that the Data Protection Authority has a role to play in this regard. I also asked you a written question about cybersecurity and hospitals in 2021. I had understood then that a certain sum would be reserved in the relay plan for, among other things, the cybersecurity of hospitals. However, I understand that there is still a long way to go in this area and that this is not yet before tomorrow. You also mentioned the new NIS directive, which is being drafted. The protection of the services offered by hospitals over the Internet would be verified through a project at the RIZIV. However, I have the impression that this is not yet about to happen and is not yet where it should be. We certainly need to pay attention to this now. Hospitals can also be a strategic target, including for countries like Russia. I would therefore urge you to use this and to use the resources as quickly as possible. Hospitals have so far had little support for their digital services. Also in your plans for hospital reform, you want to work more cost-effectively, although the hospitals are currently often using the profits they can achieve for their digital services and their digitisation. I therefore urge the hospitals to support them more than is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u26	In addition, you are right to make a point. In the coming years, we will make EUR 126 million available for digitisation in the Belgian healthcare sector. This is mainly federal money, as well as European money that we federally mobilise within the framework of the European Restart Programme. Part of that money goes straight to the hospitals. There's also a part that's outside the hospitals. It is, however, a very large investment that, I believe, should contribute, among other things, to more cyber security. That, as you say, is indeed a great concern. The resources are now available. It will be a few years before we can complete a number of projects. In any case, I think we are making a very large investment in this area at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u27	I'll follow it up, thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u28	Mr Minister, this is actually a follow-up question on a resolution which we worked on in this committee at the beginning of the legislative term and which I asked you about last year about in writing. You replied to that at the time. It is now a year later, and I understand that hospitals and your services have had other priorities in the past year, but at the same time I also think that we should not lose sight of important issues such as investing in donor milk and even better supporting breast-feeding mothers. That is why I would like to have an update on the implementation of your plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u29	Mrs Creemers, this summer my staff invited the Belgian Society of Neonatology to share their knowledge and expertise on this issue. It is necessary to obtain a more accurate picture of the tasks of these future banks, as well as a forecast of their activity and an assessment of their needs in this respect. Indications for prescribing, the annual quantity of milk processed and delivered, the origin of the milk........................................................................................................................................................... These are important questions to be answered. At present, the only quantified evaluation of the processed quantities available to us is from the data from RIZIV's reimbursement of breast milk collected by hospitals for vulnerable premature babies. These invoicing data may be incomplete as they relate only to three hospitals in Wallonia, four in the Brussels-Capital Region and none in Flanders. That's a little disappointing. Within the Belgian Society of Neonatology a working group has met and a subsequent consultation with my employees is scheduled at the end of this month. The donation of breast milk should ideally be integrated into a coordinated national policy that supports the long-term benefits of breast-feeding in the general public, both before, during and after neonatal hospitalisation, for both full-time and premature newborns. Such a plan can only be achieved in cooperation with the communities and regions. At federal level, the FPS Public Health developed two pilot projects in hospitals in order to promote, through specific training courses, good practices in nursing guidance and support for the development of premature babies, the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative and Developmental Care projects. So far, a preliminary state of affairs. We'll see these people at the end of March. So this is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the update. I look forward to the results of the working group at the end of March. The Belgian Association of Neonatology is primarily the logical interlocutor because they have experience, but during the period that we have worked on the resolution, we have also talked to breastfeeding experts who often see outside hospitals, on the ground, that the start-up of breast-feeding is going wrong. They then jumped to see the breast milk banks being set up and to work even more together with the hospitals, but also to stimulate this more in and outside the hospitals. After all, they see the opposite path. In neanatology, there's a lot of demand. There is a lot of supply for the breastfeeding experts in the field. It would be good if the Belgian Association for Lactation Experts were involved, because they have very good ideas and they are eager to see those breast milk banks set up. Over the last two years, we have learned a great deal about the importance of our health. It starts with good nutrition from the little ones. I hope we agree that the best food is still breast milk. I therefore hope that an inter-federal plan or inter-federal cooperation will be implemented quickly, so that everyone can do so in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u31	Thank you for your reply. I would like to point out to those who are working on it that you stress the need to involve the breastfeeding experts as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u32	They also gave us advice at that stage, so they were involved. They will be very happy to help.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about the accessibility of treatments for people with cystic fibrosis and, again recently, about the ongoing reimbursement procedure for Kaftrio for people over 12 years of age. It is a question of better living conditions and even a prolongation of life. You told me that the procedure was under way and that the elements of the negotiations could not be made public. I also asked you about the European Medicines Agency's favourable opinion on the use of this medicine for children between six and eleven years of age. You told me that the Kaftrio pharmaceutical company had not yet applied to CRM for this use. A large number of countries have made it possible for the drug to be accessible for more than 12 years, and it is essential to be able to move forward quickly now. It should be possible to move forward without delay in the steps to be taken for young children under the age of 12. To this end, BeNeLuxA-type agreements can facilitate access to innovative medicines. This international cooperation in a decision-making process is beneficial. Let us remember the Belgian accessibility procedure for the Orkambi. Minister, have any initiatives been taken to scan CFTR modulatory drugs over the past two years by the BeNeLuxA structure? Are there any steps taken or collective evaluation reports on this treatment for children aged six to eleven, taking into account the EMA's opinion in November 2021? Specifically, are informal contacts and discussions on elements of reimbursement of this treatment for these children initiated with a view to joint negotiations with our European partners? Finally, at this stage and in order not to waste time, is it possible to engage in dialogue with the pharmaceutical company in order to encourage the filing of an application aimed inter alia at Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u34	Mrs Taquin, both at national level and within the international partnership of BeNeLuxA, the evolution within CFTR modulators has been and is being closely monitored. In addition, in the framework of European cooperation on the reimbursement of orphan medicinal products and innovative medicines, Belgium plays an important role in the International Horizon Scanning Initiative (IHSI), an international cooperation involving eight countries aimed at mapping and sharing information on important future innovative medicines. IHSI aims to create a very broad database, which will gather all publicly available information on medicines. This will result in high impact reports, which will analyze treatments that have a potentially significant impact. You then ask whether any steps have been taken or whether collective evaluation reports have been published on this treatment for children between the ages of six and eleven. On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) within the European Medicines Agency (EMA) delivered a favourable opinion on this paediatric indication. From then on, in accordance with the rules in force in Belgium, the pharmaceutical company Vertex can already apply to the Commission de réimbursement des Medicinal Products (CRM) for the reimbursement of Kaftrio for children between the ages of six and eleven. I have been informed that the CRM secretariat has just received this request in mid-February. The date on which a decision is to be taken in this case is scheduled for August 2022, except in the case of further suspension of the time limit by the firm itself. In addition, where negotiations under Articles 111, 112 and 113 are necessary, an additional 90 days should also be taken into account. As always, I will do everything I can to make a decision as soon as possible. Finally, compassionate use programmes and emergency medical programmes allow pharmaceutical companies marketing medicines in Belgium to make their innovative treatment available to patients who need it before market access procedures are finalized. Some innovative medicines may also be subject to intervention even before registration, when they treat a serious or fatal patient and there is no therapeutic alternative. This procedure was called unmet medical need, so a medical need was not satisfied. It allows faster access to innovative medicines. The Royal Decree of 1 February 2018 also provides for the possibility for pharmaceutical companies to submit applications for reimbursement to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products at the time of obtaining the positive opinion of the Committee for Medical Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMA to which I referred a few minutes ago. The use of this possibility saves 75 days in the proceedings. All administrative possibilities have been developed to speed up access to innovative treatments in Belgium and to offer solutions in an early access approach for patients. It is therefore hoped that companies will try to make the most of these opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u35	Minister, I wanted to thank you for the answer that is sufficiently specific today, and for your determination to move forward on this issue. We see that there is an evolution. The application was submitted in mid-February. A deadline will fall in August 2022. I will come back regularly to you to keep me informed of the progress of this matter. I thank you for the attention also paid to children between the ages of six and eleven and for the importance you attach to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u36	Minister, mental health is a subject that is of great interest to both of us and which we follow closely. I still have a few questions. Efforts have already been made. For example, you announced that you would create extra crisis beds for young people with EUR 35 million. They are not enough today. Too often we hear distress calls from concerned parents who cannot obtain adequate and rapid assistance for their children. The threshold for aid is still too high. The psychiatrists also confirm this. During my previous questions, I have often looked at the state of development and improvement of mental health care. I have already referred you to a problem relating to psychiatric home care. Psychiatric home nurses can only use two nomenclature numbers to guide their patients. However, the function they may have in the pre- and post-care of psychiatric patients is very large. This could make a huge difference not only for the comfort of patients, but also for the flow of crisis beds and other beds for long-term intake, which could be so free for other patients. So I would have liked to have heard from you what concrete steps you will take to better organise psychiatric home care in a more accessible way. Do you provide additional support for psychiatric home care or a concrete project that can improve access to and organisation of psychiatric home care? Are you willing to investigate this form of assistance and their additional functions, to support and really embed them in the first line, with the guidance of the psychiatrists from the second line? Are you willing to bet on the psychiatric home nurses? I would also have liked to know from you what the state of play of the crisis relief of young people is today? How can you also take further concrete steps in this area? Covid may be on hold today via code yellow, the mental impact of the pandemic is certainly on our young population and will unfortunately still have a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u37	Mrs Depoorter, psychiatric home care and all forms of outreach work are central to the vision of the reforms of mental health care that we are undertaking. These reforms are based on the principle of stepped-up and balanced care, in which our care system must consist of different forms of care, ranging from outpatient to residential care, in order to provide care and care continuity in the most appropriate way. So I'm absolutely willing to bet on psychiatric home care, through psychiatric nurses, among other things. In fact, we have already invested in this. In February 2021, we took measures to speed up the response of children, young people and young adults with acute mental complaints and problems or young people in a crisis situation with the mobile crisis teams of the mental health care networks for children and young people. In this way, the capacity for mobile crisis response was significantly increased in the short term. I'm talking about almost 51 full-time units of additional staff. These teams are mobile and therefore provide care and support in the home situation and in any other context. These teams are scattered all over the territory. They allow quick access to the citizen's living environment. As a result of the corona crisis, mobile crisis teams for children and young people and mobile teams for older people were also strengthened. We also strengthen children's psychiatric services with an additional function, so that they can continue to work in the home environment both before and after a recording. In order to facilitate the transition from residential care to the home context, in April 2021 I decided to intensify the residential care offer for the care of children and young people with serious and complex mental problems by increasing the staffing framework of child and youth psychiatric services. This intensification makes it possible for the staff to also be responsible for the transfer of care from the residential setting to the home or home replacement environment. The staff will then be employed in a so-called bridge function, which will do both care guidance, intake, and care transmission, after admission, to optimise the care continuity for these young people and their families and to reduce the time spent in the K-services. A total of 212 full-time units of staff were financed, with an annual budget of almost EUR 16 million. These forms of psychiatric home care are part of the mental health networks set up throughout the country. The networks consist of all mental health care facilities that mobile crisis teams and mobile teams can use for long-term care. The new convention on first-line psychological care complements the range of actors involved in the provision of care to the population by providing low-threshold and rapid assistance to vulnerable groups with mild to moderate problems, in conjunction with the first line. This is an additional offer aimed at children and young people, but also at adults and the elderly. This is not the end of what we are doing. With an additional investment of 35 million, the networks for children and young people will be able to choose, in addition to providing for, for example, additional emergency beds, to focus even more on care in the home situation, depending on the needs of the area of activity. It is intended that each area of action within the allocated budget should carry out a thorough analysis of available supply and priority needs by June 2022 at the latest. Mrs Depoorter, you referred in particular to possibilities through the nomenclature. The policy we develop on the basis of the mental health networks creates a strong population-oriented supply in each region. With this we offer the best answer to the question of home care. Psychiatric nurses can also be active in this. The story is not yet ready for the first line, which is still being worked on. Moreover, not all efforts have yet been implemented. The 35 million investment to which I referred has yet to be implemented, but preparations are being made for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, in which you effectively referred to the networks and to the additional staff employed. That is indeed a slope that you can walk, but that slope will not suffice. Very important are the self-employed home nurses or the nurses who work in an organisation and guide the patient at home. As far as nomenclature is concerned, I can only conclude that the current nomenclature with the two existing numbers is inadequate and underfunded. A nurse who goes to the patient's home, supervises the patient and prepares medication, for example in the context of an addiction problem, must be reimbursed. That is not the case today. I cannot remember the exact figure, but today the nurses receive EUR 2.6 or 5 per house visit. In the context of intensive care, a second consultation is only charged to the patient from the fifth visit per day. It is therefore not feasible for home nurses to be used in that very important area of psychiatric home care. However, this is essential for the supervision of patients after an intake. I speak now from experience. The medication must be taken correctly and the patient must be supervised. The patient's mental guidance is crucial at that time and can certainly make a difference in psychiatric patients who need to be reintegrated into society. It is not the first time and it will probably not be the last time, but I would like to call again for the psychiatric home nurses to be recognised and for the necessary funding and nomenclature.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u39	Mr President, Minister, now that this crisis has been managed and the pages are slowly turning, we can finally look at other problems which, in comparison, seem to be less priority and more secondary. As you know, there are still many uncertainties about the potential effects of nanomaterials. Indeed, we do not fully know what the health and environmental risks of these products are. These are 10,000 times thinner than a hair. They can cross the lining of the intestine, the walls of the vessels, the blood-brain barrier. Yet they are widely used as food additives in sweets, cosmetic agents as well as in all kinds of medicines and paints. The most famous of these is titanium oxide used as a bleaching agent. In France, the use of nanomaterials has normally been declared in an official register (R-Nano) since 2013. In other words, producers, importers and distributors of substances containing nanomaterials must, each year, declare the identity and physico-chemical characteristics of these substances. However, it appears that these data are sometimes missing or incorrect. Minister, what about our country? Is there an official register in which companies must declare their use of nanomaterials? If so, what data are companies required to provide? Are controls organised to ensure that companies comply with these obligations? If such a register does not exist, is it being studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u40	Mr President, Mr Vicar, given their extremely small size and their own physico-chemical character, nanomaterials may have specific toxicological or ecotoxicological properties which are still little known. Therefore, it was necessary to establish a system to ensure the traceability of nanomaterials so as to identify the potential risks in order to be able, where appropriate, to react quickly and effectively, given the increasing number of products containing nanomaterials placed on the Belgian market. A Royal Decree on the placing on the market of nanoparticle manufactured substances was therefore adopted on 27 May 2014. This decision led in 2015 to the creation of an official Belgian register of manufactured nanomaterials and placed on the market in Belgium, i.e. in quantities greater than 100g per year. This register is fed by companies that place on the market, manufacture or import products containing such substances, either alone or in the form of a mixture. It also provides an overview of the quantities and types of nanomaterials placed on the market and their physico-chemical properties and aims at their traceability throughout the value chain by identifying professional users. Registration of nanoparticle substances and mixtures containing at least one nanoparticle substance has been mandatory since 1 January 2016 and 1 January 2017 respectively. Registration shall be made prior to the placing on the Belgian market of the substance or mixture on the Belgian nanoregistry, available on the website of the Federal Public Service Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. An annual update of the data is requested from registrants, so that they can determine with certainty the final quantity of nanomaterials placed on the market, as well as the professional users of their products. The data necessary to register a substance or mixture are set out in Annexes 1 and 2 to the Royal Decree mentioned above. These include the identification of the registrant of the substance(s) in the nanoparticle state, the quantity of substance placed on the market during the period considered, users and the identification of professional users. In terms of organized supervision, article 21 of the Decree gives an account of the measures taken to investigate, detect and prosecute offences in accordance with articles 15 to 18 of the Act of 21 December 1998. In addition, an analysis of the quality of the data reported by registrants on the nanoregistry was carried out by Sciensano for the records for the years 2017 and 2018. Finally, every April, after the update period, the federal government prepares an annual report containing the number of records made, active accounts, updated records, as well as the types of filers and users. The various annual reports and the results of the Sciensano study are available on the nanoregistry website. A specific chapter of this Royal Decree concerns the prior notification to the Belgian market of complex articles and articles containing nanomaterials: Chapter 3 "Notifications of complex articles and articles in which one or more manufactured substances in the nanoparticle state have been incorporated" – Articles 11 to 17. Its implementation was postponed to a later date determined by the King following the decision of the Council of Ministers after an evaluation of the articles. At present, we are studying the desirability of the entry into force of Chapter 3. It should be noted that Belgium is not the only country with specific legislation on nanomaterials. As you mentioned, a register was created in France – the R-Nano – for both substances and mixtures as well as for articles containing nanometric chemical compounds. In Sweden, a product register exists for chemical substances, with an obligation to notify any nanomaterial added to the product intentionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm glad to know there's a register. I looked for it, but I couldn't find it. I interviewed AFSCA, who sent me back to FPS Public Health. I will take the references in your answer to see how these controls are organized. I will eventually come back to you if I have any questions about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u42	Mr De Caluwé stated that he was prevented because of an important topicality in his municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u43	Minister, on 7 April 2019 it was decided that a Cannabis Agency would be set up and that this agency would make cannabis available to pharmacies and hospitals, for patients who were prescribed medicinal cannabis by a doctor, so that they could use it. The roll-out of that leaves a bit to be desired. I'd like to hear from you what's the latest on that cannabis agency. What is the scheduled start-up date? When would it be effective? How does the FAGG's supervision of the cannabis agency go? What conclusions do you draw at the end of the planned consultation with the FAGG at the end of 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u44	Minister, I was co-initiator of this proposal, which was finally adopted by the government on 7 April 2019 establishing a Cannabis Agency, as is the case in Germany. The Cannabis Agency must allow scientific research, check who the growers are, and ensure that the monopoly is maintained by the government. This allows the development of cannabis-based medicines, for which many patients are asking parties. Now ALS patients often go to a Dutch pharmacy to collect their cannabis oil and take it illegally across the border. To prevent this, it would be a good thing that we allow cannabis for medicinal purposes, more extensive than the medicine Sativex, which is available today. To this end, an agency should be set up to cover the land on which cannabis plants can be grown. It must grant a licence to producers. The entire cannabis harvest must be managed by the government. As I said, this will maintain the monopoly on the import and export of cannabis. I have already asked many parliamentary questions about this. I understand, however, that the covid period left little room for departments to take on such matters. That is why I am putting my question again today. Hopefully, the epidemic will lie down again and there will be time and space to work on this. Mr Minister, consultations took place in October 2021. What's the result of that? What is the deadline for the implementation of that legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I must confirm your fears. It is annoying to say, but the covid crisis has caused us to lag behind in a number of other projects. The covid crisis has had an impact on my policy cell, but also on the relevant Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. There's been a delay in planning. Indeed, after the summer, consultations were held to see what steps should be taken first. A second consultation was foreseen at the end of 2021, but was postponed to spring this year and is therefore still to take place. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of these discussions, nor do I want to anticipate further planning. The problem is indeed relevant, as Mrs Depoorter has also stressed. I'm hoping to get back on track now.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u46	Minister, that was a very brief answer on the medical use of a particular substance. I can understand that covid has been a game breaker in a lot of cases. However, I note that the decision to provide medicinal cannabis for patients with uncontrollable spasms and for whom there is some evidence to administer cannabis is not being implemented. At the same time, I hear a plea in certain political circles to legalise cannabis and even to offer cocaine through pharmacists. That's the reverse world, isn't it? I expected more from someone who has a high priority for health care. I think the patient should have priority over the recreational user, so the execution of the decision on medicinal cannabis is important work. You said this was postponed to spring. I am curious to see what will come of it and whether patients will effectively obtain what they need. I hope that you will give this important work priority over the ongoing debate on hallucinogenic and other means, which I believe should be conducted at a very different level. You're a health minister. I think the patient should always be at the center of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u47	Minister, I understand that the covid pandemic has thrown a lot of soot into the food, even in October 2021, with a peak. That doesn't change the fact that there are people asking parties. Groups of patients are now starting to take products on their own initiative to control certain symptoms, even in children with epilepsy. That way, they worsen certain symptoms. These patients are getting a little discouraged. 2019 was hopeful, finally the taboo around the medical use was broken for large patient groups. I hope that this will be taken up quickly, because I think that what is happening today is irresponsible. Certain groups of patients experiment with doses themselves. This has to be done under surveillance. I am in favour of medical use, much less recreational use. Let us get to work on this first. There are people who can be helped with this in the very short term. There are also scientific research offices ready to experiment with this, to apply it to those various groups. Let us do this quickly so that we can make progress this year. Hopefully a plan will be developed in the spring. Then we will ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Patrick Prévot's 55024508C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55024536C, 55024537C, 55024538C, 55024539C and 55024540C of Mr De Caluwe are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u49	Mr. Minister, on 26 January, Sciensano published an analysis of the excess mortality rate in 2021. Statbel also recently published figures of mortality in 2021. Differences in figures between the two publications are due to methodological differences such as the inclusion of deaths abroad and a difference in reference years. Striking in the publication of Statbel is the evolution of mortality rates per province from 2017 to 2021. For example, there appear to be considerable differences between provinces, with for example + 0.6 % for Flemish Brabant and + 1.3 % for Liège to + 6.3 % for Luxembourg and + 6.9 % for Limburg. This higher excess mortality rate in Luxembourg and Limburg is also reflected in the figures for the respective provincial capitals, namely Aarlen and Hasselt. Is it being examined how these differences between provinces and provincial capitals can be explained? In what way? What are the possible explanations for the differences? To what extent is there excess mortality from non-covid-related diseases and what are they? Is there also a difference between the provinces and can you explain this further?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u50	The differences you are referring to are difficult to explain precisely as long as the cause of death data are not available. Pending the availability of these data, the HELICON project will study provincial differences in excess mortality. The province of residence is a control variable in analysing social differences in over-death rates in the various epidemic waves. The results can give more insight into the influence of sociodemographic and socio-economic compositions per province and how they translate into these relative differences in over-death rates. Province capitals will not be studied. The first results of these analyses are expected in June 2022. Currently, the Research Unit Knowledge Based Systems of Ghent University is conducting a study at the level of the arrondissement. They map geographical differences in covidin incidence and excess mortality using mobility data and Sciensano data. You're asking what the possible explanations are. That requires thorough scientific research. In general, provinces or provincial capitals with fewer deaths will have a higher percentage increase in absolute figures. The province of Limburg has an increase of 6.3, with an average of 2,716 deaths in 2017 and 2019 and 2,886 deaths in 2021. That's a difference of 170 deaths. This difference could be partly explained by the comparable number of COOVID-19 deaths, as there were 195 COOVID-19 deaths in the province of Limburg in 2021. COVID-19, floods and socio-economic and demographic factors are all factors that can influence the differences in mortality between provinces. As far as your last question is concerned, I can say the following. In Belgium, the cause specific death registration through death certificates is a two-year process. The statistics on causes of death shall be compiled by means of statistical death certificates completed by a certified doctor at each death in Belgium and subsequently completed by the municipal administration of the place of death. The forms shall be forwarded to the federated entities which review, encode and enter the information in order to compile their own statistics. The data are transmitted to Statbel about 12 to 17 months after the end of the reference period, which it then merges, checks and processes to compile statistics at federal level. These statistics are published approximately one to two months after the last data reception. At present, therefore, the causes of death for 2021 that follow the regular path are not yet known. Statbel therefore only has preliminary figures on the number of deaths in 2021 according to all causes and not of the underlying cause, which means that the question cannot be answered today. Unfortunately, therefore, the system does not allow an almost real-time monitoring of cause-specific mortality in any way, which is of course essential during a pandemic. As you know, Sciensano then set up an ad hoc registration for the specific monitoring of COVID-19 mortality. With the data now available, if we subtract COOVID-19 mortality from all causes combined for the year 2021, we see a very low excess mortality rate for non-COVID-19 deaths only around the peak of the fourth wave and among the 65- to 84-year-olds. We do not have more accurate information on the over-death rate per province in the Be-MOMO model, with the lowest territorial level being the Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u51	So, Minister, if I understand correctly, it takes two years before the causes of death have been processed and can be looked at? I have already asked Mrs De Block a question about this, I think. I think it's been a long time. When I first asked the question, there was no covid. I understand that the federated entities play a role in this and that this must be communicated from the levels. I still wonder if that can't be faster in times when there has to be a fast way of data input and data processing. I also believe that the causes of death in the Netherlands are almost immediately available. Especially in times of a pandemic, it is important to have a correct overview immediately so that we can also distinguish between excess mortality by covid and other causes. In this way, action can also be taken in good time if certain trends become apparent. In June of this year I can apparently expect more information. So I will certainly ask further questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u52	About 8 out of 10 women now have the NIP test, which has been almost fully reimbursed since July 2017. Since that year, the number of children born with Down syndrome has also fallen by a third. However, there are problems with the NIP test, as noted in the American study reported in The New York Times, firstly because it gives false positive results in certain conditions, for example 9 out of 10 in Prader-Willi syndrome. This can of course have serious consequences, because 6% of mothers then turn to abortion, without doing a more reliable test, such as a flake test or amniotic puncture. Secondly, the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics also warned against excessive routine use of the NIP test, especially in the detection of diseases with a fairly mild disease. Thirdly, Zara vzw, who supervises pregnant women and teenage pregnancies, fails to provide information to couples to interpret the results of the NIP test and lacks general guidelines to advise couples. Mr. Secretary, do you confirm the reported problems? Does your administration follow that? What are the relevant directives? For the detection of what problems is the NIP test allowed today? Shouldn't that be defined more strictly? Do you also have figures on the number of couples who, after a positive result, have an abortion? Please confirm the problems of providing information to interpret the result from a NIP test. Do you also recognise that the guidance after a result is not sufficient? Will you therefore issue general guidelines, including for care providers, to advise couples on the NIP test?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u53	The screening is done in pregnant women based on a blood sample, in which in addition to their own DNA there is also genetic material from the baby. The test may detect severe genetic abnormalities and may be reduced from 12 weeks of pregnancy. The introduction of the test can avoid a large number of invasive studies, such as amniotic puncture, which can lead to a miscarriage. The NIP test has been paid in Belgium for the most part since 1 July 2017 for all pregnant women who so wish. Refund is provided for the prenatal detection of trisomy 21 by a molecular biological method on a mother's blood sample from the 12th week of pregnancy. The condition of refund of the test mentioned only the detection of trisomy 21. The test takes place in the eight genetic centres in Belgium by means of a genome-wide screening test involving all chromosomes that not only cause trisomy 21, i.e. actually Down's syndrome, but also other genetic abnormalities, both in the mother and the child. The sensitivity and specificity of the test for the detection of trisomy 21, 18 and 13 is 99%. This means that in 1% of cases a false positive result is obtained. Because the full genome is examined during the test, other abnormalities can also be detected. For very rare abnormalities, clinical validation of the results is not always possible. There are too few data available to make a ruling on the reliability of the test for those diseases. For less rare abnormalities, clinical validation could be possible in the future, depending on the prevalence of the disease in the population. As a given technique is used longer in practice and more data are available, more abnormalities will also be clinically validated. The reliability of the test for other conditions is therefore variable and currently not sufficiently documented. For example, the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics to which you refer mentions positive predictive values for Turner syndrome of 26%, for triple X syndrome of 50% and for Klinefelter syndrome of 86%. A recent study by the UZ Leuven in collaboration with all genetic centres indicates that in the two years following the introduction of the NIP test, i.e. the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2019, a total of 188,130 tests are registered by the RIZIV. 80% of pregnant women chose to have a NIP test carried out. Trisomy 21, 13 or 18 was detected in approximately 1 in 200 pregnancies. Furthermore, the study also reports a halving of the number of invasive test procedures since the introduction of NIPT. This study indicates a decrease of one third in the number of newborns with down syndrome. In 2014, the percentage of neonati with down syndrome was 0.06 % and in 2018 0.04 %. In the case of a positive NIPT, follow-up studies, i.e. an amniocentesis or a flakes test, can be carried out for further genetic research if the couple so wishes. Depending on the results, the couple will be able to make a choice for a possible termination of pregnancy when it comes to an important fetus health problem. It should also be stressed that genome-wide screening in the NIPT cannot detect or exclude all genetic abnormalities. In other words, a negative test does not provide 100% certainty that there are no genetic abnormalities in the foetus. Since the introduction of NIPT, the importance of sufficient information to pregnant women on the effects of the test has been underlined. I also refer to Opinion No. 8912 of the Supreme Health Council. An informed consent to the testing and genetic counselling of the pregnant woman in the event of a different result is therefore very important here. In Belgium, genetic counselling is fully reimbursed for everyone. When a fetal or maternal genetic defect is detected, the midwife is informed and the pregnant woman is invited for genetic counseling. In addition to the advice of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics of 2016 and 2020 and the 2014 High Health Council, the College of Human Inheritance in collaboration with the BSHG, the Belgian Society for Human Genetics, has issued guidelines on good practice at NIPT and for incidental findings, detected by NIPT. In summary, the following recommendations are made. I quote: "When reporting incidental findings, the focus should be on the risk of potentially serious harm to the health of the mother or the foetus, if this finding is not reported. Therefore, incidental findings should only be reported if, first, they are considered technically valid and, second, there is validated evidence for the associated phenotype and, third, they are considered clinically relevant and usable'. Due to the number of abortions following positive results of the NIPT, follow-up studies are planned to confirm the results, as well as genetic counselling, if the result is different. The number of abortions in Belgium is collected by the National Evaluation Committee on Pregnancy, which reports to Parliament every two years. Article 350, 4°, of the Criminal Code provides that the termination of pregnancy after the 12-week period may be subject to the conditions laid down in Article 350, 1°, b), 2° and 3° of the same Code, where the completion of pregnancy presents a serious risk to the health of the woman or where it is established that the child to be born will suffer from an extremely serious illness recognised as incurable at the time of diagnosis. The latest report, dating from February 2021 and covering the years 2018-2019, specifies the number of pregnancy breaks after the 12-week deadline: 69 pregnancy breaks in 2018, 77 in 2019. In addition to congenital abnormalities or malformations, serious or incurable diseases to which the child might suffer are also mentioned as a number of chromosomal disorders, such as trisomy 13, 18, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which I will certainly read again. I had heard that for certain conditions there is no clinical validation and the reliability varies. It is an important element that genetic counseling is indeed taking place, which is being repaid. What I did not get an answer to was the question of how the couples in question, in addition to genetic counseling, are accompanied in the interpretation of all the data. Is that what happens at the genetic counseling? After all, I catch complaints from the field, including from the Fara association. Apparently, this is not working adequately, or couples are not sufficiently informed. I refer your answer back to them to see how we can possibly ask the question more specifically, what exactly are the elements involved in the content of genetic counselling. I will certainly look at your answer again in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u55	Mr. Minister, the question may seem anecdotal to you, but it is in a much broader context of the ongoing discussions within your office and in this committee on the determination of possible quotas for doctors. Recently, it was reported in the local press in Luxembourg that sixteen communes were facing a shortage of doctors. In almost one in three municipalities in the province of Luxembourg, each practitioner has on average more than 1,111 inhabitants. This figure is disturbing, and even alarming. It is an unappealable observation that the generalists have been forming for a long time. Physicians who retire are not replaced due to the lack of new practitioners. The patient and workload of each person are constantly increasing. The first line is saturated. It is time to act and work with local actors to find a solution. Mr Minister, of course I have no doubt that you are aware of this situation in the province of Luxembourg. In this case, what steps are you planning to take to address this growing shortage? You will probably answer to me that this problem falls in part within the competence of the Regions, which must take measures to attract doctors to rural areas. Nevertheless, a planning system can be modelled by the federal government. In this context, how do you justify limiting the allocation of INAMI numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u56	Mr Vajda, the Medical Supply Planning Commission follows very closely the monitoring and planning of the labour force and gives me regular opinions on the situation. The description of the physician's activity is well known and documented in various works that you will find on the website of this Commission. As you may know, since 2014 and the sixth reform of the state, the federal government has been competent for the general quota of doctors who have access to an internship place to obtain a particular professional qualification. General medicine is one of the thirty-three. The subquotas reserved for them have since been the responsibility of the Communities. For this reason, I invite you to ask the Planning Commission of the French Community, which has been established since the autumn of 2021. It is true that the situation you describe exists and is even worrying in many communes. Efforts have been made. The French Community had issued a decree with the aim of increasing the working force in general medicine. The federal government transferred to the federated entities, during the reform, the Impulseo Fund consisting of aid for the installation of doctors. These are important instruments. The federal government also plays its role. Optimal planning of the medical supply must ensure quality care provided by qualified professionals whose number must be appropriate to meet the needs of the population. The adequacy of the number of doctors to the needs of the population has a positive effect on the quality of training, but also on the medical profession and that of care. It is clear, therefore, that planning for the medical supply must take into account both demographic changes, population health needs, changes in the profession, the activities of doctors and the organization of care itself. An inter-federal planning body will be established to enable all stakeholders to respond in synergy to the needs of the Belgian population. A design of this body was approved by the federal government. The federal concept note will soon be sent to the federated entities for consultation. This inter-federal consultative body should ensure good synergy and exchange of data and information between levels of competence. It is a good planning that we need, I believe, to take into account all the elements that you have mentioned. Efforts must be made to distribute general practitioners and then to comply with planning agreements. There is also a need for adequate control mechanisms, which is currently on the table for discussions and negotiations between federal entities and the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note some positive points, such as the ongoing monitoring, the general attention you seem to be paying to the problem and the setting up of the federal planning body, which is a tool more than useful to arrive at a comprehensive solution for what really remains a problem. I take note, and I can also understand, of your attention to the respect of inter-federal agreements for this planning, which is not dependent solely on the federal government, but on agreements that must be concluded and respected by all entities. The problem is not simple. It is not the same in the city as in rural areas. It is not the same for general practitioners as for specialists. I will simply ask you to keep in mind that first-line medicine, community medicine are really the guarantees of good health for our population.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Creyelman's 55024611C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u59	Minister, the Puff is a kind of electronic mini-cigarette disposable with colourful and attractive packaging that diffuses sweet aromas such as candy, strawberry, pineapple or banana. For months, this Puff has seduced young people, especially on the TikTok app, a place that is conducive to influence, where several personalities have shown up smoking this Puff or even directly incited their community, made up mostly of young teenagers, to smoke it. Tobacco scientists on TikTok have tried to alert users about their dangers, but nothing does. They are right to worry because this Puff can contain up to 2% nicotine. It is therefore an obvious gateway to cigarettes, especially when it is known that some begin to vapote this Puff at the age of 12 or 13. They can buy it on the black market, via their older relatives or in the night shops, all the more so since it is sold between 8 and 12 euros, which is a relatively accessible price. According to some experts, this situation is dramatic. I quote Amine Benyamina, Head of Department of Psychiatry and Addictology at the Paul Brousse Hospital in Villejuif, France: "While vaping is a formidable risk reduction device, there it is an initiation to tobacco consumption". According to Loïc Josserand, president of the Alliance against French Tobacco: "The main danger is the addiction to nicotine". Minister, are you aware of the situation of increased consumption of Puff among young people, particularly because of its advertising on TikTok? In the positive, what is being done to stem this phenomenon? Have any contacts been made with the social network or influencers? Are you planning, with your colleague from the interior, to strengthen controls on the sales of Puff to minors in night shops? Does the Health FPS have data on Puff consumption in Belgium, particularly among those under the age of 18? Do you intend to work with the federated entities to increase young people's awareness of the dangers of such devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u60	Mrs Rohonyi, as you know, the General Drug Policy Cell (CGPD) has expressed the ambition to implement an inter-federal tobacco policy, giving priority to a tobacco-free generation. In practice, and given the scale of the problem and the number of policy areas involved, this policy will be implemented in phases. As a first step, objectives, outlines and priority areas will be identified and verified. This should lead to a background note to be submitted to the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, a thematic meeting on drugs. On the basis of this note, work on the development of an inter-federal tobacco policy will continue. An ad hoc working group of the CGPD has been set up to work on these objectives. It has already met three times and should be able to finalize the base note by March. As the work is under way, it is not possible for me to predict the results. However, I have already spoken about my federal jurisdiction. The following avenues exist and are discussed within this group. Firstly, to strengthen the provisions on the packaging and control of ingredients by applying the measures already in force for cigarettes and rolling tobacco to all tobacco products. Second, reduce the number of outlets. Third, make tobacco packages invisible in outlets. Fourthly, implement all the provisions of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control of the World Health Organization, ratified by Belgium, and in particular Article 5.3, which aims to protect tobacco control policies from the commercial interests of the tobacco industry. Finally, the last track concerns the improvement of control. The latest health survey conducted by Sciensano in 2018 tells us that more than 90% of young consumers of electronic cigarettes are opting for a rechargeable model. Disposable electronic cigarettes are not included in this category. More recent specific figures are not available for Belgium. Given the limited numbers, it is impossible to draw definitive conclusions regarding the use of disposable electronic cigarettes. The increasing use of disposable devices may be a more recent phenomenon, and further studies are needed. Although there is a lack of figures on the number of young users of this type of electronic cigarette, my services are seeing an increase in the number of notifications of disposable electronic cigarettes. This increase may indicate an underlying growing popularity of this type of electronic cigarette. After internal consultation, my departments decided to organize several actions in parallel. The market will be studied to quantify the extent of the problem and identify the most popular sales channels. Controls on the prohibition of advertising, the prohibition of sale to minors and distance selling will be strengthened. An evaluation of the presence of these products on social networks and online sales platforms with distance selling will be planned during the first half of this year. My services will contact social media and platforms to collaborate in order to cancel the distribution of advertisements and advertisements for sale and to be able to identify Belgian resellers. My services will contact the FPS Finance services to work together to strengthen controls on the various sales platforms and to stop the remote selling and illegal trade of e-cigarettes. I assume that your question on strengthening controls in night shops, in consultation with my colleague from the Interior, refers to closer cooperation with the police. Let me begin by saying that disposable e-cigarettes containing nicotine are regulated. They must be notified before they are placed on the market and this is monitored by the FPS Public Health Inspection Service. Disposable nicotine-free e-cigarettes currently have to meet far fewer requirements. For example, they must not carry a health warning and they must not be notified. I would like to ban both types of disposable e-cigarettes. Given the smaller size of the battery, these devices are much less effective in terms of nicotine release. Disposable electronic cigarettes are therefore inadequate as a means of withdrawal. This is stressed by the Higher Council of Health in its Opinion No. 9265 on electronic cigarettes. For the Supreme Council of Health, cheap disposable electronic cigarettes are a strategic way to keep the threshold of access to vaping as low as possible, and to convince young people, among other things, to use electronic cigarettes. It is crucial to protect young people from the dangers of smoking or nicotine addiction. It is clear that electronic cigarettes that have no role to play in smoking cessation do not have a place in the trade. E-cigarettes have been integrated into the future inter-federal tobacco policy; the federated entities are, of course, represented there. Discussions are already under way in this working group. An electronic cigarette component is also discussed. I do not want to prejudge the results of these discussions, but I have full confidence in the expertise within them to define the most efficient strategies to protect youth from smoking and nicotine use. Given the small number of users of disposable e-cigarettes, a specific awareness-raising campaign may miss its objective and rather attract interest from non-users. In accordance with the opinion of the Higher Council of Health, however, my services are working at the same time to finalize an amendment to the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 regulating electronic cigarettes. The original proposal submitted to the European Commission included an explicit ban on disposable e-cigarettes. The European Commission has noted that the prohibition of a certain category of products is only possible for reasons related to the specific situation of our country. A separate procedure is provided for this purpose, with an additional waiting period of six months. Therefore, in order to avoid a delay for the other amendments to the proposal, the prohibition was removed from this amendment. Nevertheless, I maintain that this prohibition must be imposed in the long term. My services are preparing a new dossier to convince the Commission of the need to ban disposable electronic cigarettes. To create this dossier, my services will work closely with the services of my colleague Mrs Khattabi, Minister of the Environment, also concerned with this issue of disposable e-cigarettes. Furthermore, this proposal reinforces labelling requirements, which will have to be less attractive. The proposed amendment also applies to nicotine-free e-liquids the current requirements for nicotine-containing electronic cigarettes. This could lead to better monitoring and regulation of these products. We hope to be able to publish this amended royal decree later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have a whole series of positive elements. First, the fact that you intend to include this puff as part of our goal of "a tobacco-free generation" and to treat this device as an addiction among others. What is fundamental especially in adolescents is that earlier, they consume this product, the more likely there is to be a risk of addiction. This is why our anti-smoking plan must include electronic cigarettes and, ultimately, their misuse, i.e., their use is beginning not to stop smoking but ultimately with the perverse effect of starting to smoke. I mean all the measures that you intend to put in place, even if you cannot detail them: reducing points of sale, operating a neutral packaging, as is the case for cigarettes, except that, for these measures to be effective, it is essential to objectify the phenomenon upstream to better respond to it, especially if we still do not have recent figures. These figures are not yet available, which is normal, since this trend is recent; why we need to work on awareness, risk reduction and controls in night shops. In this regard, you explain to us that you intend to objectiveize the phenomenon. I wonder who. Are we entitled to expect a new opinion from the Higher Health Council, since the puff has its own peculiarities, which are not those of electronic cigarettes. You also say that, given the small number of disposable e-cigarette smokers, you do not intend to make a specific communication because it could have the perverse effect of advertising it. Still not aware of this number, I think it is more prudent to wait for the results of this objectivation. When, finally, are we entitled to wait for the concrete measures you have announced? When will the working group complete its work? The same applies to the amendment of the royal decree that you mentioned. Should we wait for the amendment of the European Regulation on this matter? I think we can't wait too long, because the promotion of this puff is ravaging social networks. We must therefore act quickly and avoid being overtaken by events as a result of a regulation that is too slow to control the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u62	Questions Nos. 55024633C and 55024636C by Mr. Patrick Prévot were deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u63	Mr President, are we not hearing from Mr. Ben Achour? If he had wished to apply, I would have agreed to do so, too. Minister, I am very pleased to ask you again about this. I had already asked you a written question about the decarboxylase deficiency of aromatic amino acids. This very rare disease has affected one or two cases in Belgium, which are reminiscent of the history of little Pia, since we are talking about a disease that is likely to be alleviated by means of gene treatment. The latter is marketed in both France and Belgium. A Verviet family turned to a Parisian team, but treatment would cost 1 million euros, while it would cost 70,000 euros in Poland. French doctors considered that the young boy concerned had to undergo this treatment because he met all the conditions. However, the case is blocked in Belgium. If treatment can be given free of charge, parents need permission from us to allow their child to be hospitalized in France in order to undergo all pre-operative examinations as well as treatment administration. Since I introduced the question a few weeks ago, the situation has changed further. The hospitalisation was cancelled in January by the Parisian institution in which the parents hoped that their child would be cared for. He has been hospitalized several times since then. His life is in real danger. It is therefore urgent for him to be able to benefit from this treatment. Minister, are you aware of this case? What do you know about the temporary or definitive placing on the market of the medicine, including in Belgium? Does Belgium agree to intervene in the costs of hospitalisation and operation? More generally, what do you think about the gene therapy in question? I'm talking about the case of this little Vervietois, but there are others, like that of the little Pia. Are there any ways to make gene therapy affordable for Belgian patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Merckx, as you said, this is an extremely rare disease whose overall incidence is unknown. According to Orphanet, the European portal for rare diseases and orphan medicinal products, the prevalence of the disease is less than 1/1 000 000. I would first like to refer to the Special Solidarity Fund which is, within INAMI, an additional safety net of the basic coverage of compulsory health care insurance. The patient may apply to the Special Solidarity Fund under specific conditions stipulated in the legislation concerned, for example when the patient suffers from a rare disease. Each application is evaluated by the College of Medical Directors on the basis of all the elements in the file. For each application, the College must of course check whether the file meets the legal criteria. The scientific value and effectiveness of the service must be recognised and motivated by the medical authorities in order for the Solidarity Fund to intervene. The gene therapy in France, to which you refer, is still at an experimental stage and is part of a clinical trial approved by the High Authority of Health in France. In such a case of a clinical trial abroad, the College of Medical Directors, which is important for the decisions of the Special Solidarity Fund, has the possibility to grant prior authorisation under certain conditions in order to ensure the cost of standard of care in case of participation in a clinical trial abroad. In any case, standard of care refers to benefits that meet clinical recommendations or scientific consensus and are reimbursed by health insurance. Such prior authorization cannot therefore be granted for the treatment of the benefits described as such in the study protocol and which are the responsibility of the promoter of the clinical study because the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Co-ordinated Allowances on 14 July 1994 does not permit this. As for your specific question for this patient, which aims to determine whether Belgium will give its consent to the costs of hospitalisation of little Lucien, it is impossible to give a conclusive answer without having the concrete data on the patient, without identification, medical data, or administrative information, for example affiliation with an insurance body. My services should be able to study this case with all the medical and scientific details. What I can clearly say today is that INAMI, the Special Solidarity Fund, has confirmed to me that I have not received or processed an application for financial assistance for Upstaza medicine so far. The same applies to an application for participation in a clinical trial abroad for this drug. Consequently, the College has neither taken a favourable nor an unfavourable decision in such a case. The patient or his or her family should seek mutual assistance as quickly as possible so that they can be assisted in making such a request. With regard to your question as to whether and when a structural reimbursement of Upstaza medicinal product can be considered in Belgium, the Upstaza medicinal product of PTC Therapeutics is still the subject of an application for a marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency, specifically through the Committee for Innovative Therapies. For the moment, therefore, it is not yet possible to decide whether or not to grant a marketing licence or on its timing. This step must be completed first before the Upstaza firm can apply for reimbursement to the CRM, the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. In the meantime, there is the possibility of compassionate use. Unlike France, there is not yet a compassionate use program in Belgium, but PTC Therapeutics could submit such a program for approval to AFMPS. Regarding your question about the high price of gene therapies and how to make them more affordable in Belgium, to date, the prices of medicines are unilaterally fixed by the companies responsible for them. In assessing firms' applications for reimbursement for promising innovative therapies, whether gene therapies or not, the therapeutic value of these promising new therapies is being determined. The result of this assessment is often that a significant reduction in the cost is required on the part of the applicant in comparison with the price originally requested. In our Benelux 1 collaboration, we work together with the various authorities concerned to establish the willingness to pay for promising and innovative therapies, preferably even before the first price fixing with the firm in question. As a result, it is no longer the seller, i.e. the industry, who has a voice in determining what is a realistic price, but also the buyer, i.e. the authorities. If its expectations are communicated proactively more clearly, this can lead to more realistic and constructive discussions and negotiations. I also find it very important to make the general population increasingly aware of the difference between what is a realistic price that could be paid for promising therapy and what the firm is asking for as a price for the same therapy. It is important to realize that responsibility for drug budget control is a shared responsibility. I, of course, have an important role as Minister of Social Affairs and I am advised for this by the CRM and the INAMI Contracts Working Group. The Secretary of State for the Budget also has an important role; it is obvious, but also and certainly the industry plays an essential role, just like the medical world and society in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u65	Mr Minister, I think the first thing to say is that we are again facing a firm that still has a little experimental treatment but not so experimental as that and which requires a million euros when the same treatment is available at 70 000 euros in Poland! We are faced with firms that take advantage of their monopoly position to demand exorbitant prices and that in the compassionate use that could be made of it do not play a frank game. Where the boy had had a vague promise to be able to receive treatment in a compassionate way in France at the beginning of this year, things don't seem as clear in the meantime. There's a life in danger, minister! If the child does not receive this treatment, his or her days are counted. I think you should put yourself on the side of the patients to make it clear to this firm that you don't play that way with a child's life. That's the first thing! Second, once you suffer from such a rare disease, whose treatment is only given outside our country – in Belgium, you will not find a neurosurgeon who can administer this treatment; it currently exists only in Poland and France – then you will find yourself in an implausible administrative imbroglio. Since July, the family has written several press articles. In particular, I have had the family doctor online, who doesn't know who to talk to or how to do it. You're talking about the Special Solidarity Fund, where there would have been no requests. Now, this family already benefits from the Special Solidarity Fund because there are very special treatments for which this fund intervenes. I will now tell the doctor to make that request, but I do not understand that there is no proactive method. These people have turned to mutuals and many other bodies and, finally, to a history of papers also in Belgium, the case is not advanced, whereas I believe that this is really a typical example of a family that is a victim not only of the way pharmaceutical companies benefit from their monopoly position with a life in danger, but also of the imbroglio and administrative difficulties that these people are facing. In any case, I will not fail to share your answer with both the family and the doctor who is currently trying to stir up heaven and earth so that these people can benefit from this treatment. I also hope to be able to count on your support for this, Minister, because I believe that as Minister of Health, you also have a responsibility in this regard. It is up to you to type on the table and not only to shake the administrations to see what can be done, but also to send a signal to the firm which, today, does not clearly specify whether or not the baby can benefit from the treatment. The situation is comparable to that of the little Pia. There was a lotteries that allowed some children to benefit from this gene treatment. Today, fortunately, a refund is planned. I will not hesitate to return to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u66	Questions Nos. 55024700C, 55024701C, 55024702C and 55024703C by Mr.Rigot and No. 55024982C by Mr. From Caluwe are postponed. Ms. Matz's question No. 55024759C is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u67	Minister, the cancer barometer was published at the beginning of February. It indicated that there would be some 20 million cases by 2030, or more. In the corona crisis, I have repeatedly questioned you about your plans for delayed diagnosis and delayed care. This is part of this. This report was produced by an investigation between October 2020 and February 2021. For Belgium, more than 70,000 new cases would be added. An additional 13 000 cases are expected by 2030. I would have liked to know from you how far we are with a new national cancer plan, a health plan to deal with this. This cry for help has been addressed to you more often by the oncologists, but so far I have seen few concrete steps. What importance do you attach to that cancer barometer that was published? How concerned are you about the findings contained therein? What is the state of play today regarding a national cancer plan, its treatment? I am talking about the therapies where we are still in Article 111 very often and where, for example, a combination of different chemostats is very difficult when it comes to contractual products that are under Article 111. As far as early diagnosis is concerned. How will you cope with all the late diagnoses, later due to the covid crisis? What are the other plans you intend to carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I will repeat this question in part, but ask them anyway. On February 4th was World Cancer Day. As a result, the Foundation against Cancer drew attention to its Belgian cancer barometer, together with its priorities and recommendations in the fight against cancer. In 2022, according to the Foundation, we will count over 70,000 new cancer diagnoses, and that number will increase year after year. By 2030, the Foundation estimates that there will be more than 80,000 cancer diagnoses in Belgium every year. The 175-page report of the Cancer Barometer concludes with a number of general conclusions, findings and recommendations. Settings in green indicate where Belgium is doing well, because that too can and must be said. The orange indicates where further efforts are needed. Finally, in red, the problem situations are identified. What recommendations of the general conclusion have you already made? Where are we on timing and implementation? What recommendations of the general conclusion would you like to follow this period of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u69	The report you are referring to has been drawn up on the initiative of the Foundation against Cancer in collaboration with the Cancer Register, the Cancer Centre of Sciensano and the College of Oncology. In the first phase, a literature study was conducted from July to September 2020, identifying five specific themes. Those themes were then discussed in five working groups with stakeholders and experts from October 2020 to February 2021. The working groups dealt with the following topics: health promotion and primary prevention, screening, diagnosis and treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care. In addition, patients were also questioned. Based on the information from the working groups and the patient survey, the Cancer Barometer was developed. The report describes the state of play in the fight against cancer in Belgium and identifies gaps and needs. The need analysis is for me a basis on which relevant policies can be determined, now and in the coming years. I knew that the report was coming and was very looking forward to it, as it is a very thorough and methodological study. My services are now studying the report and the recommendations in detail to identify concrete actions. I have also ordered that the barometer be kept up-to-date in a structural way in the order of the Cancer Centre and that the barometer be updated and evaluated every two years. For example, it can really become an instrument for long-term cancer policy in Belgium. At a first quick reading of the report, I see that some of the measures already included in my policy are in line with the recommendations of the report. For example, I take a first step towards centralising care with a concentration of complex surgery in pancreatic and esophageal cancer. I will extend this approach to other tumors that require complex treatment or are rare, such as head or neck tumours or ovarian tumours. Equal, sustainable and rapid access to oncological care and innovative medicines is also a target in my policy, as is patient participation. The identification of concrete actions for future cancer policy, including the Cancer Barometer, will give particular attention to these issues. The report rightly states that 40% of cancers can be avoided so that primary prevention is one of the most important points of action in the fight against cancer. Measures include tobacco control, promotion of physical activity, healthy eating and restrictions on alcohol consumption. As you know, this is a shared competence with the federated entities and the consultations on this subject are being conducted within the framework of the Interministerial Conference. The policy on the consumption of psychoactive substances, including tobacco, will be coordinated inter-federally within the framework of the General Drug Policy Unit (CGPD) of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. In a recent response to lung cancer among women, I mentioned how it will work specifically on a long-term national strategy to reduce smoking prevalence. In the field of cancer research, a federal contribution is made through initiatives of the Sciensano Cancer Centre, the KCE and the Cancer Registry. As regards investments in innovative research projects and the quality of oncological care, it is important to mention two European projects launched by the European Commission which can contribute to improving cancer care in Belgium. This is the Europe's Beating Cancer Plan and the Mission on Cancer. The Cancer Centre is setting up a number of working groups that will identify pilot and research projects that can lead to policy initiatives focusing on patient benefits. These working groups began in early February. They will use the needs barometer to identify needs in Belgium and develop relevant policy initiatives. At the last plenary meeting of the mirror group on 7 March 2022, the Cancer Foundation presented its report on the barometer. I am confident that with this method, the possibilities and funds offered by these European initiatives will be used optimally in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u70	Minister, your answer was not very concrete. You indicate that you knew the report was coming, but hardly any steps have been taken. I agree with your point on the centralisation of care. In certain centres of expertise, however, we must take account of the fact that it cannot be just university centres and that care for the patient should be guaranteed either in the outlying centres or in the outlying centres. You said that the innovative medicines are in your policy paper, but I simply don't notice any of them. The WAIT indicator is very clear, our country is not doing well in terms of innovative cancer therapies. Our country is not ambitious enough. I refer again to genome therapy and to the diagnoses that need to be linked to specific chemotherapeutics and to combination chemotherapeutics. You have not yet taken any steps to this end, which are really necessary if we are to go along with this innovative approach, and if we are to ensure that our patients can receive the most innovative treatment, which must be the ambition of this government. As far as patient organisations are concerned, steps have indeed been taken, but I have not heard you say anything about the diagnostic. I have not heard what steps you will take to ensure that the diagnoses that have not been made because of the delayed care in the covid crisis can now be made as quickly as possible. We need to be able to start treating people at a stage where we are still talking about healing and curative therapies. This is something that we absolutely must focus on, not on treating a cancer discovered too late, for which we must use very different forms of treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u71	I remember, Minister, that the report, which is actually a partnership, is appreciated and that continuity is ensured. You mentioned every two years. That is a very good thing. It should also be used effectively. Mr Depoorter mentioned a number of points of interest. I have also listened carefully to the aspect of primary prevention. This is very important, as the report has shown. I hope that the report will be used by the Länder and that discussions will certainly take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is certain that this barometer provides a basis for concrete and targeted measures. I am pleased that working groups have been set up. I wonder about a number of things about these working groups. How are they composed? With what consultation: actors in the field, associations, professional organisations, tobacco scientists, oncologists? You did not answer the question as to how consultations were organized for the development of a new National Cancer Plan. What is the timing of the work? I am concerned about the consequences of late diagnosis of these cancers because it is known that early diagnosis determines the real chances of recovery. We must be able to go further than what the barometer proposes, in particular to work on incentives, on advertising, on social networks, all the devices that undermine our efforts to prevent and raise awareness. There are a lot of good initiatives to promote healthy eating or sport, but when there are at the same time advertisements and social networks that spread another message, it compromises our efforts. I think we need to be extremely careful if our efforts are to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u73	Mr Minister, I have a question about the coverage of hospitalisation insurance that employers can take out for their employees. Employers want the coverage of hospitalisation insurance also to be possible for reimbursement after hospitalisation due to cardiovascular diseases. For this purpose, reference is made to a tax law, in particular Article 38 WIB 92. The employer's contribution to such insurance, as well as the benefits themselves, is not taxable on the employee in the event of illness, in so far as it is a serious condition recognized as such by you, the Minister for Health. To date, the list of serious diseases has been drawn up, but it has no value as it was not published in a royal decree. There are a number of examples of the diseases included in this list, such as tuberculosis, leukaemia, HIV and cholera. However, this list has no value. As a result, there is a vacuum which puts workers at risk of having to pay taxes in the event of a tax check, in circumstances where, of course, they sometimes have other concerns as a result of illness and hospitalization. That can't be the intention at all. Are you considering defining the serious issues such as serious conditions, as referred to in this legislation and Article 38 WIB 92? Why has the list of serious diseases not yet been put into a ministerial decision? What obstacles are there? What diseases will you include in this list? Do they have a direct relationship with the list of examples of diseases? On what advice does this take place? When could this list and the corresponding ministerial decision be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u74	Mrs Depoorter, that question has also been asked recently by a law firm and I have therefore also asked my administration whether there is indeed such a list of serious diseases. The answer is negative. That list is mentioned in the regulatory texts you quote. At present, there is only the list of serious diseases contained in Parliament's document 50 1340/007, which led to the adoption of the Act of 28 April 2003 on supplementary pensions and the tax system of those pensions and of some additional social security benefits which amended Article 38 of the Income Tax Code. There is therefore no such list, and it is not an easy matter either, because the concept of a serious disease is difficult to objectify, which, of course, puts the problem of interpretation at risk. The legal stability of such a list is not an easy issue. I do not intend to draw up such a list at the moment, which does not mean that the debate is closed, but it is a very difficult issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u75	Minister, allow me to say that it is not the case that it should not be solved because it is difficult. If the legislation refers to a list of serious conditions, then the patient and the employer can demand legal stability and it is up to the legislator to ensure that. It is absolutely outrageous that, if an employer wishes to provide additional hospitalisation insurance for his employee, that employee might subsequently get another account from the State, in fact with the wet finger. After all, it depends on whether or not there will be a tax check. That's not good governance. I am therefore a little surprised by your answer and I am absolutely disappointed. After all, I am convinced that it is your job, as Minister of Health, to sit down with the Minister of Finance and see how tax legislation can be adapted, how legal certainty can be guaranteed for the citizen, who is both the employer and the employee, and how there can be some stability in this legislation. In any case, I will follow it up and I expect you to look for an answer. A serious condition is not easy to define, but there should certainly be opportunities through advisory bodies to align it in legal texts to ensure legal certainty for citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u76	Minister, I have recently been arrested by the provincial office of the Red Cross, by doctors and patients who are worried about the situation. In my lower-density province, hospitals can be away from patients unable to travel alone. For dialysis patients who have to go to the hospital three times a week, this constraint turns into a disability, and double pain somewhere. Hospitals, therefore, rely mainly on the Red Cross services in the southern part of the province, which arranges for the transport of these patients. It's the cheapest transport and by far! Since the establishment of this service, in order to minimise as much as possible the costs borne by the patient, the Red Cross has been running at the same rate and now at a loss. Indeed, it is based on the repayment fixed by the INAMI unchanged since 1968 (0.25 euro per km). Today, the price has risen slightly: it is 0.28 euro per km. This increase is well below the increase in the cost of living. As the Red Cross could no longer offer this service at such a low price, it decided to increase its prices from 2022 onwards. It remains the cheapest patient transport service, but the price boom is tragic for these patients. For example, a citizen informs us that while he was paying 30 euros (a flat rate requested by the Red Cross) before, he now pays close to 800 euros per month only for the journeys for his care he needs. In general, those who resort to the Red Cross are not the most fortunate. A priori part of these costs will be borne by the mutual, but the recent abandonment of the paying third party on the part of the mutuals makes these new charges visible to the patient. For some of them, such an amount is almost impossible to move forward. The paying third party was therefore also salvator in many cases. Mr. Minister, were you aware of this situation and of this change in the cost of transportation? Do you intend to increase the fixed reimbursement provided by INAMI so that it better represents the current cost of transporting these people in need of recurrent dialysis and, in general, for all chronically ill people? Could it not be expected, as with other chronic diseases, that travel costs would be included in the maximum charge mechanism? Finally, as I said, the mechanism of the paying third party that was actually used by the provincial mutuals to the limit of legality was withdrawn. They wanted to get back into the nails, but would it not be possible to change the rules to allow these mutualities to apply to these dialysis people also the mechanism of the paying third party?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u77	Mr Vajda, I know this important issue. First of all, I must inform you that compulsory health care insurance provides for an intervention in the costs of transport of the beneficiaries dialysised by the ministerial decree of 24 January 1985 laying down the intervention of compulsory health care insurance and allowances in the costs of travel of the beneficiaries dialysis. On my initiative, this intervention has recently – and I would say in the end – been improved. Its amount was increased by 20%, from 0.25 euro per km to 0.30 euro per km, although it had not been adjusted since its fixation. An indexation formula has been introduced to make this amount more appropriate in the future and the limits of the kilometres taken into account to benefit from this intervention have been repealed. These improvements shall apply from 1 January 2022. For your perfect information, this procedure is aimed at the movements of dialysis patients between their actual residence and the dialysis centre, and those of patients undergoing dialysis at home, for control consultations. If the beneficiaries use public transport (tram, metro, bus or train in the second class), the cost of the trip is fully covered by the compulsory health care insurance. If the beneficiary uses another means of transport, the compulsory insurance now reimburses EUR 0.30 per km on the basis of the actual return and return distance. In order to determine the distance that is taken into consideration in the case of group transport – if several beneficiaries use the same vehicle to go together to the dialysis centre – the sum of the distances between the actual residences of the different beneficiaries is taken together and the distance between the dialysis centre and the actual residence of the last beneficiary is added. Insurance assistance shall be granted to the beneficiary whose residence is furthest removed from the dialysis centre. Therefore, its insurer must notify the insurers with which the other beneficiaries are registered that the intervention has been paid. This reform that I have made is important, but I do not say that it solves all the problems. I'm not euphoric about that. On the basis of the inquiries and recommendations of the various actors, several more general reflections are under way to improve the financial accessibility of transport for medical reasons. In order to provide solutions for the benefit of patients, I plan to bring these reflections to the level of the Interministerial Conference Public Health, since in particular the organisation of non-emergency medical transport, including a possible tariff policy, falls within the competence of the federated entities. It is therefore necessary to consult each other. A working group within the ICD is in charge of this issue. The concrete situation that you are exposing to us will undoubtedly feed into this phase of reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u78	Mr Minister, I thank you for your interest in the issue and for the reflections that are under way, particularly at the level of the Interdepartmental Conference. With regard to the increase you mentioned, of course, we are going from 0.25 euro to 0.30 euro per kilometre. But, on the one hand, inflation has remained below 1998 levels. On the other hand, a "normal" vehicle is compensated more than 0.30 euro per kilometre, while a medical vehicle necessarily costs more to travel. You have said with great honesty that this solution does not allow to be euphoric but I insist that it is totally insufficient. In order to feed the reflections you have mentioned, I refer you to my question and to the possibility of considering the introduction of the mechanism of the maximum amount to be charged for these dialysis patients, comparable to many chronic patients who already benefit from it. This is a matter for the federal government, as is, unless it is mistaken, allowing mutualities to act and to benefit their subscribers from the mechanism of the paying third party. Even if a person is well reimbursed by his mutuality, having to come out tens or even hundreds of euros monthly for this type of transport, it is sometimes a lot and a lot too much. Minister, thank you for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u79	I did not reply on the aspect relating to the paying third party. I dare not improvise on this point. I will report this to my advisers and ask them to take this into account, but I promise nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u80	I didn't mention it in my written question. There is therefore no concern in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u81	Mr President, in the Netherlands an HIV variant has been discovered that is more aggressive than the previously circulating variants. He also appeared in Belgium. Early detection, early diagnosis and early treatment are very important. If the variant is not established in time in the patient and virus inhibitors are not started soon enough, they may lead to AIDS within 2 to 3 years. That's disturbing. I would have liked to hear from you how many cases have been detected in Belgium, whether there is sufficient diagnostic material available and whether there is sufficient access to tests and medication. Targeted screening and testing is incredibly important. Can you explain how many screenings are taking place and what treatment time is being used in positive cases? Is there an accessible access to preparations in primary care? Has there been an increase in this area? Is there sufficient awareness of this in patients at risk at the moment? What do you want and will you do in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u82	Mrs Depoorter, Belgian AIDS reference laboratories follow up on the variants of HIV infection. Based on baseline resistance determination, the genetic sequence of each HIV infection is known. There have been a number of cases of HIV infection in Belgium, less than ten, to be fair, of which the genetic sequence is similar to the variant found in the Netherlands. These were diagnosed between 2009 and 2017. Based on the current evidence, there is no evidence that the variant is currently circulating in Belgium. There is also no evidence that the variant would respond less well to antiretroviral treatment. Then you went into the importance of screening and testing. Well, compared to other European countries, we have a relatively high and constant HIV test rate in Belgium. A total of 629,063 tests were carried out in 2020. That gives a test figure of 56 per 1,000 inhabitants. That's all laboratory tests, speed tests aren't included. After diagnosis, a patient should be treated for HIV as soon as possible. This allows the patient to receive the first medical guidance and to initiate antiretroviral therapy. The time between confirmation of diagnosis and initiation of treatment may vary. In addition to structural factors, the following individual factors may also influence: the patient's clinical condition, the time needed to accept the diagnosis and the patient's willingness to start lifelong therapy. An analysis of data from patients enrolled in care between 2016 and 2019 in the reference centres, which thus treat more than 80% of patients in Belgium, shows that half of the patients start antiretroviral treatment within 28 days of diagnosis and three-quarters within two months. You asked if the accessibility to tests and medication is sufficient today. One can be tested for HIV in primary care, second-line care, specialized outpatient clinics and in hospitals. In addition, RIZIV finances three HIV reference centres to carry out low-threshold tests in Antwerp at the ITM help centre, in Brussels at the ELISA centre at the EMC Sint-Pieter, and in Liège at the Centre de Référence SIDE of CHU Liège and Sidasol asbl. People from specific groups can be tested in these centres free of charge and anonymously. To reach target groups at higher risk of HIV, testing programmes outside existing health centres were also launched. Those programmes are organised by the HIV reference centres themselves or by field organisations working with the specific target population. They are financed by both federal and regional authorities. In addition, there is the Swab2Know project, which offers HIV testing based on saliva collections during outreach activities. Salivation kits can also be ordered via the project website. Finally, the NGO Doctors of the World offers HIV and STD tests for people who do not have access to the regular health system. That is what I have to say about accessibility to tests. In my opinion, access to medication is optimal in the reference centres, where 98% of HIV patients in the medical follow-up receive antiretroviral treatment. As part of the ongoing HIV plan 2021-2026, my administration is currently looking at how we can further ensure access to quality care and antiretroviral treatment for all people with HIV in Belgium, regardless of their administrative situation. So I dare say that we are doing well in terms of tests and medication. The challenge is to stay at that level. That is precisely why I asked the interfederal cabinet working group on prevention to develop a new HIV plan. I hope we can finish that by the summer. Perhaps during that period you could return to this issue, to discuss where we stand and what the plans are.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u83	Minister, I will certainly do that. It's a point of attention, isn't it? You say that the antiretrovirals do not react less well, which is true, but the speed of diagnosis is important. We need to be able to reach the people. The examples of the three cities you mention are all good, but beyond that there are urban contexts where certain target groups are very difficult to reach. That is certainly a focus for that target group that is not quite well with its papers. It is also important because it is very expensive. The threshold is going to be very large. There is also a taboo atmosphere in certain target groups. If access via the first line is increased, it may be broken. Access to free tests and access to supervised medication can also be made there. Very often the guidance is important because it is not so easy to follow the medication schedule. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Caluwé's 55025057C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u85	Minister, a while ago we received a cry from i-man. Home nursing services are seriously concerned about their inevitable dive into the red figures for the current year. After all, the budget format of the RIZIV for 2022 was prepared last summer, with the spring principles, when inflation was still rather limited and the outlook was also very moderate. However, since August 2021, inflation has increased significantly, with a consequent impact on the index and expected labour costs. These are now estimated to be 2,383,333 euros higher. On the other hand, as compensation, 0.79% is on the revenue from the nomenclature. At EUR 47 million, this amounts to around EUR 371,300. The difference between both, increase in labour costs and lower income, creates a gap of more than 2 million euros in a sector that is about break-even. The results of the Belfius study, which shows that most hospitals do not pass the financial stress test, may also apply to home care. It is not just about i-mens, but also about the other home nursing services. Do you foresee a solution for closing this gap? If so, what solution or solutions are you thinking of? Are these temporary solutions, or do you think that a more structural solution is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u86	Mr Minister, Mr Yoleen Van Camp has repeatedly asked questions about the remuneration of home nurses. There have been distress calls since the covid crisis, but before that there was a problem. The compensation for, for example, the administration of a syringe was anything but sufficient. Moreover, we are now in a situation where fuel prices and the prices of all kinds of raw materials have been increased. How will you deal with that? How will you ensure that home nursing services are somehow a bit profitable and that home nurses remain sufficiently motivated to provide their patients with the necessary care? In that context, I would have liked to have heard from you what your plans are for reading the eIDs. After all, they have been temporarily suspended because of corona. Are there any plans to introduce that today, so that the home nurse should read every patient's eID now that code yellow has arrived?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u87	Mrs Depoorter, your question about the eIDs is absolutely pertinent, indeed an issue. However, I am afraid to give the answer out of my head. That question was not in your preparation either, perhaps you can come back to it later. I have already answered this question, but I seem to be losing my memory for a moment. I understand the budgetary elements you are putting forward. Let me outline the context. The indexation mechanisms in the RIZIV budgetary objective are mainly of two types. Firstly, there are the professional sectors, i.e. doctors, dentists, home nurses, physiotherapists, bandagists, orthopedists, opticians, audiciens and so on. There, for the year T, is indexed on the basis of the evolution of the flattened health index, i.e. the average value of the health indices of the last four months between June tT-2 and June T-1. Then there are the institutional sectors, with the day-to-day price, rehabilitation and so on. There the index is based on the estimate of the excess of the pivotal index of the flattened health index during the year T. That is, of course, an important difference. The increase in fuel and energy prices is not absorbed by the health index, as it is calculated by removing a number of products from the basket of the consumer price index, namely tobacco products, alcoholic beverages and motor fuels other than LPG. Many years ago, it was considered that these are not the most healthy products. For 2022, the amount entered in the budget for the professional sectors shall be EUR 138.7 million. This is an index of 0.79 %. The amount entered for the institutions shall be EUR 45,3 million, based on the initial hypothesis of exceeding the spill-over index in June 2022, i.e. applying the indexation on 1 July 2022. I do not need to tell you that since the budgetary commitment for 2022 in October 2021, the elements have evolved considerably. They will also continue to evolve. The flattened health index for December 2021 indicates an increase of 3,79 % compared to June 2020. That is 3 % more than the 0.79% of the 2022 budget, which corresponds to 527 million euros for the whole 2022. The overrun of the central index planned for June 2022 took place in December 2021, with effect from 1 January 2022. That meant an additional cost of 68 million. The current estimate of the flattened health index for June 2022 implies that the inflation rate that would occur on 1 January 2023 for the professional sectors would be 6,65 %. The Federal Planning Office also indicated that the next overrun of the spill index would take place in February 2022, with an additional cost of EUR 93 million in 2022, and that it could be followed by a new overrun in April 2022, with an additional cost of EUR 71 million in 2022. For the benefits in kind indexed through the flattened health index, the indexing mass foreseen for 2022 is therefore much lower than the estimated price increase. This problem will be solved by itself from 1 January 2023, if the sharp increase will be absorbed in the new index mass. This will, of course, be seen as a cost throughout 2022 by the various healthcare providers in these sectors. In the case of benefits in kind indexed via the central index, it will automatically be indexed so that the various care providers will see their rates adjusted more quickly. I asked RIZIV to inform me of the regulatory provisions that could be used to enable healthcare professionals to cope with the exceptional situation of 2022, as well as the financial consequences that these provisions could entail. On the basis of these elements, I will return to the government, Parliament and the bodies of the RIZIV. I shall do so at the latest in the course of the budgetary control of March-April, for the swiftest possible implementation of an at least partial correction of the index mass. This solution is all the more necessary for the sectors for which the indexation is used to pay employees. So the problem is clear. I must continue to inform myself and address my coalition partners in the government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u88	Minister, it was not obvious to follow everything in relation to the various indexations, but it is reassuring to hear that you know the problem. It may have been an early question, but I am reassured to hear that you are looking for solutions. After all, it is certainly a problem that will not only affect home care but also other sectors. We will come back to this as soon as we get a signal that there is movement in the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u89	Mr Minister, it was indeed a lot of figures. However, the problem is very clear, as you said. In 2022, the healthcare providers for whom we were all applauding two years ago will face a cost that we cannot answer today. The fact that you asked the question to RIZIV is good, as is the fact that you will be talking to your coalition partners, but we still have to wait for the outcome. I will ask this question again in any case once the budgetary control has taken place. After all, it is remarkable that we have made so much effort to ensure that people are kept in bed, while those same people are now in financial uncertainty. These people should now be contributing where they have given the best of themselves over the past two years and they are actually still doing so. Maybe we'll even meet a new wave in the fall. I'm sure this will be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u90	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Creemers' 55025117C will be converted into a written question. Mrs Samyn asks her question No. 55025146C off.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u91	Mr Minister, on 2 February 2021 I asked you a few questions here in committee about a doctoral study conducted at the Free University of Amsterdam which shows that rubber granulate as an artificial turf material could be particularly harmful to health and the environment. Your services would request the information from that scientific publication and deliver it to other competent Belgian authorities. Minister, we are now more than a year later. I have the following questions. First of all, was the doctoral study requested in the meantime? If so, did you receive them? Secondly, was the study already sent to the competent Belgian authorities? If so, to which authorities was it sent? Thirdly, if you have received them, what great conclusions can you draw from the study yourself for the health of the users of artificial grass fields? Finally, could you possibly give me the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u92	Mr Moyaers, we have indeed requested and received the doctoral study, quoted in the Zembla article. We have not yet distributed the study to the other authorities concerned. However, the study has been communicated to the REACH Scientific Committee with the question of whether the Committee could draw up an opinion on the study, more specifically to assess whether the analytical methods used in the study could add value to the restrictions under REACH. The Committee was also asked to examine whether the study indicated that the list of PAHs to be measured, the abbreviation for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, should be further extended for the REACh restriction. The Committee is currently working on the opinion. It will most likely publish a final opinion in May 2022. So I'm still waiting for that advice. You ask what the big conclusions are. The study in question describes a new method for analysing PAHs and other substances in rubber granulate. The study thus provides an overview of substances analysed and describes the analytical method developed for rubber granulate. Therefore, the study did not focus on concentration or risk assessment. However, the study indicates that quantification of all substances present in rubber granulate is essential to establish a correct toxicological profile. PAHs are a group of substances that are often present together. It is therefore necessary to identify all substances present and thus to develop correctly the restriction conditions that meet the currently known risks. You asked if I could get you the study. Yes, I will ask my collaborator, Mrs Schellens, to deliver it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hear you say that a final opinion will be issued in May 2022. That'll be a while. I understand it's a fairly technical report. I'm glad to receive that. During the presentation of the PhD study, 46 newly found substances were mentioned, a number of which would be carcinogenic or harmful. It is also important to know that many of these toxic substances are more easily leaking out of the rubber pellets. So it is not just about environmental risks, but also about health risks, especially in the case of skin contact when playing on artificial grass. It is in the interests of all of us that we continue to follow this closely. I'll be happy to go over the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u94	Minister, on 4 February Test Purchase and Socialist Mutuality reported questionable situations in private laboratories. Research in 12 private laboratories shows that lab workers who are not in agreement and are therefore allowed to charge supplements do an average of 4 to 5 times more analyses than their fellow patients. That finding suggests that labs have analysis carried out by conventional employees, but who in the name of unconventional colleagues invoicing supplements for the purpose of charging supplements. However, in a Royal Decree that entered into force in 2017 to protect patients from abuse, it is clear that supplements should only be charged if the patient has been informed in advance and agreed to do so. It would therefore be logical if those supplements had disappeared completely in the meantime. After all, no one deliberately wants to pay for the same analysis. Yet the supplements are still commonplace. For the 2019 performance year alone, the supplements amounted to no less than 2.5 million in the Socialist Mutuality. According to a rough estimate, this amounts to between EUR 7.9 million and EUR 8.6 million for the whole population. Test Purchase and Socialist Mutuality therefore ask you to ban those supplements on lab analyses. After all, they are caregivers who do not choose the patient for themselves and with whom he has no contact. Do you have any more information to support the suspicion arising from the investigation? If so, will you limit this questionable practice? If so, do you agree with the proposal to abolish the supplements? Do you think that's a viable way of thinking?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u95	Mrs Vanpeborgh, I have taken note of the study quoted at 12 labs. Without prejudice to the importance of the determination, I would like to put it quite clearly. In accordance with the Royal Decree of 18 October 2017, the RIZIV publishes a list of conflicted labs of clinical biology and pathological anatomy on its website. In conventional labs, all clinical biologists, doctors and pharmacists are fully engaged. Of the 131 labs of clinical biology, 102 are fully conventional. I would like to make it clear that there would be a generalised problem on the ground: the 12 labs are not representative of the sector. In the study it is stated that in the 12 labs non-conventioned lab workers perform on average four to five times more analyses than their conventional colleagues. This suggests that some benefits in kind are not invoiced in the name of the healthcare provider who carried them out. If that is the case, it is fraud, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. I haven't had any confirmation of that so far. That is the task of the inspection services. Another problem raised in the study relates to Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 18 October 2017, which states that supplements may only be charged if the laboratory can demonstrate that the patient has been informed prior to the reduction, either directly or indirectly through the prescriber. In reality, this raises a number of problems. Invoices are not always very clear, it takes some effort to find the supplements in it. Patients are not sufficiently familiar with the fact that the burden of proof of the prior information is based on the lab and the amounts of the supplements are not such as to challenge the invoicing at the lab. The implementation plan 2021-2023 seeks to improve a number of these issues in a generic manner in billing. For example, point 5.5 states that it must be ensured that it becomes very clear and transparent for all the parties concerned, i.e. the patients, the carers, the sickness funds, the control bodies, in particular the health care provider who, on behalf of the health care provider, has invoiced the benefit to the sickness fund and who is, in practice, the tax beneficiary of the insurance agreement paid by the sickness fund. This analysis is ongoing, but it also requires the elaboration of the legal means. If irregularities are detected, they will of course be sanctioned. The KB of 18 October 2017 starts from the idea that it is up to the patient to contest the billing, but we find in practice that this does not happen. In my view, this is a task for the sickness funds to draw their members' attention more proactively to billed supplements and to prior information obligations. Our health care system is based on the principle that doctors have the freedom to accede or not to the national agreement on fees. A complete ban on supplements to laboratory analyses means that de facto this principle for benefits in kind in the labs is abandoned. That's not obvious. That is why I am starting with a global review of the regulations relating to pay supplements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u96	Thank you very much for your specific and clear answer, Minister. I note that there are real plans to improve the situation. That is a very good and necessary step. However, I have also noted that the twelve involved are not representative of the whole sector. That one too is an important fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot's 55025157C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u98	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, you are asking what information I have on the use of 4-MMC in Belgium over the last five years. 4-MMC, better known as mephedrone, has been on the Belgian drug market for years. Therefore, the substance is also questioned in most surveys and registrations on resource use. For example, we have insights about the use of mephedrone in the nightlife environment, among people who inject drugs and use spray exchange programs, people who apply for treatment on substance problems and also incidents reported through the reporting of hospitals and other toxicological laboratories. However, few initiatives are representative of the general population. The studies that allow to review trends over the past five years indicate a relatively stable to rising trend in the use of mephedrone. I give you an example, mephedrone is mentioned in 0.1 % of treatment episodes in 2015, which were 26 cases, compared to 0.5 % in 2020, that was 134. That's a clear rise. In absolute figures, it's not much. You asked me if I could indicate who's using the drug. Most drug use studies focus on a specific subgroup. As a result, it is not so easy to make a statement about the statistical profile on that basis. Those who addressed a problem related to mephedrone between 2011 and 2020 are mainly young adults, with an average age of 25 years. More than a third of them live with their parents and a quarter live alone. These people report on average five substances that cause problems and give rise to the demand for help. More than half of them also use cocaine and cannabis and a third use hallucinogens. Mephedrone is also commonly used in a sexual context. In chem sex, a combination of chemical drugs is used to experience an intense sexual experience. This occurs in this group mainly among gay or bisexual men, as well as among sex workers. For example, during the survey of sex workers in Brussels in 2020, 20% of respondents reported the use of mephedrone. You asked a question about hospitalizations. Based on the data from the treatment applications in Belgium, we can say that in 2020 alone, mephedrone was reported in 134 new treatment episodes, which is 0.5% of the total number of treatment episodes. Approximately one third of these cases also reported mephedrone as the main substance for treatment. For trend analyses we look at the situation within a stable group of treatment centers. We notice a significant increase in the number of reports from mephedrone between 2015 and 2020, especially in Flanders. I do not want to say that there is a statistically significant difference between the regions, but there is indeed a strong increase in Flanders. A systematic screening for resource use is not applied in our emergency services. Toxicological or clinical labs do have a reporting obligation to report to the Early Warning System of Sciensano if mephedrone were found in selected analyses. Based on this, we also notice an increase in reports in recent years. For example, mephedrone use was clearly demonstrated in 16 hospitalisations in 2020. In 2021, 47 analyses in the context of a hospitalisation showed that mephedrone was involved, of which 1 was fatal. In one third of these intoxications, other substances, such as amphetamines, ketamines and cocaine, were reported concomitantly. There is a clear increase in a fixed group of treatment centres. Among people who inject drugs and use Flemish spray exchange programs, the trend is rather stable. An annual survey shows that in 2016, 8.3% of respondents used mephedrone. By 2020, that will be 9.4%. Mephedrone has been on the Belgian drug market for years. Although only used by a select audience, we still see indications that mephedrone use is a stable to rising trend on the recorded figures. There are clear signs of use in persons with problematic use or in problematic situations such as chemsex. A permanent monitoring of this substance and attention to more prevention is therefore definitely appropriate. As far as prevention is concerned, I would refer you to my colleagues in the Community who are responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Your answer confirms my suspicion that mephedrone is on the rise in young men who often use cocaine. The transition from cocaine to mephedrone is somehow facilitated in Flanders. I find that very disturbing, given the exceptionally addictive substance that is mephedrone, which cocaine addicts are less common. I think that the drugs policy you will be formulating in the IMC should certainly also focus on the sensitisation, treatment and identification of this phenomenon. The Länder are responsible for sensitisation. There too, I shall be calling the bell, because I find this finding from the practice of a young generation experimenting with prohibited substances very worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u100	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of June 2021, Mr Auwers, President of the Public Health Office, did not receive a positive evaluation, which we discussed earlier. An improvement path was established. A second non-positive evaluation followed. There was a working meeting and a sick note appeared to have been submitted, replacing Mr Auwers. This happened for the second time, because during the covid crisis Mr Auwers was also replaced. Now it turns out that the replacement of Mr. Auwers has also been replaced, so at the moment the FPS Public Health is sailing like a steerless ship. However, in this exit phase after the corona crisis there is a lot of work to be done, also in the preparation phase of a possible new wave in the autumn. Minister, is Mr. Auwers still on sick leave? When will he be in office again? How are Mr Auwers' discussions, improvements or rehabilitation going on at the moment? What decisions will be taken? Is there a re-integration planned after the absence? Do you have a sustainable solution for the leadership of the Public Health Office? Which ad interim director is the move today? How do you see a sustainable leadership for the Public Health Office in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u101	Mrs Depoorter, Mr Auwers is still on sick leave with valid sick notes. So I don't know when he'll be back. The term of office shall apply here. The mid-term review of June 2021 gave the indication 'to develop'. In view of his illness, Mr. Auwers has not yet shown any further activities. At present, Mr Pierre Kerkhofs, Director-General, has been appointed to replace the President in his absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-08-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic713x.u102	Mr Minister, that is a real problem, a very important FOD, which is still running smoothly. I understand you can't say much about this file. I also understand that sick leave is a protection, but in this I really believe that you should focus on the future of the Public Health Office and on ensuring a well-organised public institution to manage health care. I will certainly come back to this. It is remarkable that such situations can continue to exist at the head of a federal institution.
