ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u1	Minister, in June the Special Committee on Construction was set up as a new committee in the Federal Conciliation Committee. The FBC website states that that committee was set up to develop the necessary initiatives to anchor mediation in the construction sector. The modern construction process requires cooperation between different parties and is characterised by high technical and legal complexity, which makes it open to conflict. It is therefore a good thing that consideration is given to whether construction disputes can be resolved outside conventional legal proceedings. After all, ongoing conflicts during a construction process create additional costs and a lot of frustration for builders. The special Committee on Construction aims to raise awareness and promote the benefits of mediation in the construction sector, which I certainly support. However, there already exists in Belgium a Reconciliation Committee on Construction, an initiative of Bouwunie, the Confederation of Construction, Test Purchase, the Federation of Architects of Belgium and the Network Architects of Flanders. The Special Committee on Construction of the FBC has been established for one year, but there is still no list of approved construction intermediaries available. The construction sector and the mediation bodies are requesting parties to draw up the criteria together with the FBC and wish to be involved. Minister, do you have any statistics on building disputes? Can these statistics be made available to recognised mediators in the context of active public access to management? How does the Special Committee on Construction relate to the Reconciliation Committee on Construction? What initiatives has the Special Committee already taken and how are the mediation bodies actively involved, for example in the field of training and support? How were the members and the chairman of that new Special Committee on Construction elected and appointed? Where can relevant documents be looked at in this context, given the openness of administration? How can it be ensured that the FBC retains its independence as members of the Special Committee on Construction to promote mediation in building disputes, also be professionally active as a mediator in building disputes? How should rolling confusion be avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u2	Mrs Platteau, for your question on the recognised mediators, please refer to the website of the Federal Conciliation Committee where you can find figures on the number of mediations per year and by category, including construction-related ones. The Reconciliation Committee on Construction also provides statistics on the number of files handled in its annual reports and on its website. I'll get you those figures in writing. The figures on the total number of building disputes, including the legal disputes, are not available because many of them are not qualified as construction disputes, but as claims of invoices, for example. As far as your second question is concerned, there are indeed differences between these committees. For example, the Special Committee on Construction has a wider scope because no distinction is made on the basis of the status of the parties to the dispute. On the other hand, the Reconciliation Committee on Construction only deals with B2C disputes (i.e. between contractor or architect and private) and no B2B disputes. The way of conflict resolution is also different. In conciliation, the mediator acts as a neutral party, which allows the parties themselves to come to a solution by negotiation, while in conciliation, the expert-conciliator himself steers a certain solution. Finally, mediation may be terminated at any time by one of the parties, while in the event of reconciliation both parties must agree in advance to withdraw the dispute from the jurisdiction of the court and entrust it to the Reconciliation Committee. The parties cannot come back to this and the report drawn up at the end is binding on both parties. I come to your third question. The Special Committee on Construction was only established last year and started a survey of the professional sectors, such as the Order of Architects and the Confederation of Construction, to assess their needs and their expectations for good mediation. The first initiatives are mainly aimed at promoting mediation through, for example, information campaigns and information evenings in the sector organisations. There will also be an electronic consultation of the mediators shortly so that a list can be drawn up from which each mediator can be selected on the basis of his specific competences. That list will be accessible to everyone via the website. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the permanent and alternate members of the special committees are appointed by law by the General Assembly of the Federal Conciliation Committee. In addition, the rules for the publication of vacancies, the submission of applications and the nomination of members are laid down in a Ministerial Decision of 15 April 2005. Documents relating to the appointment of the members and the chairman may be requested from the secretariat of the Federal Conciliation Committee. As for your final question, the Rules of Procedure of the Federal Conciliation Committee also apply to the Special Committee on Construction. As you already know, it contains a provision in case of conflict of interest. For example, the member who has a conflict of interest should immediately report this to the chairman. If the Chair has a conflict of interest, this shall be reported to the other members. The Member who has a conflict of interest must leave the sitting during the debate and during the vote on this item. This is also mentioned in the report of the meeting. In addition, the rules provide that the Bureau is the only one responsible for external communication of the Federal Conciliation Committee. Members of the Commission have the right to take public positions on their own behalf, but only on non-confidential issues dealt with by the Federal Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u3	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the figures you will give me. Of course, I find that very interesting. You say they can be found on the website, but I note that the website of the FBC has been containing the message "under construction" for over a year. That's why it's not always so easy to find things back. I therefore hope that this will also be done so that the website becomes more accessible. This is very important for an institution whose aim is to promote and communicate. This should be user-friendly. Thank you for your explanation of the difference between the Special Committee on Construction and the Reconciliation Committee. That was a clear answer for me. Of course, I will look into the initiatives taken in the Special Committee on Construction. I'll look into the questioning and I'll be sure to follow up. As far as the members of the committee are concerned, you say that there is a rule of procedure which ensures that there can be no conflicts of interest. You always refer to the practice in which Members have to leave the sitting when it comes to themselves. But it's about more than that. Especially from the field there are signs that the people who are there often have their own practice or their own training institutes and do not always communicate so clearly to the outside world. I think there's a problem there. The question is whether the domestic regulations are sufficient. Can the FBC organise itself sufficiently? That's what I'm still worried about. As you know, I have already asked several questions about this. In the meantime, you know my concerns in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u4	Minister, I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u5	Mrs Dillen, the prisoners currently in Ypres prison who were there yesterday 37 are being transferred this month. Depending on their status, they are transferred to an arrest house or a penal house. I come to your second question. There were consultations with the Ypres prison and the DAB. The houses of arrest shall be informed and involved in the proceedings. The standard classification procedure is followed for the penal homes. Every week the free places are passed on and filled in. As far as your third question is concerned, a small staff contingent will continue to work in Ypres to ensure the safety of the site during the work. An important number of staff will be employed at the Kortrijk detention centre. All other staff could indicate to which establishment they wish to be seconded, either in the vicinity of Ypres or further away. Specifically, these are the penitentiary facilities of Oudenaarde, Ghent, Bruges, Ruiselede, Dendermonde and Sint-Gillis. Preferences were identified and granted, taking into account the degree and service efficiency. Staff were kept regularly informed of the state of play. Most employees have been given their first or second choice. I can tell you that everything is going smoothly, which I myself witnessed when I visited Ypres prison yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your brief but clear answer. I am pleased to hear that the preferences of the penitentiary staff are being taken into account and that they have at least been given their second choice, which seems important to me for a good working environment. You have said that the current prisoners are moving to detention homes or prisons, depending on their status. Is it about prisons near Ypres? I hope that it is not a question of moving to the other side of the country, so to speak, of ensuring that the visitation arrangements for both lawyers and family and friends can be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u7	Mrs Dillen, the prisoners are mainly referred to the arrest houses of Bruges, Tournai and Ghent and the criminal homes of, among others, Ruiselede.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u8	I refer again to my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u9	Mrs Dillen, as regards your first question, I refer to the answers I have given in recent weeks. The idea of keeping the prison of Saint Gillis and the old prison of Dendermonde open is a temporary answer to carry out sentences in a humane and correct manner, within the context of the current overpopulation in prisons. Right now, we're mapping everything for this. Your second question concerns the preliminary results of the campaign. It was already launched in December 2021 for the province of Antwerp and has produced good results. A total of 188 people posted in December for a job as a penitentiary security assistant in one of the prisons in the province of Antwerp. That is an unseen success. After all, this province suffers from severe labour shortages and competition from the port. The procedures are in full swing and will end at the end of February 2022. It is therefore too early to report concrete results. The campaign was also launched in November 2021 for the various vacant places for care functions in prisons. With more than 200 applicants we can also speak of a success. For these functions too, the selection procedure is still ongoing and we cannot yet give any concrete results. A previous selection procedure for a job as a penitentiary security assistant in the Brussels prisons resulted in a total of 53 laureates. The medical fitness study for these laureates is currently scheduled. In March 2022, the campaign will be launched for the Brussels and Dendermond prisons. As regards your third question, there is currently a pilot project in Antwerp in which the current rules apply a shortened selection procedure. Specifically, this means that the first module with a pre-screening via a PC test is not organized and all competences are tested during a selection call. We see that with this accelerated procedure fewer candidates will drop out during the selection procedure. For the sake of success in Antwerp, the pilot project will be extended to the prisons of Haren and Dendermonde. In addition, we are working with the Minister of Civil Service to adapt the rules to simplify selection procedures. There are currently two KBs in a formal negotiation phase with the trade unions. A first KB is a KB that enables continuous recruitment for critical functions and high volume functions. The selection procedure is adjusted so that all candidates are no longer to be seen before a ranking can be drawn up and the laureates can be addressed. By means of intermediate ranking, selection procedures will be continuously opened and the laureates can also be offered a position more quickly. This way of recruiting will considerably speed up the process. A second KB allows for the contractual recruitment of posts within the prisons. We do not intend to contract the post, but it remains a fact that contractual recruitment is still faster than statutory recruitment. By focusing on both contractual and statutory recruitment, we can respond much more flexibly to needs. To your fourth question, I can answer that the information is incorrect. On the contrary, the basic training of staff currently takes about 50 days. The duration of the initial training shall be increased to six months. In addition, the new functions of security assistant and detention counsellor are being invested in a new training pathway, both in terms of content and methods. The training provides for a variety of learning modules in a training centre and workplace learning on the ground. The basic training consists of two parts, namely a common route and a specific route. The common route lasts four months and consists of 45 days of lessons, supplemented by workplace learning on the ground. After the common trajectory, both functions will also be completed by a specific two-month course, consisting of ten days of lessons, supplemented by four weeks of workplace learning. The content of the training is tailored to the competences that employees have to develop in order to perform their duties correctly. They will therefore be sufficiently prepared effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u10	Minister, 188 people postulated in the Antwerp recruitment campaign. That's not a bad result. If I understand your answer correctly, the full procedure will be completed by the end of February 2022 so that hopefully they can get to work very quickly. You explained the reduction and simplification of the selection procedure and referred to the pilot project. In any case, Minister, I would like to express the hope that there will still be sufficient control and screening of all candidates, especially with regard to the security aspect. They perform a very specific function in a place where safety is not insignificant. Finally, regarding my question about the union, clearly wrong information has been shared in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u11	Minister, we have heard several times that the recommendations of the POC Terro will continue to be implemented. In March 2021, the Government delivered an uncoordinated document of more than 600 pages to the Chamber, which was the subject of a discussion in March 2021. Not least to improve the legibility of this document, the Minister for the Interior asked the committee secretariat to draw up a synthesis document, which would have been finalised in June 2021. I have to say that there is no synthesis document available so far. Can you tell us when you and the Home Secretary will finalise this synthesis document? When will this be delivered to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u12	Mrs Dillen, we are currently working on an up-to-date state of implementation of the recommendations. We will provide you with the synthesis document next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u14	Minister, last week the trade unions held a 24-hour strike in prisons to demand better wages. This action will take place in the run-up to budgetary control in March. Now that there is a preliminary agreement with the police on higher wages, the trade unions also want an effort for federal officials, that is what it sounds like. They call for a re-evaluation of the baremas, which, like the police, has not happened for 20 years. These baremas urgently need to be reviewed, also in order to make certain functions attractive again. Some profiles are particularly difficult to recruit because wages are no longer proportionate to wages in the private sector, according to the unions. The trade unions apparently submitted these demands to the Prime Minister's and Deputy Prime Ministers' Cabinets on Tuesday 8 February and reinforced their demands with a 24-hour strike. What is your position, Minister? Are you prepared to support these demands?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u15	Madam President, Minister, public service officials are calling for salary improvements. Penitentiary officers also requested a re-evaluation of their functions. This upgrading is necessary not only to ensure fair pay for officers, but also to make this function more attractive for new recruits. For years, prison officers have been understaffed and the lack of candidates is a pretext that is often heard in the mouths of politicians to justify this situation. As a result of the struggle, police officers have recently achieved a 5 per cent wage increase. This is still insufficient, but it is a first step that must serve as an example. How do you respond to prison officers? Are you going to sit around the table to propose a reclamation of this function? If so, what do you offer them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, Mr Boukili, penitentiary staff are part of the federal public office. The action provided for a general strike commitment in respect of the federal office. My fellow Minister of Civil Service is responsible for this, so I cannot make statements in her name about the negotiations she is conducting. Unlike the federal police, the prison staff is part of the federal public office. This means that the sectoral agreement which the Minister of Civil Service will conclude with the trade unions will also apply to prison staff. I firmly believe in the intrinsic motivation of the staff. That is why we are going to make the prison officer's job more attractive in terms of content and offer better working conditions, such as modern infrastructure, better training, the provision of vacant posts and sufficient staff. In the past, initiatives have been taken to make the profession more financially attractive, so that correctional officers already benefit from higher-than-average pay scales for federal public servants. Today, unfortunately, we must note that these initiatives have achieved little success, because we are still facing a recruitment problem. Research has also shown that, for the new generation of employees, the content of work and working conditions are a more decisive factor than wages. We therefore reform the prison officer's profession and divide it into two new functions, namely, the detention attendant and the security assistant. The detention attendant supports and guides the inmate. To this end, he will receive an accompanying allowance per day. This proposal is currently being negotiated with trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will also put the question to the Minister of Civil Service. However, I cannot imagine that you will not be asked for an opinion on this matter. I think it is important that you, too, make your voice heard in that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u18	Minister, you're sending me back to your colleague, but you're in the same government and you need to have a specific vision for prison officers. It's a specific profession. These officers have been understaffed for years. With overpopulation, their working conditions are extremely difficult. In addition, they accumulate hundreds of days of late leave. You always say that you can't find candidates for the positions, but you have to make this function more attractive and it requires a salary upgrade. I invite all prison officers and their union representatives to wage a struggle for this salary upgrade and I support them. This is seen with the police: it is through the struggle and not through discussions within the ministerial offices that they have obtained a salary increase, even if it is not sufficient. I therefore call on prison officers and their representatives to do the same, to fight for this salary increase. Apparently, if we wait for the government to move forward, we can wait a long time. They've been asking for it for years, to the point of not being able to take leave because they're understaffed. I say this once again: I give my support to all prison officers in their struggle to have better conditions and better wages. I hope they can put pressure on your government to win.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u19	Minister, I am a tourist in this committee, but this problem also affects my political core business, namely road safety. Article 23 of the Law on the use of languages in lawsuits provides that anyone who is tried before a Dutch-speaking police court may request that the French administration of justice be made before a French-speaking police court. Such a request for language change cannot even be rejected if an sworn interpreter is present. In other words, a simple request leads to a referral to the nearest French-speaking police court. The main problem that arises in the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde is that the waiting period for the French-speaking police court in Brussels can reach one year. As a result, a driver whose driving disability has been determined by the judge, for example when it comes to someone with a heavy alcohol problem, can continue to drive around all this time. The determination of driving incapacity is not accepted as a reason to reject a language change. If the waiting period for the French-speaking police court in Brussels can last months to a year, then that person can continue to drive around, with dramatic consequences for road safety. That can't be the intention. I thought road safety was one of your priorities after all. The Procurator des Konings van Halle-Vilvoorde, Mrs Ine Van Wymersch, argues in favour of amending Article 23 of that language law in the sense that an application for language change cannot be allowed when an sworn interpreter is present. That seems to me to be a very fair solution. In this way, the rights of French speakers are, of course, safeguarded through an interpreter and, on the other hand, it allows us to improve road safety and play briefly on the ball. Could this solution be accepted? Do you recognise that there is indeed a major problem here in terms of road safety? What other solutions do you see if you do not agree with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u20	Mr President, first of all, I am very pleased that a colleague from the Vivaldizente majority also points out the importance of working on this issue at last. He talks about road safety, but I was talking about the clear division of the judicial district of Halle-Vilvoorde about a year and a half ago. Just as in the rest of Flanders, we ask for monolingualism in the administration of justice, not always a referral when a defendant opts for French justice, because that puts things off. The prosecutor is now talking about a danger to road safety, as these people keep driving around for a year before their trial is on the agenda. Last year, we've been suing language shopping. Whole procedures need to be redone. A new investigating judge must be appointed, even if it is not about the part of the police court. Attorney Van Wymersch also said that work must be done to prevent such situations from occurring. You replied at the time that you were meeting with the prosecutor and that you were working on it. You also mentioned that it is not an easy dossier. Now, a year and a half later, we see that nothing has happened. Mrs Van Wymersch almost recreates a copy of her complaining vocals in the press. We don't see any movement with you. Members of the majority are also now calling for work to be done. The prosecutor proposes to amend Article 23 of the language legislation so that a defendant who has an interpreter can no longer request a referral. Mr. Secretary, have you had a meeting with the Attorney General about this? What will you do to finally bring the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde into line with all other judicial districts in Flanders? With regard to the rights of the defence, the proposal consists of providing an interpreter and amending Article 23. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u21	Minister, the situation has become even more complicated since the sixth state reform. Since then, we have had a well-functioning parquet in Halle-Vilvoorde, but to the great frustration of many, this is hampered by a separate arrangement in the Brussels district. I will explain the principle of personality of Article 23 of the language law, which has been quoted here several times. It states that the language depends on the majority of suspects, but in Halle-Vilvoorde the problem is even more serious. In addition, the majority of suspects may change in the course of the investigation, which means that not only the file should be transferred, but also referenced to a different language role and often need to be translated again. Of course, Article 23 plays a much stronger role throughout the territory, but specifically for our arrondissement. The previous prosecutor at the police court in Halle, Mr Steppe, called the alarm in his farewell interview at the time. He also identified large differences in penalties between the Brussels police court and those in Halle-Vilvoorde. The previous prosecutor of the King, Mr Freyne, also stated that there was a feeling that French-speaking judges were more lenient than Dutch-speaking judges. That is, of course, the reason why forum shopping is taking place. In this way, a French-speaking court seeks to obtain milder penalties, at best from the point of view of the person concerned. Mr Vandenbroucke mentioned traffic offences, but the problem is of course much wider: it concerns all the crimes committed on the territory of the district. This is how it is played to end up on a statute of limitations in certain cases. Now there is the prosecutor's proposal to adapt a sleeve to that forum shopping and to exclude it by amending Article 23. In this way, the case can still be dealt with if an interpreter is present, which is usually the case. That is why I have the following questions. How do you feel about the Halle-Vilvoorde Attorney's proposal? What measures can be taken to prevent forum shopping? Could you, for example, instruct the Supreme Court of Justice as a neutral body to investigate the unity of justice within the judicial district of Brussels, in particular the differences in the case law of similar cases between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking investigative courts, criminal courts and police courts? Can you do that? Why can't you or won't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 23 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases provides for the right of referral to a police court for the accused who does not know the language of the police court or who expresses himself better in one of the other national languages. That is a fundamental principle of language law in Belgium, a country with three official country languages according to Article 4 of our Constitution. It is considered obvious that a defendant is referred if he or she does not know the language of court or expresses himself better in another national language used by a court in Belgium. The problem is indeed not new. I refer to the question raised by the President, who refers to a report in 2014 and 2017. During the past legislatures, the government has not gone beyond the following punctual changes. First, in the context of road safety, reference can be made to the Act of 6 March 2018. In order to avoid abuse, where the case is postponed for a long period of time and is finally retiring, the last paragraph of Article 23 provides that the limitation period of criminal proceedings shall be suspended for a maximum of one year from the date of referral to the day of the first hearing, where the substance of the case will be resumed by the court. In this way, the aim is to prevent referral from leading to impunity. In addition, there is also Article 16 (2) third paragraph of the above-mentioned Act of 1935 as amended by the Law of 25 April 2014. It lays down for the Brussels judicial district that, in the preliminary examination of cases of urgency, the court in which the case was originally brought may, on a provisional basis and during the time required for reasons of urgency, continue to deal with the case with, if necessary, the cooperation of an interpreter. It was a technical amendment following the Law of 19 July 2012. The intention of this provision was, according to the clarifications made by the then Minister of Justice, to avoid situations where a suspect should be released because at the very last moment he would opt for another language regime. This last amendment is somewhat in line with Mr Vandenbroucke's proposal to amend Article 23 (4) of the 1935 Act. The proposal will be examined. Other proposals have also been put forward by the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde. We are studying these proposals. With the authorities involved, we'll check that out. I've had a long talk with Attorney Van Wymersch about the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet. The language problem has also been addressed. Since then, there have been regular contacts between my cabinet and herself. For the sake of feasibility, it is of course important to refer to Article 157a of the Constitution, which provides for a two-thirds majority for essential elements relating to the use of languages in court cases in the judicial district of Brussels. That is why I would also like to give my colleagues in the government who are responsible for institutional reform our insights and proposals. Madam President, your third question was about the Supreme Court of Justice. In its special powers of investigation, the Supreme Court of Justice is obliged to respect the independence of the members of the judiciary. Although this may relate to one or more lectures, this type of investigation is limited to the functioning of the judicial order, with the aim of improving it. It may not concern the content of judgments. We therefore do not consider such a request to be consistent with Article 259a, at the 16th of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u23	Minister, that is a whole sandwich for someone who is not a specialist in justice, like me. Sorry I'm a little focused on road safety, colleagues. That is my starting point. Minister, I welcome the fact that you are examining in depth the proposals of the King's Attorney of Halle-Vilvoorde. I look forward to the outcome of that. The language rights of French speakers and foreign speakers must be respected, but in my view a defined driving disability is always an urgent matter. It's about the safety of all of us. That's my concern. I believe that security can never be put at risk, just because someone wants to be tried in another court, while there is an sworn interpreter who can translate justice perfectly that allows the person concerned to express himself in his own language. I hope that this problem can be resolved. I know that this is a Community sensitive issue, but road safety is an absolute priority for me. I take it that's the same with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u24	Minister, I am very pleased that you have had several discussions with the prosecutor and that you are aware of the problem. You refer to Article 157a of the Constitution to adapt language law in court cases by a two-thirds majority. I told you a year and a half ago that you will certainly receive our support for this. I am convinced that the N-VA will also provide its support. Come on, jump on board as well. It is therefore up to you to invite your colleagues to do further work on this so that it can be dealt with quickly. That is why I have tabled a motion of recommendation. I'm asking the Attorney General to hear about the problem. You have responded to that request. As far as language law is concerned in court proceedings, you will certainly get the majority you need.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u25	Minister, I also welcome Mr Vandenbroucke's plea. It's a good thing you're having conversations with the King's Attorney. You refer to Article 157a of the Constitution. In your opinion, the Constitution needs to be amended, as the language law is enshrined in it. Your colleagues in Institutional Reforms are competent. However, perhaps we need to take a step further and ensure that the full competence of justice is in one hand and that we are finally going to a Flemish justice system. Then there is no need to be mortified by the language law and we have done a homogeneous package and an efficiency exercise so that the course of justice in Halle-Vilvoorde and everywhere in Flanders can be smoother.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u26	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Katleen Bury and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - having regard to the government agreement in which the government commits itself to the reform of the institutions, the forthcoming legislature shall make an important contribution (to) to the improvement of the efficiency and deepening of the democratic structures of the State, and shall guide the pursuit of homogeneous powers and efficiency; - having regard to the emergency call of the King's Attorney of the Halle-Vilvoorde District Court on the structural unworkability of the way in which Halle-Vilvoorde law is to be spoken in the jurisdiction of the court; - having regard to the fact that, because of the Halle-Vilvoorde parquet, this distress call is not being sent into the world for the first time, but it is a persistent phenomenon which has not yet been remediated; - having regard to the plea of the King's Attorney to amend language law in court proceedings; - whereas in practice subpoenaing the "language shopping" means, for example, that drivers who pose a risk to road safety can continue to drive around for longer periods of time; asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea - to hear the prosecutor of the court of Halle-Vilvoorde about this problem; - to adapt Article 23 of the language law in court cases in order to achieve a monolingualism of justice throughout Flanders (excluding Brussels) where it is the territorial jurisdiction of the court to determine the language of the consultation; - take the necessary steps for the further division of the judicial district of Brussels by making the jurisdiction of Halle-Vilvoorde a fully-fledged Dutch-speaking judicial district.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Katleen Bury and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - in view of the government agreement in which the government undertakes, with regard to institutional reform, to make an important contribution during the next legislature (...) to increasing the efficiency and deepening of the democratic principles of state structures, on the understanding that the search for homogeneity of powers and effectiveness is a guiding element in this respect; - having regard to the appeal for the assistance of the Prosecutor of the King of the Prosecutor's Office in Hal-Vilvorde concerning the structural impracticability of the manner in which justice is to be done in the jurisdiction of Hal-Vilvorde; - Whereas this call for assistance from the Hal-Vilvorde Public Prosecutor's Office is not the first, but is a persistent phenomenon which has not yet been addressed; - with regard to the case of the King's Prosecutor in favour of adapting legislation on the use of languages in judicial matters; Whereas language shopping by defendants implies in practice that drivers who constitute a danger to road safety may continue to operate longer, for example; asks the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea - to hear the Prosecutor of the King of the Prosecutor's Office in Hal-Vilvorde on this issue; - to adapt Article 23 of the legislation on the use of languages in judicial matters in order to ensure the uniformness of proceedings throughout the territory of Flanders (with the exception of Brussels), on the understanding that it is the territorial jurisdiction of the judge who determines the language of the proceedings; - to take the necessary steps towards the further division of the judicial district of Brussels by making Hal-Vilvorde a full Dutch-speaking judicial district." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u27	Minister, the corona crisis also has severe financial consequences for many citizens. Energy prices are booming, our shopping cart is getting more expensive, diesel and petrol prices are rising sky high. Many families are getting a lot harder financially, even those who have never had payment problems before. In order to avoid drama, the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs has put forward a remarkable proposal, a plea for the creation of a legal framework to top up the friendly recovery costs. The NKGB has proposed some measures to better protect people and to avoid accumulations of debts, and thus possible tragedies. This calls for better consumer protection. The bailiffs ask you to work on a legal ceiling of the amicable recovery costs. The NKGB asks to limit the proliferation of increases that a creditor may request. For example, it is proposed to set a percentage of the recovery costs. In this way, it can be avoided that an unpaid small amount would accumulate to a significant amount of debt within a short period of time. The NKGB also wants a legal framework for the communication platform to be created. This is a very interesting initiative of cooperation with the OCMW, which brings together all the debts incurred by the person or persons in question. At present, such a pilot project is running in Antwerp with positive results. With that communication platform, people in debt get some breathing space, as the bailiffs suspend execution for up to three months, so that the OMCW can draw up an overview of the total debt. This cooperation will ensure that further costs and procedures are avoided and that the person concerned is given the opportunity to become debt-free. Minister, what is your position on this matter? Are you prepared to create a legal framework to top up the friendly recovery costs? If so, what initiatives have you already taken or will you take? Are you prepared to take initiatives to create a legal framework for the establishment of a communication platform, similar to the successful pilot project CPC in Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u28	Mrs Dillen, you know that this problem does not leave insensitive. I refer to my policy paper in which I indicated that, in the context of the fight against over-indebtedness, we are working on measures to reduce the costs of judicial debt recovery. However, I would like to point out that the recovery activities of bailiffs should be divided into two categories. There are judicial requisitions and friendly requisitions. The rates of judicial recovery are fixed by royal order, as bailiffs then act in the context of their function as public prosecutor. We are currently discussing with the bailiffs with a view to modernising the current system of tariffs and, where possible, reducing the cost of judicial recovery. On the other hand, when the bailiff makes a friendly recovery, he or she does not act as part of a legal monopoly but as part of a competitive commercial activity comparable to that of collection agencies. In that context, a court bailiff shall determine his or her remuneration. A court bailiff charged with friendly recovery, like any other person who carries out an activity of recovery of friendly debt recovery, may not, under current legislation, claim compensation from the consumer other than that agreed in the contract. In principle, therefore, the cost to the bailiff for the purpose of a friendly recovery of a debt should not be borne by a debtor-consumer. As far as the cost of compensation and interest relating to such friendly claims is concerned, I must refer you to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for this. The National Chamber of Court Bailiffs has proposed to me the CPC platform as a pilot project. We have taken note of this with great interest. It is one of the elements taken into account in the review for the reform of judicial debt recovery and the fight against over-indebtedness. At present, a number of slopes, including these, are being analysed further in order to be able to propose a package of measures that will ensure that financially weaker people will be better protected against rising court and execution costs. That is what we want to achieve this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u29	Minister, of course I know the difference between judicial recovery and friendly recovery. The recent plea of the bailiffs is specifically about friendly recovery. Often they are bound by the underlying agreement. There often the shoe pinches, because sometimes exorbitant increases, interest rates, damages and so on are claimed. This makes it particularly difficult for a debtor who cannot pay his accounts. A small debt of 100 euros can easily reach 400 or 500 euros. This must be avoided as a matter of urgency. A similar phenomenon can be seen with the collection of utilities, where this can also be examined. In reply to my question on the communication platform, I am pleased to hear that you will take this into account in the reform. You have said that this will happen by the end of the year, so I assume that these texts will be submitted to us before the summer recess if we want to achieve this before the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u30	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Marijke Dillen and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice and the North Sea, - whereas the corona crisis has a financial impact on many citizens: increasing energy prices, increasing the cost of the shopping cart, rising diesel and petrol prices...; - whereas the National Court of Justice of the European Communities (NKGB) pleads for the creation of a legal framework to ensure that the costs of recovery are recovered in a friendly manner; - whereas the NKGB requests that the proliferation of increases that a creditor may request and proposes to set a percentage of recovery costs be reduced; - whereas a plea is also made to create a legal framework for the communication platform (CPC), which is the pilot project which was launched in Antwerp with a cooperation between the bailiffs and the OCMW, whereby the debt can be suspended for a maximum of three months in order to give the OCMW the opportunity to draw up an overview of all debts and to draw up a settlement arrangement; asks the government - take the necessary initiatives to create a legal framework to top up the friendly recovery costs; - take the necessary initiatives to create a legal framework for the establishment of a communication platform by analogy with the pilot project in Antwerp, involving cooperation between the bailiffs and the local OCMW's." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l.o.interpellation de Mme Marijke Dillen and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and the North Sea, - Considering that the crisis of the coronavirus has serious consequences for many of our citizens: energy prices are exploding, the price of the shopping cart is constantly rising, diesel and gasoline prices are reaching peaks,...; - Considering that the National Chamber of Judicial Officers (CNHJ) advocates the creation of a legal framework with a view to capping the costs of amicable recovery; - Whereas the CNHJ calls for an end to the proliferation of increases which a creditor may claim and proposes to fix a percentage of recovery costs; - Whereas it is also called for the creation of a legal framework for the communication platform (CPC), following the example of the pilot project deployed in Antwerp involving cooperation between the judicial officers and the CPAS, under which the liability of debts may be suspended for up to three months in order to enable the CPAS to draw up an overview of all debts and to draw up a repayment plan; asks the government - take the necessary steps to create a legal framework to cap the costs of amicable recovery; - take the necessary steps towards the creation of a legal framework for the establishment of a communication platform by analogy with the pilot project conducted in Antwerp, where cooperation is deployed between the judicial officers and the local CPAS." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Katja Gabriels. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Katja Gabriëls. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u31	Mr Gabriels, who apparently is a psychic and assumes that a motion will also be tabled at the next interplay, has already said that I do not intend to do so. Mr Minister, I come now to my question. On February 4, 2021, Galip Kurum, one of the assassins of Agent Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen, was allowed to leave Ittre prison for 36 hours due to a procedural error. In December 2021, Kurum's request for early release was still rejected by the Criminal Court, but that did not prevent him from also applying for penitentiary leave from the prison director. Penitentiary leave was initially given a positive opinion by the local director of the Ittre prison, after which the central administration would have reversed the decision. Since Kurum was unable to live with the decision, he decided to go to the President of the Court of First Instance on the grounds that the refusal of the central administration was outside the legal period of 14 days and was therefore invalid. Kurum argued that Saturday would also be a working day. Mr Minister, to the great amazement and anger of almost all the actors in the justice system and the police unions, you will understand - the President of the Court of Justice followed Kurum's argument. Minister, the police unions are right to react furiously and want you to intervene. They clearly state that I fully support them in saying that what is happening now is inadmissible misconduct on the part of the judiciary. First of all, when did you become aware of the facts? What's your opinion on that? What have you done in the media since the announcement of Kurum's release? I do insist that this is a matter of temporary release. Secondly, are there any other cases in which the court considers Saturday a working day by order? Has that also led to the release of criminals, whether or not they are serious? Thirdly, will there be an appeal against the decision of the President of the Court of First Instance? Fourthly, will you inform the main prison authorities that, taking into account the content of that decision, they must take their decisions on whether or not to grant prison leave in good time in order to avoid similar situations? How will you prevent such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u32	My question is in line with Mrs Dillen's. I think we should at least call the facts Kafkaian. It is all the more painful that this is happening in such a sensitive file as the file on the murder of Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen. The person concerned had already requested an early release, but it was rejected. His question for penitentiary leave was positively advised, as it turns out, although the central administration then reversed the decision. In an action for interim relief, he was right for a very bizarre reason. As a result, the person concerned was allowed to leave prison for 36 hours on 4 February, without the victim's family being aware of it. The judge in the interim proceedings had a very strange reasoning and ruled that the central administration was too late. According to him, this would not have respected the fourteen-day period in which he also considered a Saturday as a working day. We often talk about work deals and flexibility, and in the case of the Justice Department there is often work on Saturdays, but it is very special if one considers a Saturday as a working day when the deadlines are set. If this interpretation is maintained, everyone will have to re-examine their calculations of deadlines. I understand that your cabinet regrets what has happened and that the case is brought before the court of appeal, but the decision has been taken in the meantime. Is the definition of a working day not sufficiently clearly defined in the context of such proceedings or has the judge in the interim proceedings made an error of interpretation? It would be interesting to examine the legal bases and whether, in the event of an interpretation error or procedural error, penalty leave may be granted. Maybe there's still room for change here? Is it not interesting to fill the gaps in procedures or legislation through legislative work and to eliminate the uncertainties? Were the relatives, friends and colleagues of Kitty Van Nieuwenhuyse informed of the penitentiary leave in good time or were they required to hear it through the press? Finally, since you announce that you are going to bring the case before the court of appeal, I assume that you wish to reverse the precedent value of the decision and obtain another decision? Or do you have other intentions by appealing? Leave is already over, of course, and nothing can be changed about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u33	We were informed the day itself of the decision. An appeal was brought, but the action does not affect the enforceability of the decision which, by its nature, is enforceable in stock. By finding that the negative decision of the Directorate for Detention Management had not been taken in good time after a positive opinion of the Director, the penalty leave under Article 10 (4) of the External Law Act had to be regarded as granted, under the conditions imposed by the Director. In appeal we hope to correct the unexpected interpretation of the notion working day. The President of the Court of First Instance examined in his decision only a plea, in particular the non-timeliness of the decision to refuse, and stated that, in the absence of a definition in the law and explanations in the preparatory works, the concept of a working day must be understood "in its usual meaning', in accordance with the settled caselaw of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State. In that common sense, according to the Court of First Instance and referring several judgments of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State, a working day shall cover all days of the week with the exception of Sundays and public holidays. A Saturday would therefore, except in the case of a holiday, be considered a working day. That statement, as I said, came unexpectedly. The caselaw so far on the time limit follows the interpretation of the Belgian State, in particular that the notion of working day is to be regarded as a day on which the administration, in particular the determining authority, works, in contrast to a day off. In that case-law, it was not expressly a question of whether a Saturday was a working day, but also of regular holidays, such as 2 November, bridge days and the period between Christmas and New Year, which were therefore not considered as a working day. In those decisions it was implicitly confirmed that a Saturday was not a working day, because Saturday was not counted in the term. That different caselaw was, of course, invoked, but the President of the Court of First Instance did not mention it. The professional certificate referred to this again and we hope that the court of appeal will follow it. This includes a judgment of the Liège Court of Appeal of 3 February 2017 and a decision of the President of the Luxembourg Court of First Instance of the Marche-en-Famenne section of 8 February 2018. I have given the order to take the necessary measures to avoid such an event in the future. It also examines whether an amendment to the law is necessary to clarify the time limit. We are not aware of any other matter at the moment. With regard to survivors, I refer to Article 10 (2) of the Act on External Legal Status, which provides that the victim must be informed as soon as possible, in any case within 24 hours, of the granting of the first penitentiary leave by the most rapid written means possible. The procedures were correctly applied. The competent services, victim reception services and aide aux victimes were informed in good time of the penitentiary leave so that they could inform the survivors and the victims. The lawyer was also informed. All this does not change the fact that I understand the misunderstanding of the police unions. Or what thanks from the parents and family of Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen? I regret this very unfortunate incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u34	So, Minister, there has been an appeal. What's the status? When can we expect a verdict? Of course, you share the incomprehension of the police union and the family of the next of kin. You refer to Article 10 of the external legal status law and say that the survivors must be informed as soon as possible. However, this does not apply to the dossier in question. There's been a big mistake. This cannot be repeated, and I hope that there will be a very clear appeal. Finally, given the delicate nature of the dossier, I hope that apologies have been made from the Justice Department to the relatives of Mrs Kitty Van Nieuwenhuysen. It is, after all, a very heavy jaw blow for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u35	Minister, I look forward to hearing the outcome of the appeal. I hope that no precedent can be derived from the decision. In any case, it will be very useful to make it no longer dependent on justice, but to build security into our current procedures and legislation. That is a task for us, and we can do something about it. We have to do that. It is obvious that we are looking at it with surprise, but we must also learn lessons from it. A human error will always be possible, but we must close the loopholes as much as possible. If there is any discussion, we simply write in the law what a working day is and what is not. Then people won't be able to go through this kind of shit anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55025202C and 55025203C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u37	Minister, we have heard in the media that you are coming up with a digital transformation plan for Justice. This plan should improve working processes and information management and make it more flexible. In the past, several of your predecessors have already taken initiatives in this direction, unfortunately without much result, but with the use of considerable resources. The question is whether your objectives will succeed this time. Apparently, this is a series of assignments to support the Digital Transformation Office within Justice. These include governance, architecture, audit and quality control. A budget of approximately EUR 69 million is earmarked for this purpose. This project should meet the concrete needs of the FPS Justice, but computerisation or digitisation at Justice is a particularly sensitive project. In the past, a lot has gone wrong that unfortunately involved a heavy financial price tag. The list of lost projects among former Justice Ministers is truly hallucinating. Of course, you're not responsible for that. The fact that you are redeploying projects for a database of judgments and judgments and for a digital transformation today indicates that after previous projects, such as Phenix, Justice is not much further away. So the question is how you're going to do better this time. 1. Can the Minister provide more detailed and concrete information on the announced transformation plan for Justice? The plan contains two large shutters. How is this divided up? Is a concrete roadmap for implementation foreseen? What specific timing has been set? 2. This project should meet the concrete needs of the FPS Justice in 2022. Can the Minister tell me in detail what specific needs that project will provide specifically and finally with a response to? Can you guarantee that a database of judgments and judgments will finally be available? What is the concrete timing of this? 3. The involvement of all the different services within the Justice Department is important. What services were involved? Can the Minister tell me on the basis of what opinions that transformation plan was drawn up? Which actors with concrete knowledge of the field were involved, so that this project can meet the specific needs of the FPS Justice? 4. Will all the courts and courts, and this without distinction, finally be able to join? Will there be a guarantee that, within a very short period of time, all actors in general and lawyers in particular will finally have the opportunity to submit all documents digitally for all legal bodies? Minister, I do not know if you are aware of this, but that is still not the case today. Will all judicial decisions and other official judicial documents be officially delivered and processed? Is there going to be a crossroads bank where all data on court cases are collected electronically and linked together? Does this plan finally make it possible for files in general, and files in criminal matters in particular to be fully digitally consulted by lawyers from their offices, from the start of the file? You know this is one of my stickhorses. Will there be any guarantees that lawyers will be able to make digital submissions and documents in all files and in any court? For the record, Minister, these are all promises made by several of your predecessors, but unfortunately they have not yet been implemented today. 5. As far as the proposed budget is concerned, I would like a little more detailed explanation. 6. Finally, computerisation and digitisation is a particularly sensitive project for the Justice Department. Much has gone wrong in the past. The fact that projects are being re-launched today, for the databases and for the digital transformation, indicates that we are not much further away after the start of Phenix. Can you give firm assurances this time that the initiatives announced will be successful and that the funds released for this purpose will not be used again in a senseless manner? Can you give an overview of the projects launched over the last ten years in the field of digitalisation and what resources have been made available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u38	You are referring to a message in the media. It is a communication that a public tender is being launched with the aim of establishing a contractual framework to support digitalisation in the Justice Department. We were forced to do this because of the situation that has arisen within the various administrations for the use of the existing federal framework contracts for IT services and projects referring to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. As a result, we are obliged to issue a new public contract in which we focus on the aspects of governance, architecture, audit and quality control in order to achieve and continue to support the digitisation of Justice in the coming years. The digital transformation of Justice is, of course, a central part of the faster justice section. For a more detailed discussion, please refer to our policy paper. Five steps were made clear: the modern material, the digital file, the linking of all databases, Just-on-web as the digital gateway to Justice and a plea for an intelligent, data-driven Justice. In addition to the interdepartmental commission in the policy, we have received funding for this from the European Recovery and Resilience Facility. That plan states that we must achieve five milestones. The first milestone is the development of a program management structures digital transformation office, i.e. the digital cockpit, by the end of 2021 at the latest. This was achieved by the Ministerial Decision of 16 December 2021. The second milestone is to provide a basic portal by 2022 at the latest. Just-on-web has already been realized. The portal has been online for several months. We are gradually adding new services. The third milestone is the internal centralisation of legal decisions by 2023, so that all judgments and judgments are centrally available for pseudonymisation. The fourth milestone that we need to achieve for Europe is a database to collect real-time data on the progress of judicial proceedings that should be operational by 2024, so that statistical data on the different judicial procedures can be more data-driven. The fifth milestone is a new file management system of at least seven entities of the judiciary by 2025, so that the highly outdated file management systems can be replaced by the most modern applications. Those entities are now determined, in consultation with the judicial order. The plan contains, contrary to what you indicate in your question, much more than two large parts. The two parts you are referring to in that article are the two lots that are provided for in the public procurement procedure. Through the first plot we wish to be able to recruit profiles with knowledge of ICT governance, ICT architecture, program, project, change and communication management. The second parcel should enable the judiciary to attract audit and risk management support. With regard to your second question, the needs of justice are very high due to a historical lack of people, structural underfunding and failed transformation projects. The causes of these failures are very diverse. There are different views on this, but everyone agrees that the previous failures have been largely due to a lack of internal governance, including poor programme management and the absence of the necessary attention to change management and communication. Justice also needs an overarching vision of its work processes, the data it manages and the security needed to do so. That is why we provide support for the necessary architectural profiles. The same Council of Ministers also approved the FPS Justice to launch a public invitation to tender with a view to developing and managing a database for judgments and judgments. It is useful to give a full picture of the progress of the procurement procedure. We have opted for a competition procedure with negotiation. We're gonna do that in two stages. I think I have already said something about that in an earlier answer. I will not repeat that answer here. The tender for the database has therefore been launched. Regarding your third question, the digital transformation is a project for and by Justice as a whole. The strategic direction of digitalisation is in the hands of a steering committee, in which the Presidents of the College of Courts and Courts, the Public Prosecutor, the entity of the Supreme Court or their delegates sit with the Chairman of the FPS Justice and representatives of my policy cell. The operational management is in the hands of the Digital Transformation Office. This is a digital cockpit, in which executives of the staff, ICT, judges, parquet magistrates, clerks and prosecutors are appointed full-time or part-time. They are assisted in this by various specialised programme and project leaders. The digital transformation plan was drawn up on the basis of the lectures' strategic notes. In the strategic note of the College of Courts and Courts, the importance of a new file management system for the courts and courts was established on the basis of the need analysis for JustNew, carried out at the initiative of the College. In the Strategic Vision note, the Public Prosecutor's College also called for a new file management system, the implementation of centralised access management and an overarching document management system with an electronic signature adapted for the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, from November 2020 onwards, there was a regular weekly consultation with all ICT representatives from the different entities, on which the different sub-projects were discussed and priorities identified. As for your fourth question, we will soon rename the e-Deposit application to JustDeposit because all our products will start with Just. This application is being modernised and by the end of this year all digital deposits must be able to be carried out across all courts and courts and thus within the criminal courts, which is not the case now. We will no longer distinguish between the type of deposit so that all possible documents can be submitted digitally. In criminal matters, scanned criminal files will indeed be able to be consulted digitally via Just-on-web, i.e. remotely. We will start with some pilot sites at the end of April and we will systematically expand this year. In parallel, pilot projects are also being launched with police forces to realise the digital influx of minutes. This required a digital signature from the police forces, but since this summer it has had a full legal framework. The first technical tests have been successfully completed. Here too, we are moving gradually towards this fundamental change in police-Justice cooperation. In addition, an integration project was launched at the end of January with the latest technologies to establish a link between the various databases and file management systems of the Justice Department. With regard to your fifth question, the amount quoted concerns the total maximum value of the public contract. That contract is estimated at EUR 57 million, excluding VAT. Lot 1 has a maximum amount of 55 million euros, lot 2 audit and risk management is a maximum of 14 million euros. These are amounts including VAT. For both lots, this is a maximum estimate, taking into account also certain margins and the needs of other users, such as the colleges, the NICC, the IGA, the State's Security and the Supreme Court of Justice. As a contracting authority, we are not obliged to use the full value of the contract effectively. As far as your sixth question is concerned, in order to maximise the chances of success, we are taking various measures. Firstly, of course we take into account the lessons learned from previous initiatives. We provide for exchanges with other institutions and firms which have already completed such a contract. We involve all key stakeholders from the start and seek assistance from external specialists. The digital transformation office, the digital cockpit was created to guide the entire journey. That was a condition for Europe to achieve better follow-up. Unlike Phenix, this time there is also attention to the non-IT aspects of the projects such as change management and training. As for your last question, there are dozens of ICT projects on digitalisation of Justice every year, some of which are small in design and others very large. To give an overview over a period of 10 years, including the resources for this, is not possible given the short period. I can recommend an interesting book. It is in French, I apologize for that. It was written by a renowned lawyer, who is also an ICT expert at the same time. It's called "Digitalisation de la justice belge." La relance?'. This gives a very interesting overview of what has happened and above all what has gone wrong over the past 20 to 25 years. That book collects all publicly available information about the digitisation of Justice, in the hope that it will give an overview of the complex situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply, which I will certainly read very carefully again with particular interest. We will, of course, have the opportunity in this committee to come back to this very specifically. I'm definitely gonna read the book too. I hope it is available here in Parliament's library. The fact that it is in French is not a problem in itself. I'll read it with great interest to get more information. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55025314C was withdrawn because he had already received an answer by means of a written question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u41	Madam President, Minister, it is said that the EMB, the Muslim executive, completed its reorganisation model on 4 February 2022 and would be presented to you. The number of members of the General Assembly, the Management Board and the leaders of the EMB has been revised and 3 entities have been created within the EMB. The implementation of this would enter into force before the Ramadan in April of this year. I noticed that they would no longer be dependent on your subsidies, but that they would get their financial contributions from the mosques. They would no longer depend on politics. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm all this? How do you see the further progress in the process with the EMB? What will happen to the CIB, the Coordination Council of the Islamic Institutions, which was involved in the renewal exercise? How do you feel about the executive continuing to organise according to the countries of origin? There will be a Moroccan and a Turkish entity and an additional entity for the others. That should not surprise us, given the role of the Turkish and Moroccan embassies in this renewal operation. These people have been here for two or three generations now. Why do they keep turning back on their ethnicity, on their country of origin? Will this new model reduce or perpetuate the influence of Turkey and Morocco on the EMB? In the meantime, can you also provide us with the required annual accounts for 2020, which were audited by your administration in October 2021? In 2020, the EMB received EUR 647 000 in grants. How many grants did the EMB receive from the Justice Department in 2021? You said that the EUR 500 000 grant budget was frozen and would not be paid to the EMB before it was reformed, in accordance with your vision. Is that 500,000 euro still in your wallet, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u42	Madam President, Mr Metsu, I received the reorganisation model on 11 February. I am committed to the principle of freedom of religion. So I wanted to give every opportunity to the renewal announced by the EMB itself. In recent months, I have made it clear, also through two defaults, what we want, namely representativeness, professionalism and transparency. I have studied the document and I have identified many missed opportunities. Firstly, a minimum quota of two women per region, Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, is only a recommendation. This means a presence of, at best, six women out of a total of 50 members. This is not progress. Secondly, the proposal is based on ethnicity, the countries of origin. In this sense, the proposal is once again a missed opportunity. I believe in a structure in which ethnicity and origin do not play a central role. I believe that a representative body should be able to organise itself at federal level in a way that does not matter to the specific religious movement. I want to be able to talk to an institution that is mature enough to defend the interests of all Muslims in our country, regardless of their differences. This is also possible with the other services of worship. Thirdly, the CIB is an internal body of the Islamic worship service with which the minister does not maintain contacts. I have already said in the past that the CIB is a vehicle of certain foreign powers. It is impossible for this council to be involved in a serious innovation, let alone as an interlocutor for the Belgian authorities. Fourthly, there is too much departure from a mosque logic. Only representatives of the mosques are welcome in the EMB, no experts or co-opters. The system of co-optation existed, but now it is proposed to abolish it. Fifth, there is funding. I have just as many questions about the explanation of the funding. Some people in the media say that they would become completely financially independent, but I have already received a grant application for the first three months of this year. In principle, this car financing could even be a good thing. The less government funding, the stricter the separation between mosque and state. However, how many mosques will be willing to contribute to an organ that hardly represents them? Will it be the Belgian mosques who contribute? The document also mentions other sources of funding, without going into any further detail. So I see little of the expected innovation and professionalisation in this. By the way, the letter writers are not talking about renewal, but about reconstitution. Nor can I draw a specific timeline from the letter that was sent to me on Friday. When I see that it took two years to compile the document, I wonder how the body will succeed in achieving the so-called reconstitution by April 2022. With regard to your questions two and eight, I regret the fact that the Muslim community has been led on for months by its so-called representative body. As you know, I have already failed the EMB twice. I am continuing this legal procedure and in the meantime I am not releasing the subsidy foreseen for 2022. As far as your sixth question is concerned, I will ask the administration to do what is necessary. As far as your seventh question is concerned, a total grant of EUR 839 000 was granted in 2021, of which just over 60% of the amount was paid, in particular EUR 530 100.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u43	Minister, as far as I am concerned, you gave the perfect answer. I am entirely in line and thank you sincerely for taking the dossier to heart. We certainly support you in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u44	"Mr Minister, this Saturday unacceptable events took place in the Midi train station in Brussels. Indeed, a person ended the fire at a homeless person who was sleeping at the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u45	Thank you for your answers to these questions."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u46	Dear colleague, you know that a judicial investigation is under way. So I can't give you much information, but I can confirm that the inmate was incarcerated at the Brussels prison, on the Saint-Gilles site, and was then transferred during his detention to the Saint-Hubert prison, where he must serve two sentences, a nine-month sentence and a two-year sentence. With regard to your second question, the individual in question was in the legal condition for his release. He was therefore released from Saint-Hubert prison on provisional release with an order to leave the territory issued by the Office des Etrangers. With regard to your third question, whenever detainees have a problem and ask for help while in detention, an answer is provided by the psychosocial service and the care providers. For obvious reasons, no probation plan is developed in Belgium for persons who do not have a right of residence because they are ordered to leave the territory. Consequently, there are also no preliminary measures taken in the context of social reintegration through leave and prison leave. It is therefore very difficult to guide or influence their behaviour after their release except that they must leave the territory within the time limit imposed by the Foreigners' Office. As you know, with my colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration, we are making every effort to ensure that the removal from the territory takes place before the departure from prison. As I mentioned, 2021 has shown good results in this area. I am working very actively with my colleague in charge of Asylum and Migration to make this situation even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u48	Minister, on Wednesday, December 22, 2021, your project to create a national road safety prosecutor's office was approved in the House. We can only welcome such a creation which, in this case, will make the use of our roads safer. However, it is up to me from the actors in the field that the composition of this prosecutor's office raises questions. In fact, it would appear that no magistrate has been provided for in the composition of the new Public Prosecutor's Office to justify the knowledge of the German language. Thus, only one administrative staff member would justify such knowledge. Some actors feel that this is insufficient. Since this prosecutor's office is national in nature, he will therefore have in his powers the roads located in the German-speaking territory. It would be appropriate, therefore, for a judge to be on the list to justify such knowledge. Minister, do you confirm this information? What are the reasons for this absence? Would it not be appropriate to provide for a judge who has such knowledge?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u49	Mr Goffin, the law does not specifically provide for the presence of a judge who has the knowledge of the German language in the office of the road safety prosecutor. Although this is not mandatory, it remains a possibility. Your second question remains relevant. Of course, it is important that the public prosecutor's office be able to handle the cases in German and that it do so properly. To put your question in the right order, let me give some figures to assess what is being discussed. When examining the immediate collection figures for 2020, 16,789 proposals for immediate collection were sent for infringements committed in the Eupen district (0.38% of the immediate collection proposals in Belgium). Of these, 15,640 were paid and 1,149 were not paid. As part of the immediate unpaid collection files, the Eupen Prosecutor's Office proposed 978 transactions in 2020: 251 transactions were paid and the balance of transactions payable is therefore 727 cases for which a payment order was sent. There were 12 appeals against these payment orders in one year, which corresponds to the national average. I draw your attention to the fact that, in cases initiated for immediate perception, the bulk of the work is administrative. The aim is to respond to the challenges raised against proposals for immediate perception and transaction. The law provides that the annual staff plan for the secretariat of the road safety prosecutor includes at least one member of his staff who justifies knowledge of the German language. The final decision on a challenge must be taken by a person who has knowledge of the German language in the case of a case in the Eupen district. In the absence of a judge who has a knowledge of the German language in the road safety department, two options may be considered. First, a magistrate in Eupen could take decisions in the files prepared by members of the Road Safety Prosecutor's Office who attest to a knowledge of the German language. This is possible, insofar as the law provides for concurrent jurisdiction between the prosecutor's office and the prosecutor's office. The disadvantage is that Eupen's would benefit only partially from the reduction in the workload resulting from the creation of the new Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly, as I said at the committee meeting on 6 October, in response to a question from Mrs Jadin, the idea of recruiting a bilingual lawyer in the German language is perfectly complementary to the work to be done by the German-speaking employee. A German-speaking lawyer is easier to find than a magistrate, while his or her powers are more extensive than those of an administrative assistant. The lawyer may institute a public action and, in accordance with Article 62(2), deal directly with the cases in the German language. The use of a translator is a less efficient and more expensive solution, the advantage of a lawyer being that he or she can intervene directly in the files. The use of translators, like the practice in force at the Court of Cassation or the Court of Enforcement of Penalties, would be necessary only pending the recruitment of the German-speaking staff of the new Public Prosecutor's Office. In conclusion, the recruitment of lawyers would promote rapid, efficient and uniform management of cases in the German language, directly within the National Road Traffic Prosecutor's Office. During the preparation of the organization chart of the new prosecutor's office, we have already incorporated your remarks and have planned German-speaking profiles in our organic table, in order to qualitatively manage the files in German.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u50	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. I know you are attentive to the problem of the German-speaking region of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u51	Minister, in March 2021 I asked you a question about the list of mandates for the magistrate. The government agreement of the Di Rupo government stated that they wanted to work on a register of mandates for the magistracy. At the end of that legislature, your predecessor, Minister Turtelboom, said that she had no plans to do so. Until today, no system of publication has been put in place. However, in 2017, the Supreme Court of Justice made a recommendation to the courts of first instance to establish a register for the secondary functions of magistrates. That would have happened in the meantime, but the Supreme Court would still have no idea of the secondary functions that are being held. Those registers aren't public either. Your reply in 2021 showed a great deal of understanding that magistrates have secondary functions. Magistrates often sit on committees set up by the legislator, in the broad sense, and their secondary functions can provide additional expertise for the court and contribute to making the Magistrate's job more attractive. On the other hand, you indicated that you did not have an overview of the entire mandates. Since the FPS Justice is not always involved in the creation or dissolution of all these committees and councils and since this is done on a frequent basis, there is no complete comprehensive overview to date. In 2019, however, a list was created of the then known possibilities of secondary functions for magistrates. The idea of a mandate list for magistrates recently came back to the fore. Minister, what is your position and the government's position on the mandate list for magistrates? What initiatives will you take to get an overview? Will that survey be published afterwards? In what timing do you consider that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u52	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as such, this subject has not yet been discussed within the entire government, but I am in favour of full transparency. If mandates of the executive and legislative authorities should be made public, this should also apply to the judiciary. One of the pillars of our rule of law is the independence of the judiciary. It is to guarantee that independence that there are rules about what a judge is allowed to do and what he or she is not allowed to do, both in function and in his or her private life. Justice must not only be done, but must also be seen to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u53	The appearance of partiality must also be avoided. That is why there are already very strict rules today. Judges must not accept paid government posts, they must not trade, they must not be elected and their deontology must ensure that their independence and impartiality are safeguarded. In this respect, transparency about the mandates of judges seems to me to be an additional guarantee of that independence. As far as your second question is concerned, the legislative proposal will follow its path. Work has begun and we will contribute constructively to the legal process. As far as your last question is concerned, we will wait for the legislative proposal to be dealt with. If that bill leads to a law, the registration publication should be able to be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u55	Mrs Rohonyi would like to ask her questions. To postpone 55025323C, 5502532C and 55025324C because it is prevented on another committee. We have not heard from Mrs Marghem, so her question No. 55025352C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u56	Madam President, Minister, this question again deals with the problem of the German language, a problem which this time concerns the translation of federal legislation into the German language. Do you confirm the problem of both the overload of the SCTA and the use of independent translators to cope with the overload of translation of legislative texts into German? Is it correct that there are currently difficulties in finding independent translators willing to perform this task because of the unattractive remuneration conditions, it seems? What concrete measures do you intend to put in place to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Central German Translation Service (SCTA) within the competence of my colleague, Minister of the Interior, I invite you to address your questions to him in order to obtain all the necessary information. However, for your information, I would like to add that there is an indeterminate tariff agreement between the Chair of the FPS Justice Steering Committee and the TBSA, whereby a list of priority royal and departmental orders is forwarded to the TBSA for translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u58	Minister, I will follow your advice and turn to your colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-16-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic703x.u59	We can finish our committee meeting for today. Thank you and see you tomorrow.
