ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u1	Questions Nos. 55029219C, 55029260C, 55029261C and 55029262C by Ms. Daems and Nos. 55029299C, 55029330C, 55029331C and 55029391C by Mr. Senesael were deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u2	The questions raised by Mr Senesael and Mrs Daems are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u3	Mr President, Minister, on the night of 28 June 2022, the European Environment Council reached agreement on a number of aspects of the Fit for 55 package. Madam Minister, the post-communications have created quite a bit of confusion from the camp of the ecologists. I'll explain why immediately. Of course, you are not responsible for the communication of, for example, the European Member of Parliament, Sara Matthieu, on television. I will, however, put it literally what she has said. "If you want support for the energy transition, don't do it." What's she talking about? She talks about the carbon tax or CO2 tax on heating and fuel. She doesn't think that's a good idea. That is very strange, because I remember that a few weeks after your arrival you ended up somewhat in the eye of a media storm over that carbon tax. I know what you will say, namely that social justice must also be taken simultaneously. However, Mrs Matthieu was not satisfied either. She was also not very enthusiastic about the reduction of the Social Climate Fund budget. That's very strange. Otherwise, Mr President, I will not read my full question. After all, the Minister has that at his disposal. However, I will ask my questions. Madam Minister, can you explain the agreement reached at the Environment Council and the Belgian position? Is it true that the impact of the Social Climate Fund has been weakened in the light of the European Commission's initial proposal? Is it also true that, for example, Member States should no longer co-finance half of the funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u4	Madam Minister, an agreement was reached on European climate action last week. There have been quite a few proposals from Frans Timmermans' plan, and this barely a year after he proposed them. This illustrates the urgency of the dossier. This climate package must now be transposed into legislation. Can you give an overview of some important decisions? Such an agreement often requires a number of exceptions or transitional measures, especially in the final phase. The situation is not the same everywhere. I have the impression that this is not or hardly the case for our country. Does that have anything to do with our position in these negotiations? I have seen that we have abstained in at least three of the five dossiers. How did we arrive at that position? That's what I'd like to hear from you. Are we going to remain in the cold as far as exceptions or transitional measures are concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u5	No one disputes the need for climate transition measures. Climate security and energy security are needed. You're judging that balance in this package? With regard to urgency, to what extent do we not want too much at once, by launching one plan after another even before the existing action plans are knocked off and in progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to answer the first question concerning my colleague's statements. It is as minister that I answer, but as an environmentalist – so, not as minister – I can only acknowledge that questions deserve to be raised. However, in my capacity as minister of a seven-party government, I appreciate the stakes of the negotiations and different positions, as well as the presence of the 27 parties, and I can only welcome the conclusion of an agreement. Of course, as an environmentalist, I can tell you that we will never do enough. Before addressing the concrete issues, I would like to present you with a general reading of the decisions taken at this Council. That seems necessary to me if we want to understand the decisions taken by our country. On the night of Tuesday 28 on Wednesday 29 June, the Council took up its position on the climate dossier and the Fit for 55 package, in particular the Effort Sharing Regulation, the ETS, including ETS aviation, the extension to the maritime sector and its buildings and road transport, the Social Climate Fund, LULUCF and CO2 standards for persons and vans. This is an important step towards achieving the European target of reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and becoming climate neutral by 2050, as required by the European climate law. Hopefully, we will soon find agreement with the European Parliament so that we can provide clarity and investment security for our citizens and businesses. I would also point out that it is the Council's position that has been adopted, so that the trialogue can only begin. That's what we're talking about. Although the positions finally adopted by the Council adapt the Commission's initial proposals on various points, in the form of a number of temporary exceptions and postponements of the entry into force of certain measures, the general level of ambition has fortunately been preserved, which guarantees the achievement of the target of - 55%. It is a clear signal from the Council that the climate challenge remains at the centre of concerns. This is, to an important extent, part of the solution to the current energy crisis, rather than being a cause or an obstacle to the resolution of this crisis. I would also like to express my appreciation for the efforts of the technical experts from the administrations of the various authorities and of the diplomatic representatives. Over the past year, this historic climate package has been intensively worked on, and not without results. I would like to give some examples of things that have emerged from the negotiations: the study of the possibility of speeding up national phasing-out of combustion engines, the inclusion of smaller ships in the carbon pricing of EU ETS or the protection of innovative investments in the steel industry. All these points are included in the final compromise of the Environment Council. These are points for which Belgium has also worked. This shows that if we take a position together with the four governments, we can weigh at the European level. Environmental organisations have therefore assessed Belgium's efforts in transport and energy, including in the file on CO2 standards for vehicles and the ESA, as being among the best of all Member States in Europe. Unfortunately, Belgium finally had to abstain explicitly on three crucial issues, namely not only the European Emission Trading System (ETS) and the Social Climate Fund, but also the Effort Sharing Regulation (ESR), which allocates efforts among Member States. With such a position, we have, in fact, placed ourselves out of play and we have not been able to weigh on the negotiations in the last straight line on these issues. We have thus sided with a small minority of Member States. What has put us in this situation is the position adopted by the Flemish Region which has formally requested that Belgium abstain on these three dossiers, regardless of the developments resulting from the negotiations in the Council. The position of the Flemish Region was unconditional, which deprived us of any possibility of further pleading for concessions in our favour at the Environment Council, although the federal and the other two Regions could offer the French Presidency the prospect that the package would be approved. I do not, of course, deprive anyone of the right to defend his political interests, but at some point it is necessary to realize that the total absence of the will to compromise has the effect not only of getting Belgium out of the negotiations but also of putting its own interests out of play. I can only hope that the internal blockage on these three dossiers can be quickly lifted so that we can quickly regain our place and role in the trilogues with the European Parliament and thus make constructive progress on the European project on climate transition. Specifically with regard to your question about the ETS-BRT and the Social Climate Fund, as you know, I have always advocated that the climate transition should be a socially just transition. The Council has indeed chosen to introduce the new ETS, which is to give a price signal, a year later than initially envisaged. The introduction of the Social Climate Fund, which should mitigate the possible social impact of this price signal, is therefore also being postponed, which indeed reduces the volume to EUR 59 billion in the period up to 2032. In reality, however, this does not reduce the aid to compensate for the social impact, as the timing of the SCF continues to follow the timing of introducing the carbon price through the ETS BRT. So you can hardly talk about shortwings. Moreover, the SCF remains a very substantial fund, slightly smaller than the Cohesion Fund. In addition, our country has the opportunity to use all other revenues from the new ETS BRT also for families and SMEs. Within the federal government there is a consensus that this can be done with a climate bonus, for which I have worked, to achieve a progressive effect on the incomes of families. In the context of the debate on the Social Climate Fund, it is important to ensure that support through the Social Climate Fund for direct investment and measures effectively benefits the least favoured households. For my part, I will make every effort to ensure that this is at the centre of the social climate plan that we must submit to the European Commission in 2023 in order to be able to claim our share of this fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation, particularly in relation to the non-ETS sectors, enlargement and the link with the revenue for the social climate fund. I thought there was an agreement in the European Parliament that the system would be introduced first for the commercial sector and then for households?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u8	That is why I have referred to the fact that, in this case, each actor in the trialogue has adopted his position beforehand. Parliament has therefore adopted for itself the position that you have mentioned. This will be the position he will take in the trialogue. It has nothing to do with the position of our Council. That is Parliament's negotiating position.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u9	What happened is good. Europe has shown that it can work. The legislation needs to be put in place as soon as possible. We don't have much time left to make it to the 2030 level. We are seeing the consequences of global warming in many places today, including in Europe. In Greece there are currently very many forest fires. There was the glacier accident in Italy yesterday. All this has a clear link to global warming. You were clear about the negotiations. There were indeed three abstentions, including around the ETS Social Climate Fund. I think your analysis was very clear. That's why we're putting ourselves out of business. Belgium was sitting around the table to negotiate European climate action. We must all be aware of the consequences of the abstentions and the lack of ambition of the Flemish Government and the Flemish Minister for Climate which is holding us hostage. Our country is no longer being taken into account at the negotiating tables. Some countries have been granted exemptions or exemptions on, for example, the phasing out of fuel vehicles or allowances. Our country, however, has received nothing in this respect. I would therefore like Mrs Demir to explain this to the Flemish port industry and companies. She leaves her own businesses in the cold. So we shoot in our own foot, and I hope that everyone concerned realizes that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u10	Madam Minister, on 13 May you had a note approved in the Council of Ministers on the organisation of the long-announced conference on a socially just transition. This conference aims to link climate and environmental objectives with an extension of social achievements and to reduce socio-economic risks. The official start-up has now apparently moved to 2023, while there was first 2021 and then 2022. Apparently, a note has finally been approved. In your recent May 1 message, you also referred to the social partners, who called on you to express their desiderata and concerns. Could you give me a more detailed explanation of that note? To what extent are the Länder involved in this conference? Has this been discussed in the Consultative Committee or in other bodies? Unless I am mistaken, was it not the intention that the social partners should also play an important role in that national conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u11	Mr Ravyts, the note I submitted to the Council of Ministers, as the procedure requires, is intended to mandate me to start negotiations with the sub-groups in preparation for the Consultative Committee in autumn of this year, with a view to organising a national conference on a fair transition. In this sense, this note does not contain any substantive orientation. This démarche is intended to involve the sub-entities in the process of the national conference. I am therefore counting on good interaction and cooperation with my colleagues from the Regions and the Communities, because the subject is important. If we did not reach an agreement within the Conciliation Committee, the conference would only be organised at federal level in 2023. Let me touch on the State-General Justice Transition that I launched on 24 May 2022. Today there is no systematic and coherent dynamic around the theme. I would therefore like to make this preparatory work in preparation for the national conference. The States-General consists of four shutters to deliver results by spring of 2023. The High Committee on Righteous Transition, consisting of 22 scientists under the co-chairship of Professor Bea Cantillon of the UA and Marek Hudon of the ULB, gives me a scientific report. Agora, a citizen's participation, gives her perspective on a just transition. There will also be a forum to ask for memoirs from civil society. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development and other advisory bodies, such as the Central Council for Business, will publish the results of their interactions. The social partners and other stakeholders will thus play an important role in the preparation and process of the National Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation of that note. Indeed, this note does not provide any substantive orientation, but does outline the framework for the preparation of that national conference. As the Flemish Government ultimately has a very concrete and practical energy and climate plan and offers its constructive cooperation, I expect you to agree on this. That seems logical to me on this issue. We will undoubtedly talk about this again in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u13	We have had some bad news today about the Amazon forest, Madam Secretary. Global deforestation remains a regrettable evolution and therefore an important issue. Apparently, the European Environment Council also reached agreement on a European proposal for a regulation on deforestation-free products. All importers should verify that a defined list of products, forests, has been harvested. We are talking about palm oil, beef and soya, coffee, cocoa and carpentry. A number of derived products, such as leather, chocolate and furniture, are also covered. Non-EU countries will be classified according to a risk scale: the higher the risk, the heavier the requirements for traders will be. However, according to a number of environmental movements, it is not enough, Madam Secretary. It refers to a number of ecosystems that are left unprotected such as grasslands, wetlands and the Brazilian cerrado. Environmental organisations are also disappointed about the definition of deforestation or forest degradation. The proposal for a regulation was apparently amended. The definition used in the agreement would only apply to the conversion of primary forests into plantation forests. This would leave the vast majority of EU forests unprotected and maintain many harmful forestry practices. It is concluded that this could lead to the EU market remaining open to products such as wood and paper originating from destroyed forests, including primeval forests, before they are formally converted into tree plantations or agricultural land. Could you clarify the agreement on the Commission's proposal for a European regulation? How do you respond to the criticism of a number of environmental movements?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u14	Mr Ravyts, not only on the important and large climate package, the Environment Council took important steps forward on 28 June, but also on the proposal for a regulation on deforestation-free supply chains. The European Commission submitted that Regulation in November 2021, after which it was discussed in an ad hoc expert working group from January. I am pleased that the proposal for a regulation was a priority for the French Presidency. It is important that a legally binding framework is quickly established so that some key supply chains susceptible to deforestation become deforestation-free as soon as possible. The text of the regulation has become stronger in many respects, also thanks to our country's ambitious position. Belgium has taken the lead in the negotiations, together with the other countries of the Amsterdam Declaration Partnership, in making the text as ambitious as possible. The Belgian experts have ensured that the text has improved on several points. The French Presidency has therefore submitted to the Environment Council a proposal for a general approach or general approach. All Member States supported the adoption of that general approach and took note of the balanced and ambitious outcome. Several Member States, including Belgium, stressed at the Environment Council meeting that the adoption of the general approach is only the first step in the fight against deforestation and forest degradation. They looked forward to the forthcoming trialogues under the Czech Presidency and expressed the wish to conclude them as soon as possible. The Environment Council unanimously approved the general approach proposed by the French Presidency. Like many of my colleagues, I welcome the fact that we now have a text that is ambitious, effective, immediately applicable and compatible with WTO rules and that negotiations with the European Parliament can begin quickly. I received a delegation from the environmental movement, the week before the Environment Council meeting in my cabinet, to listen to her and to understand her concerns. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached on some of its concerns during the intra-Belgian consultations, because a number of fellow ministers did not agree with the proposals on the table. Nevertheless, the overall ambitious approach would not have been achieved without the help and support of the many citizens and different stakeholders, both at national and international level. I am truly grateful for all the input and proposals that Belgian experts have received from various quarters and from different stakeholders. More than 1 million Europeans demanded, through the Together4Forests campaign, a strong new EU law to combat imported deforestation. That's a strong signal coming from society. I welcome the call of so many citizens, organisations and businesses to join forces in the fight against deforestation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u15	Indeed, there is a need for a legally binding framework to avoid deforestation for supply chains. So the general orientation paper didn't really come too soon. I take note of the fact that once again no agreement could be reached at the level of intra-Belgian consultation. This must have to do with a number of specific aspects of Flemish geography, I suppose. We will light our light on this in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u16	Madam Minister, at the NATO Summit in Madrid there was a great deal of attention to the defence budgets of different countries and to the fact that NATO is being extended to include Finland and Sweden. A little less attention was paid to the new Strategic Concept of NATO, but that is not insignificant either. After all, NATO says what it intends to do in the years to come, what it intends to do and what the major new threats are for it. I note that there too, as in our national strategic plan, it is said that climate warming is the biggest threat we have to face. It is a good thing that NATO is saying this and wants to turn it into a strategy. She also indicates that she wants to lower the alliance's ecological footprint. There were also statements on the strategic-military aspect of the Arctic. It is said that the potential is that there is a lot of precious raw materials there because of the melting ice. Europe's position is well known, and Europe wants a moratorium on it. This was also discussed at that summit in Madrid. Madam Secretary, how are you looking at this new Strategic Concept of NATO? In what way can Belgium work on this? Of course, I'm going to ask this question to your colleague from the Defense Department. However, there is also an important impact on your policy area. That is why I am asking you this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u17	Mr Verduyckt, at Ministries of Defence abroad, in the United States and in the United Kingdom, incorporating the climate crisis as a trend in their strategic analysis and subsequently in their programme is not new. Since the beginning of this century, this has been on their agenda. The climate change situation has not improved, on the contrary. It is therefore not surprising that NATO also pays great attention to this in the new Strategic Concept in 2022. I am curious whether people's representatives who dream of... on the Belgian coast also think that NATO is creating fear. May I also point out that during the debate in Belgium on the level of defence budget, I took the view that security is not just a question of investing in Defence, but also in food and energy security, adaptation to climate change, dealing with resource scarcity and risk analysis of our infrastructures, investments and industries. Our safety deserves more than 2 % of our GNP. Significant investments in a just transition are needed. These are all themes that are also mentioned in NATO's Strategic Concept 2022. My position is not new but runs like a thread through my policy. Last year, the government agreed to my proposal to create an OCAD climate that the National Security Council recommends. The operationalisation is under way to launch a programme for a just commodity-resilient society this year. This programme should consist of a new cell of knowledge at the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, the funding and supervision of scientific research at BELSPO and the setting up of a subsidy programme for companies, both focusing on design for scarcity. I will not answer your second and third questions at this time. NATO's Strategic Concept 2022 was adopted at the Madrid Summit at the end of last week. Your question came in yesterday and I will ask my administration to carry out an analysis. In the meantime, do not hesitate to ask your questions, but as you have said, you can also ask my colleague, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u18	Madam Minister, when we discussed the security situation in our country in the Committee on Defence, I noticed that the professors and experts who are working on it are increasingly linking to climate change, while some colleagues do not yet want or dare to see this link. Defense will also have to change as an organization. The increased budget will help. This has to do with helping the nation and your plans for that OCAD, because we really need to be able to intervene in the event of a climate disaster. It also has to do with how we look at security in the world. I am truly convinced that people who lose everything in a climate disaster are people who have nothing left to lose and are very susceptible to extremist groups. There will also be problems in this area. It also has to do with the way in which we in the world deal with our material and the like in places where we see the consequences of global warming. Defence will have to adapt to this as an organisation and, finally, will also have to reduce its ecological footprint. I have already asked many questions about this to the Minister of Defence. I look forward to the analysis announced and will also ask your colleague, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u19	Madam Secretary, I am surprised that I am the only one to put a question about this ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court. When the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on abortion rights in the United States, our Parliament was just not on fire. Many colleagues were right to shout murder and fire when it came to the rights of many American women who were harmed by that ruling. The ruling of the same Supreme Court on climate policy in the US concerns us all and has an effect on all of us. The ruling was that EPA, the environmental agency of the U.S. federal government, has no right to regulate the emissions of power plants in the U.S. states. That statement is a catastrophe for American climate policy and, consequently, for the whole world. I will not go into too much detail about the statement itself, but I read, for example, that Hans Bruyninckx, director of the European Environment Agency, says that apart from the fact that the US will not be able to do climate policy properly, this also has an impact on many other countries in the world. They might ask why they should make efforts if the United States does not comply with the international climate agreements. It is sometimes difficult in this House to see what is happening in other countries, but this has an impact on international climate policy. How do you look at that? Do you think there is a way at our level or at European level to make it clear to the United States that this really is a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u20	Mr Verduyckt, on the first day of his term of office, President Biden decided to re-enter the Paris climate agreement. He stated that he wanted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States by 50% to 52% by 2030 compared to 2005. That was a very important announcement, because it brought the world 10 percent closer to the climate objectives agreed in Paris. Between word and deed, however, is the relentless reality. It is now important that President Biden and his successors effectively halve greenhouse gas emissions this decade. The latest figures available date from 2020. By 2020, emissions from all sectors in the US were around 23% below 2005 levels and those from the electricity sector as much as 40%. Due to the covide epidemic, emissions were naturally lower than normal. From the figures we learn that there is still a long way to go for the US to get from -23 % to -50 % in 9 years time. That brings us to the judgment in Case No. 20-1530 of the U.S. Supreme Court: West Virginia v. Environmental Protection Agency. The question raised by the judges in the new case was whether the Clean Air Act allowed the environmental agency EPA to issue substantial regulations on electricity production. More generally, the Court was asked to examine whether Congress should speak particularly clearly when it authorised executive agencies to address important political and economic issues. The Court concluded 6 to 3 that the Agency cannot impose general rules at the same time on all power plants that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That power belongs to Congress according to the Supreme Court. Specifically, EPA could no longer develop an ETS system as we know it in Europe in order to reduce emissions from all power plants in a carbon-efficient way. It may still take action with environmental rules for individual plants. The decision is certainly a blow to the climate policy of the US. It is not so much because of its immediate impact that EPA's regulations for power plants were not active yet, but because the road to rapid regulation of emissions is now closed. Now we need to take the more difficult road of regulation through the states or the Congress, where the lobby of the fossil sector is weighing more heavily. On the substance of the matter, whether the environmental agency could act within the Clean Air Act with general regulation, there has been a legal debate for decades. However, the overall trend in the energy sector in the United States is not as different as in the European Union. Hardly any more coal-fired power stations. In 2021, more than USD 100 billion was invested in renewable energy and clean technology, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance the highest amount ever. For example, 37 gigawatts of solar and wind power were added. This is partly because more and more large companies only want to reduce renewable energy through so-called clean power purchase agreements. The general trend is good, but regulation can bring about the necessary acceleration. That is the focus of this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u21	The Supreme Court's ruling is indeed difficult to assess. What I do note is that the stalemate in American politics makes it difficult to make major decisions there. Of course, that doesn't make much sense. The United States is one of the largest emission countries in the world today. On the other hand, they have always been a leader and we have always looked at them with great eyes. However, when I look today at what is happening in the areas of abortion rights, arms rights and climate rights, because that has an impact on us, I feel a great deal of misunderstanding. You have already indicated in your reply that the companies themselves are taking responsibility there, while politics may fail. That is, of course, a very sad observation. I look forward with you to the impact that will have on the international climate negotiations at COP27 in Egypt. I'm not exactly happy with the evolution in that country with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u22	Madam Minister, I would like to share with you a quote from Dutch-speaking culture. Willem Elsschot wrote 100 years ago: "Between dream and deed laws stand in the way and practical objections." If he wrote that today, he would add "and the courts." I still have questions about the climate impact of the war and about the arms race, but I will ask them next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-07-05-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic845x.u23	Thank you for your presence and close the sitting. See you soon!
