ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u1	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u2	Mrs Dillen, for a more detailed answer, please refer to the Minister of Finance. The problem to which you refer has arisen as a result of a reform within the general administration of collection and recovery at the FPS Finance. The FPS Justice was informed in April 2021 about the reform that would take place within this administration. The non-tax collection offices would cease to exist and their powers, including the recovery of the penalty fines and the special confiscation, would be transferred to the recovery teams. This operation was carried out without prior consultation with the Justice Department. Since that date, it is no longer possible for the prosecutors to request information on convictions prior to 2011 in order to restore honour. When the aforementioned problem became apparent, so no more information about prior 2011 convictions could be obtained from several prosecutors have contacted the FPS Finance. An ad hoc working group was then set up in October 2021 to examine what solution could be found. This consultation revealed that the requested information is still available in most non-tax collection offices, but that the reform encountered many practical problems as of 1 May 2021. The old owners, i.e. the books in which all collections and collections were recorded manually, or the computer files created on their own initiative by some recipients, are still physically present in the old non-tax collection offices, while the infocenters are located at a different location. Staff to be able to access these layers and computer files would still be difficult to find. The FPS Finance thus only wished to communicate the data that has been digitally processed in their computer program FIRST since 2011. Dossiers have unfortunately been put on hold in many parquets at the moment. However, these unpaid old-age punitive penalties could still be collected, largely exceeding the cost of staffing and thus being regarded as an additional source of income. We are currently examining with the FPS Finance how to deal with these dossiers in a pragmatic way. Restoration is a favor that does not exist in many countries or is exceptional by linking it to very strict conditions. Consequently, the foreign authorities to which the Belgian extracts from the criminal record are submitted in the context of a temporary or long-term stay of Belgians abroad do not necessarily assume that the person concerned may have already been convicted and has been granted restitution in the past. The granting of reparations has important consequences in the event that the convictions were an argument for the negative opinion of the public prosecutor or a legal obstacle, such as obtaining Belgian nationality, having an arms licence issued, a safety certificate for placing (...), a participation by a manager or director in public procurement, employment in certain public services and work or voluntary service in which there is contact with minors. Your suggestion amounts to an automatic removal, which already exists for police punishment. In our view, it is unacceptable to extend this to criminal and criminal penalties in respect of society, which ultimately pays the price for public debt, including unpaid monetary penalties, social security contributions still due and fiscal debts. It goes without saying that this would also create inequality with the diligent applicants who do want and can prove that they have paid all the debts. Finally, by reversing the burden of proof of payment, any convicted person could claim that all punitive penalties were carried out by him or her.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u3	Minister, I asked this question after I saw that a colleague of the Open Vld had asked the question to Minister Van Peteghem, but did not receive an answer. That is why I am addressing you. Apparently, a research group has been set up to face various practical problems. Has the group's work been completed or is it still under investigation? You have given a rather detailed answer, so I will look again at your answer in order to see if further questions may need to be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u4	I will send you the answer to the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u5	Mr Minister, for the sake of clarity, with regard to someone who has been fined a heavy penalty of correction, it is difficult to argue here for a severe punishment of criminal offences and then say that these fines should not be paid. Let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Matz's 55028436C was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u7	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u8	Mrs Dillen, in preparation for the preparation of a full master plan, the FPS Justice has vetted the current real estate park, in which all parties were divided into categories, namely to retain, to retain, subject to renovation and others. In order to monitor the situation and the implementation of the objectives and to calculate them in the master plan, consultations are held on a regular basis with the Secretary of State's cabinet. The Administrations of the FPS Justice and of the Government of the Buildings are working in a transparent, flexible and full-time manner on the further processing of the data in the multi-annual investment plan of the Regie der Buildings. Justice is working on new needs programmes for the courthouses, taking into account the new way of working, the digitisation, telework and the organisation of new receptions. The papers also continue to focus on centralisation at the level of the arrondissement or the resort in specially designed pilots following the pilot project in the Antwerp district of Herentals. The start of the master plan has already been discussed several times with the Executive Board of the Buildings. Several projects have already been included in the multiannual investment programme. After this preparatory work, we must now get to work in concrete terms. In reply to your third question, I would like to inform you that some synergies are being prepared for new construction projects. For the new construction in Asse there is synergy with the FOD Finance. For Mechelen there is a project synergy running together with the city of Mechelen, the local and federal police and the FPS Justice Department. During the renovation works of the courthouse in Verviers, the judicial services are housed in Rue de Dison, in a building shared with the FPS Finance. However, it is important that, in the context of the redrafting of the security architecture, which I mentioned earlier in the Joint Committee on Home Affairs and for Justice in connection with the discussion of the Government's decision to strengthen the FGP, rationalisations will be considered, both at the level of the judicial police and at the level of the prosecutors and the level of the seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and we will follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I would like to draw my attention to the matter. 55000295I in. We discussed this earlier and I do not want to repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Buyst's 55028677C was postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55028734C, No. 55028740C and No. Mrs De Wit's 55028756C has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u12	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u13	Colleague, in reply to your first and second questions, I do not know where the alleged claim is that the ADIV would regret not to be informed of the release of teruged inmates with a link to defence. I would like to stress that this is crucial - that information does indeed flow through the common database and through the working group on criminal execution in the framework of the strategic paper Strat TER, the successor to the former Plan R. In this way, mayors are also notified of a release. In fact, the ADIV is one of the basic services, with reading and writing rights in the GGB. The ADIV is also invited to the LTF, the local task force, where people in the GGB are overflowing. Assuming that the ADIV would have made that claim, it is incorrect. I also refer to the Committee I report on Mr Conings' research. Having said that, on the legal question of access to SIDIS Suite by royal decision, I can say the following. The ADIV is indeed included among the actors with a right to read in SIDIS Suite, in Article 7 of the Law of 5 May 2019. This was done on the advice of the Committee I at the drafting of the law. However, as far as I am aware, the ADIV has never since manifested itself in order to explain in concrete terms the need for access to SIDIS Suite data with a view to the drafting of the Royal Decree. My administration is currently examining whether the lack of implementing decisions, which were indeed initiatives, is not partly due to the way in which the law of 5 May 2019, in particular Article 7, was interpreted. The law was conceived as a lex specialise, which exhaustively determines who is given access to the SIDIS Suite data for what reason, in the sense that that person must be determined by KB. The question under consideration is, on the one hand, whether that KB instrument is not too rigid to address evaluating needs and, on the other hand, whether the actors listed in Article 7 should all be treated in the same way, in short, whether the status of lex specialis is sustainable. The draft amending the law of 30 July 2018, which is in preparation, may also have an impact on the law of 5 May 2019. The law of 5 May 2019 will also be subject to an examination of compliance with the wider data protection legislation. It is advisable to await the investigations and possible legislative changes. As far as your third and fourth questions are concerned, at the moment, on the basis of a substantive review of the current files, there are no terrogated prisoners who are being followed in detention and have a link with the Defence Department. The last military officer in prison on suspicion of or for acts of terrorism was a person convicted in 2014 for acts of terrorism in the context of the Blood, Soil, Honor and Faith trial. It is not entirely clear to me whether your fourth question relates to all the degenerates and not to the degenerates with a link to the Defense Department. If so, I would ask you to ask me the question in writing so that I can give you the exact figures in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u14	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u15	When is an evaluation of the security coordinators planned to assess whether it is necessary to recruit additional security coordinators and to assess whether the management tasks do not affect the time required for the follow-up of terra-detainees and radicalised detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u16	Colleague, a coordinator of security and safety should be appointed in each prison. We have chosen to entrust that important and delicate job to individuals with experience in the prison system. The position was therefore integrated into the local management team. Of course, we are compensating for the additional workload. That is the case in the four pilot prisons in Latin, Andenne, Ghent and Bruges. The coordinator security & safety is the reference person par excellence in the local management team in the field of security policy. In the preventive field, the coordinator will monitor the safety processes, ensure the proper functioning of the intervention team, organise special safety interventions and also guarantee infrastructure safety. The coordinator will also monitor isolated, individual or group incidents as well as specific security phenomena. For this purpose, the coordinator will carry out analyses, formulate recommendations and monitor their implementation in consultation with internal and external partners. The need for intervention plans will also be followed up by the coordinator in cooperation with the prevention advisor. In the context of risk profiles and, in particular, profiles linked to radicalism, extremism or terrorism, the coordinators will be responsible for the organisation of the penitentiary integral security cells. For all these tasks, the coordinator will develop a local security network. The coordinators security & safety are the translation of what the Security of the State, the OCAD and DJSOC-Terro the Prisoner Information Officers or PIOs have mentioned by analogy with the information officers of the local police, in accordance with a series of recommendations in the framework of the Radicalisation Action Plan in prisons. The partner services which are also active in the National Working Party on Prisons under the Strat TER Plan have always highlighted this in the joint list of needs they have drawn up following, inter alia, the Benjamin Herman case and the ensuing recommendations of the Committee I. Philosophy was a better and above all more sophisticated flow of information from the prison system to the security services around the phenomena of extremism and terrorism. The Security of the State has already offered to brief and train the Prison Information Officers, by analogy with other training initiatives to which the Security of the State has cooperated. Continuously, the Security of the State and EPI also work together on other training pathways related to radicalisation, extremism and terrorism. Examples include the specialized ten-day education on radicalisation and the study day organised by EPI in November 2022. On your last question, after the appointment of the coordinators in each prison and the recruitment of the attachés, it will be examined whether additional reinforcement is necessary. The security of the State is, of course, always willing to participate in the evaluation of the pilot project. On the ground, this cooperation has already started in those prisons where a coordinator has already been appointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I understand that there are four pilot projects currently under way. You will evaluate it and then the intention is to appoint a coordinator in all prisons. What's the time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u18	Mrs Dillen, I will send you that answer, because I cannot answer that immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u19	I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u20	Mrs Gabriels, thank you for your interesting question. It can indeed be assumed that the conditions laid down in Article 3.30 § 2, second paragraph, of the Civil Code apply only to the deaths occurring after the entry into force on 1 July 2022. The conditions will not apply retroactively to deaths which occurred before the entry into force. This can be derived from the transitional regime provided for in Article 37 of the Law of 4 February 2020, which contains Book III. Paragraph 1 (1) of the article expressly states that the law applies only to the legal facts that took place after its entry into force, i.e. to deaths from 1 July 2022. A death is a fact of law. This is also in line with the principle of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u21	Thank you, Minister. It was an important question for the notary, given that 1 July is coming close.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u22	First of all, I should like to point out that I cannot comment on individual court decisions. You know that, too. That's not the kind of thing a Justice Minister should do. Specifically, your question was basically about the release mechanisms. You know that the previous government has adapted it. At the moment, we are preparing the fundamental change in the Criminal Code, and then we will continue with the work on the Criminal Enforcement Code. The most important thing is that we get the quality of the sentence back up. We need to ensure that the penalties are implemented, which we will work gradually from September onwards, and we also need to focus on meaningful detention and preparations for parole from detention. That is the only way we can fight back. That is a priority challenge for me. As you know, intensive discussions have been taking place in recent months within the government on the new Criminal Code, including a more criminal approach and an improvement in the TBS. We are currently putting the finishing touches to this design. The punishments, the concepts, imposed treatment, extended follow-up TBS we want to improve. These punishments are in fact a single global objective, and that is the need for the follow-up, treatment and guidance of convicted persons who, during or after their punishment, pose a danger to society. Soon I will be able to give you more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u23	I would like to hear you talk about meaningful detention, the improvement of the TBS and the need for follow-up, but my specific question was whether you would make it compulsory for certain criminals for life. This is a very important objective which we would very much like to see achieved. However, I do not get an answer to that. What you said was very diplomatic. I will therefore wait and see what you will submit to the committee. Surely criminals who have no sense of guilt at all and commit atrocious acts can be asked for an opinion from the Minister of Justice? How do you feel about that? What do you intend to provide for these people in the future? Unfortunately, I have not heard an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u24	Mevrouw de voorzitster, dear colleague, the costs and fees governed by the Royal Decree of 18 December 1998 are in fact based on the situation which prevailed when the procedure for the collective settlement of debts was entirely done on paper, at least in respect of the separate and flat-rate allowances referred to in Article 4 for administrative costs incurred by a debt mediator in connection with those cases. For this reason, a working group has begun to develop different scenarios with a view to adapting this royal decree to the new reality. In this context, we will take into account the aspirations of debt mediators, but we will also strive to keep the total cost of a collective debt settlement procedure as low as possible, so that it will also remain bearable for debtors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u25	Minister, thank you. This is indeed important, since the process is itself being digitized. This should take place on 1 January. There is therefore growing concern in the profession. I am pleased to know that the drafting is under way of a new royal decree which reviews the methods of remuneration, simply to maintain the current remuneration of the mediators. I hope that it will come into being before 1 January, the actual date of the modification of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u26	"Mr. Minister, the issue of insecurity is central in this period of inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u27	Thank you for your answers."
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u28	Dear colleague, article 1409 (3) of the Judicial Code allows the King to adapt these thresholds taking into account the economic situation after having obtained the opinion of the National Labour Council. However, this paragraph contains a second subparagraph stipulating that the decree thus adopted shall enter into force on 1 January of the year following its publication in the Belgian Moniteur. In view of this second subparagraph, paragraph 3 of this Article does not seem to constitute a derogation from the periodicity of indexation but rather a derogation from the method of calculating the adjustment of these amounts. However, it is not possible to adapt these thresholds with immediate entry into force. It will therefore be necessary to wait until November 2022 to be able to adapt them with an entry into force on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u29	Minister, thank you. In part, I regret the answer because I was not asking to change the basic amounts but to see whether these basic amounts, which were indexed for the last time last November on the basis of a royal decree, and in view of inflation, could not be indexed more quickly since these people receive income or indexed allowances and a pecule – which can go down to the elusive threshold – which is not indexed, while they pay larger invoices. I understand your situation and I would like – if we consider that paragraph 3 cannot be used – to know whether it is not possible to find an urgent vehicle, even if we are making a derogation this year, by an urgent legislative amendment, by allowing this threshold to be indexed now, even if it is re-indexed in November in the light of supplementary inflation. If you agree, I suggest that you see what urgent means we can put in place to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u30	Mr Aouasti, I would like to add that you are well aware that the group of experts chaired by Mr Wunsch has discussed in particular the indexation of tax thresholds. At some point, for me, it is in the same category of discussions. I don't know if we're going to discuss it in the Kern in particular. I think the questions you are asking are legitimate questions. I'm not going to make a promise of results. My answer was rather technical, that is, we cannot do it by means of a royal decree, but we could do it by way of a change of law. That's what you're saying. If the theme is submitted to Kern, I will do what is necessary to discuss it and see what answers could be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u31	Mr Minister, I thank you for your openness and for your reflection. Indeed, the advantage is that, contrary to the indexation of tax thresholds that results in a change in the standard, here we are only adapting things to inflation.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u32	Dear colleague, there are as many situations of heat wave management as there are prisons in our country. How, in fact, apply the same rules in a modern prison like Leuze as in the Arlon prison, which is the oldest in the country? I quote Arlon prison because work was announced last February in this regard. This is obviously the second factor related to the consideration of heat in prisons. Some prisons have undergone renovations and already allow for better management of heatwave periods, compared to prisons that have remained with their initial facilities. In all cases, adjustments are made to the detention regime. This will include, for example, providing more access to showers for prisons that do not yet have this possibility in cells, or allowing door windows to remain open to improve cell ventilation and to provide for water distribution. As you can see, the situation is not easy, but prison management and staff are always dynamic and creative to make these situations as difficult as possible for everyone. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u33	Thank you, Minister, and I would like to join you in thanking the directorates and staff of the correctional institutions. I am sure they are doing the best they can. Already, at large, the heat wave is difficult to withstand for many people. When they're in prison, it's even worse. I have no doubt that prison measures should be taken per prison, depending on the particular situations of each. Thank you for paying attention to this because the summer that comes announces very high temperatures. Being locked 23 hours a day without access to water, in his cell and sometimes in an overpopulation situation, will be really very difficult to cope with. It's even a matter of security, whether it's for inmates or agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 55029093C by Mrs Jadin is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Goffin's 55029194C, 55029196C and 55029198C were postponed. Mr Ducarme is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u35	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u36	Mrs Bury, your question shows little respect for the investigation of the public prosecutor and the investigating judge. However, I would like to give you a number of answers. The new sexual criminal law which entered into force on 1 June 2022 contains Articles 417/57 to 457/60. I quote only Article 417/59, Paragraph 2, paragraph 2, and Paragraph 3: "Without prejudice to other legal provisions, the court may, on account of facts committed to the detriment of a minor or with his participation, dismiss the right, for a period of one year to 20 years (1) in any capacity whatsoever, to participate in education in a public or private institution receiving minors; 2 to participate, as a volunteer, a member of the statutory or contractual staff or as a member of the administrative and management bodies, of any legal or factual association whose activity is primarily directed at minors; 3 to be assigned an activity which places the convicted person in a relationship of trust or authority vis-à-vis minors, as a volunteer, a member of the statutory or contractual staff or as a member of the administrative and management bodies, of any legal or factual association. § 3. The prohibitions and outrages referred to in this Article shall take effect from the date on which the judgment takes effect. However, the period shall be extended by the period during which the imprisonment or detention is carried out, with the exception of the period of early release." For such far-reaching measures, the blame must of course be established through a conviction by the criminal court. However, measures can also be taken in the course of the investigation, for example through pre-trial detention or other measures such as freedom under conditions. In the course of the investigation, the directives provide that information from the investigation may already be communicated to the employer and the profession in order to enable them to take the necessary measures. Those are disciplinary measures. As far as your second question is concerned, we are fully working on a new Criminal Code in which the measures around the TBS and the follow-up can be discussed. Your question about enlargement and the obligation of TBS is on the table there. I fully agree with you that we must be strict against perpetrators of criminal offences, not only sexually. But also against all other perpetrators who pose a significant and lasting threat to our society. You are well aware that we were not able to have this discussion exclusively about sexual crimes. For the new Criminal Code, the discussion had to be about all crimes. Then your third question. In all cases, requiring the judge to seek advice from sex offenders is not always helpful. Give the judge a chance to ask for an opinion and let him decide for himself. In some cases, everything will be clear to the judge and then such advice will only slow down. After all, asking for advice takes time. So let the judge decide whether he or she considers it necessary to seek an opinion. Fourthly, in connection with the change in the professional secrecy of the lawyer, Article 458 of the Criminal Code provides that persons who become aware of a crime which presents a serious and threatening danger to certain persons may nevertheless bring this crime to the attention of the King's Attorney. Lawyers are not subject to an automatic speaking obligation. Lawyer.be has itself stated that they cannot, because lawyers should then share all information with the King's Attorney when this is incriminating to their client in the course of their professional activities. Here too, my colleague, this debate is completely separate from the reform of the new sexual criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u37	Madam President, Minister, my questions were not specifically about this dossier. You say it shows little respect. I did not hear you say that in plenary last week when Mr Liekens talked about this. It's okay. It's okay. Strange. I'm just looking at the policy choices you make. Then I am going to sidestep the issue and I think that this is how we can prevent such cases, so that this happens less in the future. We know well enough that no one else's head dares swear that it will never happen again. You have just replied with regard to this TBS, and I shall await that draft. With regard to this change in professional secrecy and reporting obligations, I think I need to be clearer. I'm talking about doctors and stuff. I know there was an exception for lawyers, which was also discussed in that amendment to sexual criminal law. I'm talking about a reporting obligation, not of lawyers who can report when there are heavy facts, but of doctors and CLB staff who have a duty to report cases when they see something isn't right. I once quoted the example of the executioner from Vilvoorde, who did so for years with his new partner and children. He pushed cigarette butts out on the arms. The CLB was aware of this and hid behind professional secrecy. There must be a reporting obligation for such cases. If aid workers see such a thing in children, they cannot and cannot hide behind professional secrecy. We have not gone into that further, but that is an important point. We have a different opinion on the mandatory advice of the sex offenders. We believe that it is appropriate, defined for a number of crimes. The judges can only be helped in the difficult choices they have to make. Finally, compulsory treatment. Here too, it's all a bit easy. The unsub says he doesn't feel like it, and that's where it stops, you can't force it. In some cases, it should be possible to enforce treatment if society becomes safer in this way. I didn't get an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u38	Mrs Hugon, I am indeed informed of the situation at Saint-Gilles prison, which I visited. As such, I received a letter from Ms. Trachte, President of COCOF, and Minister Glatigny. In concrete terms, it is certain that the overpopulation is particularly high. Many transfers take place to reduce it and try to return to the 900-inmate threshold. By the end of last week, a total of 45 transfers had been made to other prisons, while 9 are still being made this week. However, I can only note that we are not going down below the 900, as many nuts continue to be applied. On 28 June, the prison population still had 913 inmates, for a total of 11,132 in the country. Under such conditions, staff and management are doing their utmost to ensure maximum activity, but I must note that this severely limits those of the aid services. My office has almost daily contacts with the prison and the social partners in order to assess what can be done, but it is currently difficult to envisage activities other than those organised. It was agreed to reassess the situation on 1 July and to continue to monitor developments throughout the summer. Fortunately, the prison population is systematically declining during the summer. Moreover, the opening of Haren in the autumn will speed up the movement of the three Brussels settlements.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do not doubt, of course, that the staff really do everything they can to manage a particularly complicated situation. That's certainly not what I wanted to suggest. On the other hand, this remains a real problem, as you yourself pointed out, in relation to the imperative need for inmates to have access to these external services. I wonder if this gauge of 900 inmates is really the best idea to keep. I am afraid that this will set a precedent and that every time we go beyond it, the external services will no longer be able to act as they should. I'm a little worried about that. I would like to plead, even if I have no doubt that you are doing everything you can, so that the return of external services to prison in a more satisfactory manner does not depend solely on the 900 gauge. Indeed, for inmates, having an on-off service based on the number of inmates is not effective. I wanted to point out to you my real concern. I have no doubt that you share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-06-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic841x.u40	Mrs Cornet had announced her arrival, but she is not present, so I suppose her question No. 55028901C may be postponed. The questions put by the Members from whom we have not heard anything have lapsed. The interplay No. Mrs Bury's agreement is postponed until next week.
