ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u1	The first question on the agenda is question No. 55024839C by Mrs Depoorter, who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u2	I ask this question following a conviction of three individuals two months ago, to whom severe penalties were imposed. This case attracted my attention. At that time I remembered that a resolution on this issue was adopted in the Chamber. There were some pretty clear points in that resolution and I would like to know what the state of play is. I refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u3	Mr Verduyckt, on 24 September 2020, the comprehensive Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment established the National Task Force Sustainable Wildlife Trade. His task is to trade in alien species in Belgium, including the specific problem of wild animal meat. My administration, the Directorate-General for Environment of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, coordinates the work and task force that followed the conference "Dead or alive: towards a sustainable wildlife trade" in 2019. In concrete terms, two sub-groups were set up, one on trade in live alien animals and their derived products, the other on trade in wild animal meat. Several public and scientific institutions are part of these working groups, together with representatives of customs and the BFSA, the CITES department, the College of Attorneys General, the Museum of Natural History and the regional administrations active in nature conservation. It is essential that Belgium can take effective action against illegal imports of wild animal meat, as Belgium is a final destination and consumer country. The impact on biodiversity has been demonstrated, but other areas, such as animal or human health, may also be involved. The illegality of such trade also involves horizontal areas of competence, such as police, justice or customs, for border controls. Together with my fellow ministers responsible for these matters, we must ensure multidisciplinary dialogue between all actors and this according to the One Health approach. Therefore, the implementation of the task force's mandate is one of my policy priorities, as I have already indicated in the general policy papers, which I was able to present here in 2020 and 2021. In March 2021, like my colleagues at the comprehensive Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment, I took note of the results of the first phase of the task force's mandate. They set six policy objectives to tackle the illegal trade in wild animal meat. This allowed the start of the second phase of the mandate, namely the development of a project to achieve the strategic objectives. The Task Force identified 30 actions in 2021. Concrete implementation and budgeting are currently under consideration in order to be adequately converted into a national action plan. When the draft plan is ready, it will be submitted to an extended ICL for initial approval. Then, in accordance with the Aarhus Convention, there will be a public consultation which will most likely be approved by the enlarged ICL by the end of this year. In order to resolve as soon as possible the expectation of the 2021 resolution, in particular as regards better scientific knowledge of the import flows, I gave my administration the green light to support, through co-financing, a BRAIN research project in the framework of federal scientific research. The project selection process is still under way and I very much hope that it will be approved. For example, a number of necessary measures on forest meat can be set up very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u4	I'm satisfied with the answer. The composition of the Task Force clearly indicates the importance attached to this issue. The multidisciplinarity is, of course, also the challenge of this theme. Then you have listed a number of steps which seem very logical to me in order to arrive at a good action plan. However, the plan has not yet been approved. The steps to achieve additional scientific research seem fine to me. We are therefore looking forward to the results of the action plan. The most important thing, of course, is that, as we have seen in the newspaper article, we can effectively punish people when they engage in it. This way we can push the phenomenon away.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u5	Madam Minister, I have a specific question about the implementation of the coalition agreement. The government agreement states that your government will provide tailor-made services: it will address the needs of the Länder which may be somewhat different because there are geographical differences. I have repeatedly asked your colleagues, Mrs Verlinden and Mr Clarinval, how this will be done and what approach will be taken in the various areas of competence. They always replied to me that they will not do so, but that it is the task of the trade ministers. We were urged to send a letter to you and your colleagues. I understand that you have not yet answered, because Minister Verlinden tells me that she has only received an answer from Ministers Vandenbroucke, Van Peteghem and Dedonder and Secretary of State Mahdi. I assume that there will be cooperation in the government and that if a letter ends up on your desk, you will send a letter back politely. Madam Secretary, has that actually happened? Can a copy of that letter be delivered to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u6	Mr Loones, the passage in question comes from the coalition agreement and is clear. That passage in the coalition agreement provides for the possibility for the federal authorities to exercise their jurisdiction asymmetrically. But, as the text says, that is a possibility, not an obligation. Following the letter from the Minister for Institutional Reforms, which you are quoting, I did indeed examine the possibility of taking such an initiative within my powers. My conclusion is that this is not appropriate for my powers today. Consequently, I confirm that I have not yet delivered proposals on asymmetric policy within my powers to the Minister for Institutional Reforms. Should I change my opinion on this issue in the future, I will not fail to inform my colleagues concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. If that is your analysis, then I would suggest that you put it politely on paper and let your colleagues know. At least they'll know where they stand. That seems appropriate for a team that wants to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u8	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u9	Madam Minister, this will also enable Parliament to be informed. Besides, I think this is a missed opportunity. You can make all possible analyses about it, because the reality is that in geographical terms the situation in Flanders is completely different from the situation in Wallonia. We no longer have the vast open area that still exists on the other side of the language border. On the other hand, we do have the North Sea, which Wallonia does not have. It seems to me that this situation is different and therefore quite different, tailor-made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u10	In my answer it is about the findings so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u11	Madam Secretary, I appreciate you making a re-evaluation possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u12	Mr Loones, it was nice to see you in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u13	Madam Minister, the National Climate Commission met for the first time this year on Thursday 24 February. This was the first meeting under the new Flemish Presidency. At the same time, the meeting was very high, with the resumption of negotiations on Burden Sharing. Madam Secretary, how did that meeting go? What has been discussed and decided? Is there any more clarity on the timetable for further negotiations on Burden Sharing? Will you deliver the report of the sitting to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u14	Madam Minister, in mid-January you called on the competent Flemish Minister who is currently chairing the National Climate Committee to resume work on Burden Sharing. You referred to the undivided EUR 530 million blocked in a national account. You wanted a quick restart of the distribution negotiations, to use the EUR 530 million if necessary for structural policies to reduce the energy bill of families. On 24 February, there was a meeting on the agenda including Burden Sharing, the state of negotiations, including the proposal for a decision on the Response Mechanism, the organisation of climate tables in the context of the review of the federal policies and measures of the NEKP and the planning for the eighth national communication of the fifth biennial report under the UNFCCC reporting guidelines. Can you explain the results of the meeting of this National Climate Commission on the cited topics?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u15	Minister, a meeting of the National Climate Commission took place on February 24th and the negotiations to conclude a cooperation agreement therefore resumed. You recalled that EUR 530 million was in a national account and that this amount could only be released after an agreement on the distribution between federal and regional authorities. Minister, could you provide an update on this matter? What is the status of the discussions on the subject? What are the blocking elements? Could you please specify the timetable for these negotiations? When do you think this new cooperation agreement can be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u16	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question has already been clearly raised. How do we proceed with the story of the Burden Sharing? I would particularly like to know what priorities you want to put forward in this regard. What are the next milestones in this area? In what way do you intend to weigh this from the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u17	Mr President, the NKC meeting on 24 February was previously informative and was not so much a meeting where many decisions were taken. At this stage, negotiations on burden sharing 2021-2030 take place in working groups between firms and not directly within the National Climate Commission. The Flemish Presidency has therefore limited itself to presenting a summary of the negotiations. Discussions between the various firms are continuing. A precise timetable for the finalisation of the discussions has not yet been given, but the Presidency has indicated that it wants to reach a political agreement later this year and preferably before the summer. In addition, the Presidency presented its annual programme focusing, in addition to the Burden Sharing, on the preparation of the update of the NEKP 2021-2030 and the progress report of the NEKP 2021-2030. All parties agreed to this. The NKC has approved its annual budget and work programme. It is striking to note the large number of mandatory reports that have been included for this year and early next year, which will mainly involve work for the experts within the administrations. The eighth national communication of the fifth biennial report for the UNFCCC will also provide an opportunity to take stock of the progress made in implementing our international commitments for the period 2013-2020, before we will officially move on to the new architecture of the Paris Agreement. The National Climate Commission also discussed the completion of the annual report on the implementation of the cooperation agreement Burden sharing 2013-2020. What is still preventing this report from being produced is the lack of the renewable energy part. However, this is an expected step forward at the next CNC-CONCERE joint meeting on 18 March 2022. On the other hand, the National Climate Commission did not address the updating of the PNEC or the preparation of the follow-up report for this PNEC, as these items were also reserved for the joint meeting I have just mentioned. However, the Federal Government has expressed its intention to organise climate tables with civil society in the context of the federal policy review and the federal measures of the NEKP 2021-2030 and has proposed to the Regions that they should at least partially join them. This is particularly important in order to strengthen the dialogue between the parties and to increase synergies in the support that the federal government could provide to the regions, as well as in the context of inter-federal measures. This invitation was received fairly positively, but also with some reserve. For example, clarifications were asked to make things even more concrete and timing remains a challenge. I still do not have the report of the sitting at the moment, but I will not fail to share it with you once it has been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u18	Madam Secretary, your Dutch is getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Like you, we hope that the National Climate Commission will soon be able to reach a good agreement on the sharing of burdens and the desires of climate policy. We're running out of time. Of course, it would have been better if we hadn't had to waste time negotiating these kinds of divisions. The PVDA will therefore continue to advocate the re-federalisation of climate policy. In addition, we insist that Parliament be given access to the full reports of the National Climate Committee, not only in view of the openness of administration, but also so that we can exercise our full powers of control. We find it particularly regrettable that the effective negotiations are taking place outside the NKC, in informal meetings that do not have a transparency obligation. We would prefer that these negotiations should be conducted in accordance with the official, democratically agreed procedures within the NKC.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u20	Mrs Daems, we cannot be naive. These negotiations are first part of an exchange within administrative working groups. Politics is the last to knock that off. Madam Secretary, that knocking is not going to be easy. I am very curious whether Mrs Demir will be able to deliver on her announcement for the summer. With regard to the climate tables that were strongly announced in your original policy papers, we see that it is also not easy for the Regions to take sufficient speed in doing so. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It must be noted that intrabelge burden sharing is never a long, quiet river and that there is no source for the distribution of revenue from the European ETS quota trading system. I hear a timetable has been set. That's good, but there are currently hundreds of millions of euros waiting to be distributed. In any case, rather than sleeping on a bank account, they could also and above all be used to support households in this period of explosion of energy costs. Minister, we are counting on you to ensure that the various entities agree on this allocation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u22	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is mainly a matter of waiting and seeing how things continue. I am a little less optimistic than my colleagues about the fact that negotiations would take place within the National Climate Committee. I don't know if you've ever negotiated with four parties and 16 representatives at once. I've been in the NKC myself, and the chances of something being decided there are pretty small, unless there was an agreement in advance. I see the Minister almost nodding, but that is indeed the reality. Unlike my colleague, I think that further regionalisation of the domain would be preferable. For example, it would be better suited to areas such as the environment, mobility, the economy and so on. However, that is a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u23	Madam Minister, on 28 February 2022, the UN Climate Panel presented the second part of its sixth assessment report on climate change. As usual, the newspapers reported numerous doomsday scenarios. During the press conference, the IPCC made it clear that choosing the doom scenario is a guilty omission. After all, there are many solutions to arm ourselves against the effects of climate change in addition to the necessary deep emission reductions. The only thing missing is the policy and funding to realize them. Science is clear. The solutions are there. We must now all take urgent and rapid action in the field of adaptation to avoid accumulation of losses and damage and to move towards climate-proof development. In your response to the report, you indicated that the federal ministers are currently examining what adaptation measures they can take. That's so included in the federal climate route plan. What is the exact timeline for the landing of that exercise? When will the measures be implemented? Will you ask your fellow ministers to look at additional measures based on the insights of the IPCC report? The IPCC report sees good governance as essential for implementing an effective adaptation policy. In Belgium, however, climate governance is problematic. What are your plans to do about it so that an effective adaptation policy becomes possible? Will you follow the IPCC's recommendation to ensure inclusive adaptation policy design by involving civil society, local citizens and marginalised groups? What progress has been made with the negotiations on the new National Adaptation Plan in the National Climate Commission? How's it going? What's the timeline for these negotiations? When will you ensure that Belgium increases its contribution to international climate finance in line with needs? During an interview, you indicated yourself that this contribution was too limited. Finally, what position has Belgium taken on the concept of loss and damage in the validation of the IPCC report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u24	Minister, my question is necessarily quite similar to that of my colleague, but I am going to ask it anyway because, there is nothing to do, the IPCC report – more precisely the second chapter of the sixth assessment report – which deals specifically here with impacts, adaptation and vulnerability to climate change – is an important moment. It may have gone a little too far under radar in view of the international context of the crisis in Ukraine, but we know that the climate crisis is probably still the major crisis we are facing. I will use my minute to recall what this report puts forward, at least in broad terms. First, the irreversibility of the effects of climate change and the increase in risks and dangers, with an increase of 1.5 degrees which is known, in any case, inevitable. In addition, future impacts by 2040 will be significantly stronger than those already observed today. The report also points out that almost half of humanity lives in environments of great vulnerability to change and suffers disproportionately from its effects. Finally, he stressed that climate change would interact with other risks, leading to cascading risks, at least in some regions. The IPCC also recalls the central role of nature in our resilience and the importance of preserving it. But the report also points out, and I think that this is very important, that past and current patterns of development have increased the exposure of ecosystems and populations to climate risks and that short-term climate policies will be decisive for our ability to adapt to change, which is inevitable. In short, the report stresses once again the urgency, both in terms of reducing our emissions and implementing real adaptation policies. I was already questioning you following the release of the first chapter, but of course I am interested in having your analysis after the release of this second chapter. My additional questions to those that have already been heard are: what are you learning from this new chapter and how will you integrate the follow-up of this chapter into your cross-cutting work at the federal government policy level?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u25	Minister, as indicated on February 28, 2022, the IPCC released the second part of its sixth report, which deals with impacts, adaptation and vulnerability. If, in its fifth report, the IPCC referred to the potential future impacts of climate change, the present is preferred in this sixth report, while the future is used in a more assertive way: climate change has and will have effects on the world. It is therefore necessary to put in place adaptation policies in the developing countries, but also in the industrialised countries, as evidenced, in particular, by the floods in Belgium and Germany in July. Minister, what is your feedback on this report? What lessons do you learn? To what extent will it influence our country's international climate policy? Will the elements of this report be taken into account in the revision of the PNEC and the Federal Task Force on Adaptation project to be launched in the coming months? Particular attention is paid by the authors of the text to the notion of "losses and prejudices". The COP26 declaration already devoted a chapter to this point and referred in particular to the importance of "providing enhanced and additional support to activities dealing with loss and damage with the adverse effects of climate change". Can we obtain information on initiatives launched since the publication of this declaration? What about the negotiations on the Burden sharing cooperation agreements? The current situation is particularly restrictive and prevents any progress on international climate finance, a topic the IPCC text highlights. Can you tell us what initiatives have been taken by you to reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u26	Madam Minister, sometimes it seems as if the effects of the climate crisis disappear into the background as soon as they are no longer in the front of the news. Especially when we are faced with a war in Ukraine, the climate crisis seems less important. Of course, nothing else is true. The second part of the IPCC report is therefore very clear. "We need to adapt now, or suffer later," the report clearly states. That's plain language. Colleagues have already referred to it: the impact is already palpable. Climate change has already caused hundreds of plant and animal species to disappear on land and at sea. Extreme weather phenomena have already pushed millions of people into food and water insecurity. The impact of climate change is felt all over the world, including in our country. Climate adaptation and climate policy must now go hand in hand. We no longer have the luxury of doing one or the other. We have to prevent worse, and we do it by arming ourselves and adapting ourselves. The Ecolo Green Group has always considered that Belgium should play a proactive role in European and international negotiations. What lessons do you draw from the climate report? The government has decided to create some sort of "OCAD for the climate." How's that going? You expressed all the desire to work on a new national climate adaptation plan. How is that going to happen? Have you taken any steps in this respect? The second part of the IPCC report demonstrates the importance of strong international climate finance. How will our government better support the vulnerable regions of the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u27	Colleagues, indeed, as you have all said, the latest IPCC report once again highlights the urgency we face and the need for immediate action, both in terms of mitigation and adaptation, risk of loss and damage. This new report reinforces and reinforces my willingness to seize the opportunity not only for the revision of the PNEC, but also for the negotiations on burden sharing currently under way under the chairmanship of my colleague Zuhal Demir, with a view to strengthening our ambitions, collaboration and coherence in our climate policy. You recalled all the elements of the report in terms of impact, adaptation and vulnerability. Let me point out some of them too! The report highlights the interaction between impacts, risks associated with climate change and other types of risks. To avoid cascade effects, the preservation of biodiversity and ecosystems is a central element in adaptation and mitigation to climate change. Other lessons learned in this report include the link between adaptability and magnitude of warming. The report confirms that actions to limit global warming around 1.5 degrees would significantly reduce losses and damage compared to higher levels of warming. The magnitude of medium-, long-term impacts and associated risks are highly dependent on short-term mitigation measures. The IPCC also emphasizes the importance of engagement and monitoring of institutional frameworks, policies and instruments with clear objectives and priorities and inclusive governance processes. This is key to the success of climate policy in general and adaptation policies in particular. I welcome the IPCC's attention to this aspect. In the first year of my mandate, I have paid a great deal of attention to the development of a governance framework. I continue to believe that this is an essential part of federal climate policy. There is sometimes a bit of cognisance about the design of processes, but as the scientists stress, guaranteeing transparency and stakeholder involvement is not a detail. It is one of the preconditions for a fair and decisive policy. I will therefore spare no effort to continue to argue at federal and national level for cooperation and the active involvement of all those involved. At federal level, my initiative is indeed preparing a coherent set of adaptation measures. My colleagues in the government and I are working, with the support of all the departments concerned, on a series of eight proposals for action. A document consolidating these proposals is currently being finalised. That document will soon be submitted for validation within the government. It is then published for a public consultation. Feedback and input from all actors involved is an important part of the process. A final draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers at the end of the consultation. At the same time, the National Climate Commission is working on a new national adaptation plan. An interfederal working group is working on a proposal. The aim is to develop a coherent framework for an integrated adaptation policy, promoting synergies and cooperation between federal and regional authorities. Concrete measures to this effect will be identified with national scope. The scientists' findings also confirm this government's decision to strengthen our risk analysis capacity. The report is explicit on the fact that the recognition and proper identification of risks contribute to a stronger adaptation and mitigation policy, which also contributes to the reduction of risks. That is exactly what I wanted with the creation of the "OCAD Climate." We are working on the creation of operationalisation, in dialogue with stakeholders. I absolutely agree that climate finance needs to be raised. That is why I am aiming for a further increase in our federal contribution, as laid down in the coalition agreement. We must respect our commitments under the Paris Agreement. There has already been a certain path of growth since this government is in the saddle. In 2021, my fellow Minister Kitir and I took measures to increase the federal contribution to EUR 100 million. From 2022 onwards, total Belgian climate finance will increase further, to an estimated €135 million. The discussions on a new cooperation agreement with the Regions are also an opportunity for me to strive for an increase in the Belgian contribution to international climate financing. As Mr. Senesael indicated, the COP26 statement contained a chapter on loss and damage. The Glasgow Dialogue and Loss and Damage was established with the aim of obtaining a scheme to finance activities to prevent, minimise and map losses and damage. As an EU Member State, we will participate proactively in this dialogue. In addition to the Glasgow Dialogue, discussions are also under way on the Santiago network, which was established to bring together and accelerate technical support for loss and damage. We naturally support the further operationalisation of this network and are committed to improving international cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u28	Madam Minister, after the report has been published, you yourself said that it is still possible to change the course of events if the political will is for it, although the findings are more disturbing than ever. We notice good intentions, but good intentions are of course not enough. We now need urgent and accelerated action. We're counting on you to take care of it and not just plan it. Indeed, the IPCC report notes that many adaptation plans are not, hardly or not implemented in time. We want real measures and not paper tigers. We also need to address our national governance so that Belgium as a whole, and not just the federal government, can act in a coordinated and coherent way against climate change and its consequences. Such governance should be as inclusive as possible and actively listen to the public. Last but not least, Belgium must assume its historical responsibility by aligning its contribution to international climate finance with the needs and ensuring compensation for loss and damage.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You have highlighted a number of important elements, including the introduction of adaptation measures. We know he was the poor parent so far. So we are waiting to see how this is going to happen, but I think the experience of this summer shows us the urgency of success. You are therefore assured of our support in this regard. It is clear that the revision of the PNEC will be a decisive element of this legislature, in addition to last week's renewable energy agreement. It's a huge lever. We support you to be as ambitious as possible. I think you are right to point out that Belgium is not at all one of the bad students on climate finance, but there is still progress to be made. Please talk to your colleagues and don't forget to get your hands on the portfolio, especially since these hundred million would normally be additional to official development assistance. That's not the case at the moment. With regard to "Loss and damage", Wallonia has shown the right direction. You followed suit. I hope we can make it happen. I will conclude by saying that we are at a particular moment with this war in Ukraine, as has been pointed out. We already feel reactionary forces waking up in the face of managing this crisis. We know that this is the time to speed up the transition and not to make the wrong transition, not to do more than we have always done to the detriment of commitments in terms of biodiversity, in terms of short circuits, of the European Farm to Fork strategy, when we know – I think you will come back later with a question from my colleague – that the wrong solutions are again on the table. We're counting on you to be extremely attentive. I would like to close by saying that we have a number of young people listening to you today, young people from university, high schools. We know how much time it is to be responsible for the future generation. We have very little time left. You have our full support, Minister, to be as ambitious as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your analysis, the proposed lines of action, the strengthening of funding, and the increased support for activities dealing with loss and damage. You can only be encouraged to realize your positive and forward-looking intentions as quickly as possible. We know you can count on your determination, your ambition. My colleague called him back. I particularly stress that this report should be taken into account in the revision of the PNEC. In advance, thank you for your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u31	Madam Minister, in September 2021 we had an exchange on that report when the first part came out. Once again, as I said in the question, this report puts us on the brink of the facts that efforts must be stepped up, both internationally and at European level. For our group, it is very important that Belgium plays a proactive role in this. I am pleased to hear a minister here today who wants to appreciate a proactive role, who wants to create an OCAD for the climate, who wants to work on a new climate adaptation plan. Last week we had a hearing in the Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue with Mr Bruyninckx and Mr Wittoeck. They made it very clear that if we want to tackle the climate crisis, we need a transition in all economic areas. Very often we only talk about energy, but it is also about food, production and mobility. They have also made it clear, to which you have also referred, that loss and damage and adaptation will only become more important in international negotiations, including in the role we will play with Belgium. Finally, they have used cooperation as a key word, to which you have also referred. That cooperation is clearly what you want to achieve. I only hope that the different governments in our country have the same wish. I hope that the Flemish Government will finally dare to opt for innovation for its companies and for health for its citizens. I hope that climate for the Flemish Government is not just an excuse to play party political games, but that it finally really encourages that government to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u32	Minister, a French decree proposes to be able to support alternative car mobility in car advertisements. The idea is to promote more environmentally friendly mobility and, in some cases, better mobility for health. This initiative is led by Barbara Pompili, Minister of Ecology in France, and is inspired by the existing food model in which we promote a more balanced diet, better for health, neither too fat nor too salty. According to the same principle, since the beginning of this month, in car advertisements, France has promoted messages for short trips, for walking or cycling, for carpooling, for public transport. These mentions are now mandatory in car advertisements to support alternative mobility to the thermal car. Minister, do you intend to support this idea that I am proposing in Belgium? Is the implementation of such a scheme on the table in Belgium? If not, are you ready to study it? If so, can you provide us with more information about contacts with your relevant colleagues at the federal and federal levels? In addition, the NGO Greenpeace recently launched a petition to ban advertising for fossil fuels and fossil fuel transport. Have you read this petition? If so, can we get your point of view on this? More generally, can we get information on contacts with your competent colleagues at Belgian and European level on the issue of advertising for fossil energy sources? What is your position on this? Finally, do you join me in the idea of promoting alternative mobility in car advertisements in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u33	Thank you for your question, Member. First of all, I welcome the French initiative. It is true that the impact of positive messages is always more important than others. With regard to this type of positive campaign, I wanted to tell you that there are regional campaigns promoting alternative mobility. Whether in Brussels, through the very positive campaigns of my colleague Elke Van den Brandt, or in Wallonia, these campaigns exist. A campaign that accompanies car advertising as such does not exist. It would probably fall within the competence of Consumer Protection or the Economy, but I did not investigate the matter. We could do it from your question. With regard to the ban on advertising for thermal cars, I must tell you that on a personal basis, I am totally in favour of it. It seems to me to be logical and consistent with what is envisaged, in particular, as a ban on thermal cars on European territory. Before prohibiting the sale of these products, as well as prohibiting upstream advertising. This is my personal position. I would point out that in the context of climate governance, the proposal is on the table and I am working on it with my colleague in charge of the Economy. I am leading this discussion with him and we would like to involve our colleagues in charge of Consumer Protection, Mobility and Finance. The work is therefore under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and your frankness on the various questions I have asked you in this matter. Indeed, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, tomorrow's mobility will have to be decarbonized both in terms of energy production and in terms of the car fleet. This type of positive promotional message, combined with the last government agreement and injecting resources into the development of renewable energy, is, in my view, a first step in encouraging the owners of new vehicles to turn to a more environmentally friendly mobility and, as I said, to a better mobility for health in some cases. My group will not hesitate to go in the direction of this idea that emanates in France. We will shortly be making a motion for a resolution in order to oblige the dissemination of this kind of message – especially advertisements of thermal motor vehicles. We will bring this matter to life in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u35	Mr. Malik Ben Achour is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, Heads of State, Ministers of the Environment and other representatives of 175 nations approved, at the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA-5), a historic resolution to put an end to plastic pollution and to draw up a legally binding international agreement by 2024. The resolution covers the entire life cycle of the plastic, including its production, design and disposal. This decision comes at a time when the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) recently released a report on the use of plastic in the world. This report shows that 460 million tonnes of plastics were produced in 2019 worldwide, generating 353 million tonnes of waste, of which less than 10% are currently recycled and 22% abandoned in wild landfills, burned open or released into the environment. The report further recalls, if necessary, that the carbon footprint of plastics is important and contributes to 3.4% of global greenhouse gas emissions throughout their life cycle. In 2019, plastics generated 1.8 billion tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, 90% of which come from their production and conversion from fossil fuels. To this, we know that concern for fauna, flora and human health must be added. Indeed, it is known that there are many endocrine disruptors in plastics, which are known to have health effects. This aspect is well documented in the NAPED that you coordinate. In view of this, we can only welcome the decision taken at UNEA-5. However, I have several questions. So to what extent can we expect a treaty within the announced 2024 deadline? What role did Belgium play in the outcome of the resolution? What objectives will Belgium pursue in the negotiations? Does this perspective allow Belgium to move faster on the restriction of single-use plastics? We know you're working on it, but it's very complicated. Finally, what level of ambition can we expect at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u37	Madam Secretary, there is more and more attention to plastic pollution worldwide, fortunately. Apparently, at the fifth session of the UN Environment Ministers, a groundbreaking resolution was adopted on the reduction of plastic pollution, pollution from certain chemicals and the development of naturally based solutions. In line with the resolution, a legally binding instrument would be developed. As regards nature-based solutions, you would point out that a solid, common definition and a common framework have now been adopted, recognising the need to protect, maintain, restore, use and manage terrestrial and marine ecosystems in a sustainable way. The EU has also achieved a series of commitments in the field of chemicals and waste. These include a joint evaluation of the UN Environment Programme and the WHO in the field of hormone disrupters. In what sense has Belgium played an important role in these dossiers in achieving the agreed level of ambition? What are the commitments to offer options on how to address the problem of asbestos products in the environment? In what sense did Belgium support the co-sponsorship of the resolution at issue by the EU and can you explain it to the intergovernmental panel to be set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u38	Mr. President, Minister, the Fifth United Nations Environment Assembly has been taking place recently. Three major texts were adopted. One of these concerns the reduction of plastic pollution, chemicals and waste, and the development of "nature-based" solutions. In addition, a strong, common definition and framework of nature-based solutions recognizing the need to protect, conserve, restore, sustainably use and manage terrestrial and marine ecosystems was adopted. Finally, a series of commitments on chemicals and waste were obtained. Minister, in concrete terms, what progress has the United Nations Environment Assembly made for our country? What objectives do you want to highlight? What is the timetable for their implementation? What cooperation will be planned with your regional colleagues? What method will be used to coordinate actions with federated entities? How will the coordination of European countries be ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u39	Madam Minister, we, as ecologists, naturally like historic resolutions with high ambitions, but on the next step, the negotiations, we will have to live up to it. In these times, very high ambitions are incredibly important. Given the current raw materials crisis without previous ones, it is extremely important that we use raw materials for which they are absolutely necessary. If there are alternatives, we cannot use oil. I am thinking of the plastic tray, which is only used once. The proof on the pudding is in the eating . Now the great work will begin and now the lobbyists will begin. I have great expectations, but also a few specific questions for you. What specific ambitions and measures will you defend for our country during the negotiations? For what measures will you defend that they should be binding? Colleagues have already asked about cooperation. What's she like? How will you ensure that the treaty is fair and also provides for measures for those countries that are currently most affected by global plastic pollution?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u40	UNEA-5 has indeed produced several important results. Resolutions were adopted on the reduction of plastic pollution, chemicals and waste and the development of so-called nature-based solutions. With regard to the resolution on chemicals, Belgium has included concrete proposals on asbestos contaminants in products and the environment, endocrine disruptors and pesticides. UNEA explicitly requests the Executive Director of UNEP, in cooperation with WHO, to present to UNEA-6 in February 2024, "a full range of options to address asbestos contaminants in products and the environment". I supported the French Presidency of the Council of the Union and the European Commission in the negotiation process in Nairobi. Without the determination of the Belgian experts, whom I wish to stress here, this proposal would not be translated into action today. I am all the more pleased to say that merit is really the responsibility of our negotiators' expertise. Belgium, like the rest of the European Union, supported from the outset the proposal advocated by Switzerland, in particular, to establish a panel of independent experts to contribute more to the sound management of chemicals and waste and to pollution prevention. This panel, such as the IPCC for the climate and IPbes for biodiversity, will be an important key element in the science-based approach to the triple planetary crisis. The ambition set out in the resolution is for this intergovernmental panel to be established by 2024. Furthermore, the definition in the resolution on nature-based solutions means that the concept, which is increasingly being put forward as a solution, can also be properly used in other processes and that we can avoid greenwashing through that concept. The resolution on the international negotiating committee on plastic pollution is a milestone in the fight against plastic pollution. It is feared that by 2025 no less than 150 million tonnes of waste, including plastic, will float in the oceans and that by 2050 the weight of plastic in the ocean will exceed the weight of fish. Plastic, litter and microplastics are not only a threat to marine ecosystems. Because microplastics enter our food chain, they can also pose a danger to human health. Ms. de Laveleye pointed out that. The issue of a legally binding tool was a central point in the order of business and our priority. I am pleased that its principle has been established and that the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee has a strong mandate to carry out its work. In accordance with the decision adopted, the Executive Director of UNEP will have to convene an ad hoc open-ended working group to hold a meeting in the first half of 2022 to discuss the schedule and order of work of INSEE. The ambition is to complete this work by the end of 2024. The magnitude of the problem does not allow us to waste more time. To ensure its success, a sufficient number of INSEE meetings will have to be set by the ad hoc working group. Belgium's position will, as usual, pass through European diplomatic channels. We will continue to contribute constructively and ambitiously to the development of this positioning and will insist that Europe commit the necessary means to ensure the success of INSEE. It is necessary both to take further steps in European policy on plastic pollution and to develop an orchestrated approach at international level to help those countries which suffer most from plastic pollution. A necessary upstream consultation will take place at European level between the experts concerned. INSEE's mandate goes, as we wanted, beyond marine litter. It covers plastic pollution in general and the entire life cycle of plastics. It includes provisions to promote sustainable consumption and production patterns, the sustainable design of products and materials and the circular economy, aspects on which we will ensure a high level of ambition. Belgium is already taking a lot of action on this by transposing the European sub-directive, the federal circular economy action plan or the federal marine litter action plan. As regards the restriction of single-use plastics, the royal decree was published on 17 January 2022, and we are preparing a second royal decree on the basis of a thorough consultation of the sector. This is one of the actions of the Federal Circular Economy Plan, specifically measure six, to eliminate certain single-use products and to promote reusable alternatives that ensure a reduction in the impact of these products on the environment and health, based on a life-cycle analysis. This resolution will certainly help Belgium to take responsible decisions. The commitment of the international community is already moving in the right direction. Cooperation and coordination with the regions and the EU on this theme will take place through the regular channels and consultation forums. With regard to your questions relating to the marine environment, I invite you to ask my colleague Minister Van Quickenborne, who is responsible for this competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u41	That was done this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. We imagine that Mr. Van Quickenborne will return at least once again to committee before the end of the legislature. Madam Minister, we are not always proud of what we are able to put in place, but if Belgium and Europe have played the role you describe to us today, let us be proud and happy with what has been achieved. You're talking about the first half of 2022, very soon. The year 2024 is tomorrow! I hope that the weight of the lobbies, who will also start to push their priorities forward, will not delay the work and will not diminish your ambitions. You do well to recall that, in the Belgian plans, we have already envisaged it and that you are currently working on a new royal decree to go further than the minimum required by the European single-use plastic directive. I know it's difficult and I really hope that this new United Nations dynamic will bring everyone into the plastic transition boat. We are waiting very soon for results at both the federal and the United Nations levels. So we will come back to that very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u43	Madam Minister, it is, of course, a step forward that there is very great attention at UN level to the problem of plastic, which no one will deny anymore, and that needs to be addressed. You have developed many initiatives in this area, both for the future and in the recent past. In any case, that sector exists and should be able to participate in this story. I hope that sustainability in the sector will also be promoted in various areas. Mr Senesael's proposals on packaging, of which the PFAS issue is an example, are proposals for which industry must evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. The overall theme of the fifth session of the United Nations Environment Assembly was "strengthening actions for nature and achieving sustainable development goals". In particular, the resolution on plastic pollution has been adopted and should lead to a draft binding global agreement that will define various alternatives to deal with the complete life cycle of plastics. You have made clear the major role that our country played in this House. It is also essential for our country to ensure efficient cooperation with our federated entities. For this, it is important to define a working method in order to ensure a high degree of efficiency. I will certainly come back to you in order to know the state of play of the objectives set out at the Assembly in Nairobi.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u45	Thank you for your precise answer, Madam Secretary. It's super good news that this will happen by 2024. Remember how long we have spent on the REACH regulation. It started in the year in which my son was born. He'll be mature by the time we see the first results. The fact that this will happen in the short term is very good news. I believe that we should take the principle that what is not placed on the market should not be recycled either. The circular economy is good, but products that are not placed on the market do not cause problems either. These will not end up in the sea. The fact that negotiations and cooperation are taking place at global level creates an excellent opportunity to sit at the table together and jump over our shadows. We have seen in the past that European directives and agreements left loopholes and possibilities for derogations open, which means that countries do not take European legislation so closely. We must learn from this that we can make great strides forward by 2024. We're counting on you to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u46	Madam Minister, if I may add a few words, I do not know if you know the initiative "The Ocean Cleanup", by Boyan Slat, a young Dutchman. Resolutions are good, but actions are even better. Perhaps the House will be interested in meeting him? Since I'm in contact with him, I can get him here one day. For the past nine years, he has been developing technologies to take over all the plastic that is at sea and recycle it. It also seems to me important that we focus on corrective initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u47	Mr President, I did not know that it was customary to speak again if there is no topical debate, but I am learning. The Minister was just about to make the point that we need to prevent it from getting into the sea. Your suggestion is valuable, but it does not really matter here, because we want to prevent it from getting into the sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u48	I'm just saying, for whoever's ever been through it between a sea of plastic bottles, I'm gonna have to go to a nice location.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u49	Madam Minister, last week you called on the Regions to oppose the inclusion of gas and nuclear energy in European taxonomy. The European Commission's proposal to include gas and nuclear activities in the review of economic activities that can be considered sustainable, under certain conditions, in order to attract private investment is important. After all, taxonomy is one of the instruments that the European Union must help to become climate neutral. It is a so-called delegated act. This means that the proposal will automatically enter into force and will apply from 1 January 2023 if the European Parliament or the EU Member States do not raise any formal objections. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. You say that it was never intended to include in taxonomy all the activities that could be useful or important for the transition, but on the contrary it was designed to give direction to sustainable financing, to be steering. As with any other European dossier, the Federal Government and the Regions must discuss the official Belgian position. You said that the positions would be determined at this time of year. Several questions have already been put to Mr Van Peteghem here in Parliament on this matter, because in the end it is in his cabinet. However, Madam Minister, when you make such a statement, it is normal that we should ask you here. When exactly did the federal government determine the federal position on this delegated act? Was there agreement within the federal government on your vision and is your view therefore also the government's official position? How do you motivate your position in the context of the growing concern about greater energy independence, where the future should ultimately lie in carbon-free energy production and where nuclear production can also play an important role?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u50	Mr Ravyts, just to be clear, not I, but my federal colleagues have called for a vote against the delegated act. In some press articles this was misrepresented. Mr Van Peteghem is in charge of the discussions on this dossier. The usual procedure was followed. No agreement was found at the level of the DGE. Our country had therefore to decide that no Belgian position could be communicated to the European Commission. You asked how this position is consistent with the growing concern about greater energy independence. Your question already contains part of the answer. European taxonomy aims to create a classification system for ecological, sustainable and economic activities. The aim was to help the EU scale up sustainable investment and implement the European Green Deal. EU taxonomy would provide businesses, investors and policy makers with appropriate definitions for which economic activities could be considered ecological and sustainable. This should provide certainty for investors, protect private investors from greenwashing, help companies become climate-friendly, reduce market fragmentation and help investments move to where they are most needed. As I said, it was never the intention of taxonomy to include all activities that could be useful or useful in the transition, let alone to call activities that harm the environment green or sustainable. The delegated act for adoption today directly contradicts the technical criteria already adopted to draw up that list. The inclusion of gas and nuclear activities undermines the credibility and usability of this instrument as a guide to sustainable investment. Institutional investors criticise the proposal which is less stringent than the criteria of the European Investment Bank and loses its usefulness as a guide. For our part, we are convinced that the transition of the energy system requires other additional instruments and sources of funding. However, all this should not be regulated in taxonomy sustainable investment as a framework for investors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u51	Madam Minister, you have rightly corrected that you have called on your federal colleagues to oppose the admission, but, if I understand correctly, there is now an official Belgian position, namely that there is no position. That may have been discussed at the Council of Ministers on Friday because you made that call on Wednesday 16 March. It's hard for you to make a call for something that's already passed. Or you mean to vote against further in the proceedings. I cannot ask a second question, but this has yet to be clarified. We can discuss the environmental sustainability of nuclear energy for a long time. You have your opinion and the others have another opinion, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u52	Madam Minister, I would like to return once again to the export of banned pesticides at European level. As a reminder, several reports show that Europe – together with Belgium in the lead – exports very large quantities of pesticides whose use is banned in Europe, because they are too dangerous for biodiversity or for our health. In my first question from November 2020 – you had barely taken office – you said you supported all the measures proposed by the European Commission to ban production for the export of chemicals to Europe whose use is not authorised, by 2023 because Europe is working on them. You also proposed to supplement the European directives through the work of CIMES. I came back in October 2021, following a new report. You then said that you were going to study the possibilities of moving forward at the Belgian level and have asked your administration for an analysis in this direction, which you were waiting for by February 2022. Minister, have you received a note from your administration? If so, what are the paths you plan to follow at this stage? Why does the export ban not appear in NAPAN? There was recently a public consultation on this – it ended on Sunday. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u53	Mrs de Laveleye, Belgium is indeed one of those European countries that exports the most banned chemicals to the European Union outside the European Union because of their impact on health and the environment. The Union shall prohibit the placing on the market of these products, but not production or export. The Rotterdam Convention obliges exporters to inform importing States of the presence of dangerous substances. There are rounds of negotiations on the lists of substances subject to this Convention. The situation you describe, in addition to being ethically and morally unbearable, leads to market discord, unfair competition from third countries that may use certain chemicals, and a boomerang effect by the presence of residues of these banned chemicals in finished products imported into the Union. In general, this reinforces health and environmental standards for application in Europe. This is a problem that has been denounced for a long time and on several occasions in the press. Aware of this paradox, the Commission stated in the conclusions of its European strategy for the sustainability of chemicals: "EU will lead by example, and, in line with international commits, ensure that hazardous chemicals coupled in the European Union are not produced for export, including by amending legislation if and as required." However, in addition to this statement of principle, no concrete proposals have been put on the table so far. That is why I have asked my administration to analyse the legal feasibility for my government to adopt a legal standard prohibiting the export of chemicals whose placing on the market and/or use has been prohibited at European Union level on the basis of health or environmental considerations. Recently, I have received the legal study on the possibilities of action available to us to ban the export of chemicals banned for health or environmental reasons at the national level. It is clear from this study that we can move forward on a ban without waiting for the European Union and that the law on product standards can be the legal basis for a royal decree or any other legislative act. This prohibition would be justified on the basis of a criterion for preserving health beyond Belgian borders. But you know that I also prefer the One World approach, One Health. I have therefore asked to complete the argument of a ban on the environmental basis. Since the government agreement does not deal specifically with this subject, I must now move forward in consultation with my partners to agree on the prohibition strategy. I had already informed my colleagues responsible for health and the economy of this study. I now plan to inform the whole government, but also to organise a workshop with all the stakeholders. This will allow us to reap the positions of federated entities, industry actors, NGOs and academic members. If so, I am in any case ready to move forward on a royal decree containing a list of substances to be banned and its annex with the criteria which guarantee its automatic application as regards future problematic substances. Please note that France has already implemented a similar measure. With regard to NAPAN, it is indeed essential for the reduction of authorised plant protection products at European level. However, the measure referred to here concerns chemicals banned at European level and this plan was not considered to be an adequate tool for implementing the measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We have concrete prospects. You say that there is no legal blockage preventing us from moving forward at Belgian level. The Product Standards Act allows us to do so on the basis of health. I also hear you're planning to take a royal order, but you're going to organize a workshop in advance. This is a completely logical way of doing things. But we already know what's going to happen. We know those who are going to ask you not to take this order and those who are going to ask you to take it. I hope you stay in your position. Indeed, it is ethically and morally unbearable – I repeat your comments – to export pesticides that are considered bad for health and biodiversity. I hope you will succeed. You say we need to talk to the majority partners. If we can help in any way, we are at your service.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u55	Madam Secretary, you have a busy European programme. You are therefore not often in Belgium. On 17 March 2022 the EU's Regular Environment Council took place. The agenda included an agreement on a general approach to the new regulation on batteries and waste batteries. There was also a policy debate on the planning of five Fit for 55 dossiers under the responsibility of the Environment Council. These include the review of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the revision of the Effort Sharing Regulation, the revision of the Land Use Regulation, land use change and forestry, the review of CO2 emission standards for cars and vans and the establishment of the announced social climate fund. The third issue was the proposal already discussed to reduce deforestation and forest degradation. Can you report on the results of these discussions on the three themes I have mentioned? Have the changed geopolitical context with a European energy price crisis and the European Commission's Communication REPowerEU of 8 March 2022 had an impact on the discussions of the Fit for 55 files? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u56	Madam President, on 17 March, the European Environment and Climate Ministers had the opportunity to address several major issues in the context of the ecological and digital transition. As you know, regional ministers represent us in turn. It was the Walloon Minister, Mrs Tellier, who took a stand for Belgium. The first point raised at this Council was indeed the Fit for 55 package, and in particular the scheme for emissions trading for the construction and road transport sectors, as well as the Social Climate Fund proposed by the European Commission. The Fit for 55 package now focuses on issues of resilience and security. It must not only achieve the 55% emission reduction target by 2030, but also be used to support the EU's reduced energy dependence. Belgium supported the acceleration of the transition and the adoption of strong and ambitious policies and measures at Union level, combined with strengthened and robust flexibility mechanisms. We reiterated our concerns about the socio-economic impacts of an emission allowance system applied to the road transport and construction sector. Belgium reiterated its support for ambitious CO2 standards and standards for light-duty cars and vehicles, including a phase-out of thermal vehicles in 2030 instead of 2035, as proposed by the European Commission. Therefore, we have indicated that it is absolutely necessary to take into account the social impacts of this proposal by exploring avenues such as predictability and price fluctuation, or a gradual introduction of this system for individuals. Finally, Belgium mentioned that the incomes of such a system should, where appropriate, benefit substantially the most vulnerable through social climate policies and by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in the transition. With regard to the Social Climate Fund, Belgium indicated its support for an inclusive green transition that leaves no one on the roadside. Therefore, if a system of emission allowances applied to the road transport and building sector were to enter into force, the most vulnerable people in our society will need to have adequate tools to deal with the impacts of this system. This also includes gender mainstreaming and social inclusion, as it should be borne in mind that women account for 85 per cent of single-parent families and are more at risk in terms of poverty and child poverty. They could be particularly affected by carbon pricing measures. This is also the case for people with disabilities, 87 million of whom live in private homes within the European Union. Ministers had the opportunity to discuss the greening of the European Semester, stressing the need to integrate the challenges of the transition. Belgium recalled that the No One Left Behind principle must be at the heart of European policies. Belgium also stresses the importance of monitoring and integrating the indicators developed under the 8th Environmental Action Programme and the Sustainable Development Goals. At this Council meeting, the compromise position on the regulation on batteries and battery waste was adopted unanimously. The French Presidency thus has a general orientation enabling it to enter into interinstitutional negotiations with a strong mandate. On the whole, we can also satisfy ourselves with this text, which carries innovative and ambitious requirements ensuring a real ecological and digital transition in the battery life cycle. We have succeeded in including in the scope of the regulation a new category of batteries: light transport batteries. For example, we ensure that the batteries of our electric bicycles, e-scooters or scooters meet the strict requirements in terms of carbon footprint, recycled content, duty of care, performance and life, but also in terms of providing information to consumers via e-ticketing, marketing and QR code. The battery label gives us access to information such as the carbon footprint performance class, the recycled content, the guaranteed origin of critical materials in the battery and the measures taken to address environmental and social risks, the content of hazardous substances, the expected performance and the lifetime of each battery. The battery passport is the first application of the concept of product passport in production legislation. In conjunction with the electronic exchange of information, it will contain essential information to enable all actors in the battery value chain to make informed choices and to give spent batteries a second life. As you will understand, I am relatively satisfied with this first instrument implementing the Green Pact for Europe, the new plan for the circular economy. However, I regret that I have not been able to reach two specific points, but I am confident that they will be discussed during the trialogues. On the one hand, the aim is not to duplicate or separate the risk management of chemicals and, on the other hand, the performance, safety and high quality requirements to be imposed on batteries exported outside the EU. The negotiations with the European Parliament will be an opportunity for us to reaffirm these two points, which are of fundamental importance to us. As regards the non-duplication of the REACH process for batteries and therefore the creation of a mechanism to restrict substances specific to batteries, it seems to me necessary to have this debate at the highest level, with the European Parliament. Do we want to make REACH regulations more specific as soon as we identify a fundamental path for our green transition, strategic autonomy and European economy? This does not seem to me to be the most appropriate approach, nor the most transparent, and it risks undermining an exemplary regulation at the global level. Despite these points still to be worn and defended in a trialogue, we have managed to integrate some safeguards, ensuring that securitization is limited and that everything is done to avoid inconsistencies as far as possible. With regard to exports outside the EU, I reiterate my willingness to fight double standards as much as possible. What we impose on our batteries manufactured or imported here in Europe, we must also promote it outside the EU. This refers us to the previous debate. I have thus mandated my administration to work on a proposal which could benefit from the accession of the other Member States. We want to ensure that European products exported are a guarantee of high quality, safety, performance and sustainability for all. Trade is also an instrument to promote our values in terms of high environmental and health protection. This legislation will also provide a clear framework for investing in this growing major sector, which will amount to no less than EUR 250 billion by 2030. As regards the proposal for a regulation to reduce the risk of deforestation and degradation associated with products placed on the European market, it is still in its early stages of discussion in the Council of Parliament. Negotiations within the Council will start at the beginning of April and will certainly enable us to take a position on the whole text, in particular on the definitions of deforestation and forest degradation as well as on the due diligence instrument due diligence and the associated traceability elements. In any case, this is a matter which I am very careful about and for which I wish the greatest ambition to be devoted. The legislative proposal is crucial in the transition to sustainable production and consumption systems and will contribute significantly to the global fight against climate change and biodiversity loss. The issue of the REACH restriction on PFAS was not discussed in this Council, but the revision of the annexes to the Regulation on Persistent Organic Pollutants was addressed. It is a very technical review aimed at introducing new substances and corresponding concentration thresholds in order to optimise the management of the waste that these substances may contain. The Regions are pioneers in this discussion, as part of their competences related to the ecological management of waste. Finally, Belgium welcomed the Commission's proposal and supported the French Presidency in continuing the process of criminalising ecocide. This dossier is a priority for me, and I therefore appeal to my fellow European ministers to unite us around the inclusion of ecocide in the Rome Statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I think it is a good thing that we regularly ask you about this Environment Council, even if it is a turn-over. I also welcome the first part of your speech, of course. You have been aware of this for some time now, but it seems that it has been understood at EU level that the transition must be a social transition. I have often heard the description socioux and that is of course a good evolution. We will see whether this can be achieved in the following years. After all, you said it yourself, there is a great deal to decide and ensure about the impact of the allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you. The environmental impact of the production of electric batteries is a problem that my group and I are following very closely. The issue of the environmental and climate impacts of digital equipment was also the subject of a motion for a resolution by my excellent colleague Daniel Senesael last June, along with other eco-socialist colleagues. We will not fail to be attentive to these different subjects, O! How important for us and you will support Belgium's positions for future meetings with your European counterparts.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u59	Madam President, you have put that very well in Dutch. Madam Secretary, we had a hearing last week on the NAPAN, which was subject to public consultation. Mr de Laveleye and I had a lot of substantive objections, but also concerns about the way in which the public consultation takes place. The threshold for participation is very high. In that search we came to the National Action Plan against the invasive exotics. I'm very interested in that plan. After all, once those invasive exotics are here, it's very difficult to get them out. Pesticides are very often used for this purpose. It is also suggested that we can only use pesticides to control these invasive exotics. It's very important that the plan is there. Before we started with Vivaldi, I had asked a lot of questions about a number of invasive exotics with which gardeners have a lot of trouble. So it could take my attention away. I particularly have questions about the procedure. There is now a public consultation until 29 April 2022. My questions are mainly about how and through which channels this public consultation is disseminated. How is cooperation under that plan and in the context of the public consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u60	Madam President, Ms Creemers, at the federal level, the public consultation on the draft national action plan was organised in accordance with the law of 13 February 2006. In concrete terms, the information on the holding of a public consultation on the national action plan was published in the following ways: by a notice in the Belgian Official Journal, published on 14 February 2022, via the federal portal www.belgium.be, via the national portal www.aarhus.be and via the website of the Federal Public Health Service, Food Chain Safety and the Environment www.consult-leefenvironment.be for Dutch and www.consult-environnement.be for French. On these websites a link has been placed to the regional public consultation. The public consultation was also announced through the social media channels of BeBiodiversity, the FPS and the National Scientific Secretariat. These channels are complementary to the channels provided for in the 2006 Law. The draft plan was drawn up in the framework of the cooperation agreement of 30 January 2019 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the prevention and control of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. More specifically, and in accordance with Articles 39 to 41, the National Scientific Secretariat for invasive alien species has organised coordination with the federal and environmental administrations through the National Committee for Invasive Alien Species. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Environment of 1 February 2022 approved the draft plan and decided that the plan, whether modified after the public consultation or not, should be submitted to the ICL for final approval by the end of June 2022 at the latest. The public input will be analysed by the National Scientific Secretariat and the National Committee for Invasive Alien Species.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u61	Madam Minister, that is a whole list of possibilities that we could know about. However, I think it is a good idea to communicate proactively with a number of associations in the context of other public consultations. In this respect, I am thinking on the Flemish side of Natuurpunt, which has already built up quite a lot of expertise, and on Velt, where I myself have worked. These associations often have people who are concerned about the subject and they are very anxious to give their opinion. Often these associations are involved in the construction of a plan, but the members of such organisations are happy to be informed. Around the NAPAN and NAPED I myself made the communication with those supporters and I always received very positive reactions, as the Members are usually not aware, but it is nice to be able to make use of democracy in this way. It is not a criticism, rather a suggestion to deal with it in this way in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u62	Madam Secretary, the Aldi and the Lidl are being bought out and oil and flour are being hoarded. We saw that at the beginning of the corona crisis. Before that, it was ago from the Gulf War. There is general concern and concern about food stocks. Where I spontaneously look in the short chain, others appear to be lobbying at a very high level to put our European goals in the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork just on hold or to weaken, while we have had to work for a long time to see such ambitious goals finally implemented. I read another article in De Morgen today that mapped out these lobby flows. We must be very aware of that. I know that Farm to Fork and the Green Deal at federal level are shared responsibilities, so we will certainly ask this question to your colleagues as well. We are currently concerned in history about food flows, but also about raw materials, which we have just discussed in the debate on plastic. I'm worried about where we're going and what choices we're making right now. Never waste a good crisis . We must now decide to implement the Farm to Fork strategy and the Green Deal even more ambitious than before, instead of importing it from and exporting it to the other side of the world. I am probably very surprised with you about the lobby flows that are coming in and what is being pulled out of the closet to weaken those strategies. I have just heard in the debate on plastic that we are going by nature based solutions and that ambitious targets are being set. I don't understand why we would weaken the one here, where we've just started the performance. What is your position on this? How can you ensure that the Farm to Fork strategy and the Green Deal remain ambitious over the next few months and that perhaps even a little bit more is being done?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u63	Mrs Creemers, you are making a very important point here. Indeed, the war in Ukraine has a major impact on both food security and food prices in Belgium, Europe and the rest of the world. This food crisis may last for months to come. You are right, we need to take measures to deal with this shock. I, too, have heard from different levels and from different angles the call for environmental ambitions to be included in the Green Deal, more specifically the "farmer-to-board" strategy, to be weakened in the light of this crisis. I will be clear, my position on this is that Belgium must defend and respect the ambitions expressed in the "from farmer to board" strategy. Together with my colleague Céline Tellier, I have sent a letter to the Commission containing the following contents. Reducing parts of our food production within the European Union is important for both food security and the environment. For me, as for you, this crisis is just the signal that we need to accelerate the transition to a resilient and sustainable agricultural system. Imports of agricultural products from Ukraine and Russia mainly concern animal feed in the EU. The EU should use these supply shocks to lead the transition from intensive livestock farming and agriculture to a sustainable, relocalised and resilient food system in the European Union. Reducing our ambition to reduce pesticides and no longer protecting valuable natural areas with rich biodiversity would increase the risk of the collapse of our ecosystem. The further depletion of this agricultural land, through the re-opening of unsustainable farming practices, will only reduce the long-term productivity of European agriculture. Let this be the worst threat to our present socio-ecological stability and our food security, especially to those of future generations. From the point of view of a fair transition, I am deeply concerned that the current price increases threaten the most vulnerable, both agricultural and horticultural, as well as consumers. We must also be very aware that this food crisis will be felt all over the world. Many countries, mainly in the global South, were already struggling for this food crisis with a high level of food insecurity. This crisis will exacerbate the situation there. I will argue within Belgium to investigate whether we can give additional support to international initiatives against hunger in the light of this crisis. Global food systems will continue to be plagued by crisis and uncertainties over the coming years and decades. By acting responsibly now, Europe can become resilient and be in a good position to cope with potential future crises. The experts in my administration and cabinet are following developments on this dossier very closely. In cooperation with the other competent federal and regional ministers, we will determine the Belgian position in this regard. During these position clauses, I will continue to stress that environmental and climate concessions are not acceptable. I will also argue that, in the light of this crisis, we should show solidarity to all those affected by this crisis, both inside and outside the borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u64	Madam Secretary, I think you are right to make a point. It is indeed a long-term vision. In the long term, we absolutely need that Green Deal and Farm to Fork strategy, if we want to be able to do agriculture here at all. What I often hear in discussions when it comes to our food and the food we produce ourselves is that people want to use short-chain initiatives, but that the products are too expensive. Very often I reply that the other products we import from low-wage countries are too cheap. We must give farmers a fair price, and that was just the strength of this Farm to Fork strategy, so that they can use a sustainable method. In order to compensate for this, we must not use pesticides more, but we must organise more action against food waste. We just need to eat more seasonal and more vegetable proteins. The solutions we need now are all in the Farm to Fork strategy. It would be absolutely wrong, therefore, and before that we stand with you on the barricades so that we can now go back to the recipes of the 1990s, which we have seen did not work. We have to go to the recipes of the 20s that we know will work.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u65	Question No 55026302C by Mrs Mélissa Hanus is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u66	Russia's criminal war in Ukraine has awakened the whole of Europe, not only because of the challenges of international security, but also because of the consequences of our dependence on fossil fuels. While action is primarily aimed at reducing Russia's dependence, the demand for fossil fuels in general also arises in our energy mix, all the more so in the light of the enormous climate challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u67	Following the European Summit in Versailles, the European Commission issued the memo REPowerEU, with the aim of importing two thirds less Russian gas within a year. Firstly, we want to speed up the Green Deal and put a turbo on plans for renovation, energy efficiency and renewable energy. Secondly, alternative sources of gas supply are considered, with a key role for LNG. The Versailles Summit gave the European Commission the green light to draw up these proposals in May. The question arises as to what trend it will take. Are we actually finally moving towards an acceleration of the energy transition or will we simply replace Russian fossil gas with non-Russian fossil gas? What will Belgium advocate? In Belgium, the Minister for Energy put on the table a package of measures to accelerate the energy transition, in exchange for an incomplete core exit, in the light of the geopolitical situation. The plan was presented in the press as a fossil phasing-out plan. Critics noted, however, that the proposed annual phasing-out hardly brings us close to the objective of the Green Deal, which in itself is far too low. In the end, only one piece of the proposals reached the final agreement. When will the government finally draw up a serious plan for a fossil trip, with binding standards for large polluters and sufficient investment to bring our greenhouse gas emissions down in a socially equitable way quickly enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u68	Mrs Daems, climate policy is, to a large extent, a regional competence in this context. The regions are responsible for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy saving, for example in buildings and road transport. The powers of the federal government are limited, but the last week has taken another step to fill them in as much as possible. Keeping two nuclear power plants open and the accelerated development of renewable energy at sea, in public buildings and near airports and military areas will mean that gas plants will have to run much less. Transport emissions aim to further reduce the federal government by investing another 15 million euros in rail freight transport. In addition, we will make mopeds and vans emission-free faster. This saves on petrol and diesel. For buildings there will be 6 % VAT on solar panels, heat pumps, solar boilers and demolition & reconstruction. Together with the regional measures, this will save more natural gas and fuel oil for heating buildings. There is also EUR 57 million for preventive social energy policy to get the target group off fossil fuels as quickly as possible, so that we need less support through the price. The pension funds and FPIM must become fossil free faster. This is just a selection from the long list of measures. It is too early to calculate the exact impact, but the first progress report of climate governance, which will be published in the summer, will already contain more concrete figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u69	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but you did not answer my questions about the European level. It is clear that we must now radically reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. For example, we find Putin where it hurts and we do the much needed to limit global warming to 1.5 °C. It would be a wrong choice to replace all our Russian fossil imports by fossil imports from non-Russian multinationals, including extremely risky sources such as shale gas, tar sand oil and oil from under the North Pole. That is why we absolutely need to think in the long term and not create lock-ins of fossil fuels from crisis management, which means that we have to rely on them for decades to come. Investing in additional fossil infrastructure such as LNG terminals is a bad idea. Instead, we need an acceleration of the energy transition, with public investment, binding emission standards to generate private investment, and a clear plan to reduce our use of fossil energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u70	Madam Secretary, on October 8th last year, you launched the Federal Climate Route Plan. With this, you want to align the federal emission reduction with the increased climate target imposed by Belgium on Europe and to install a federal climate governance. Although you are constantly boasting of transparency in words, you have not been in action with regard to that federal climate route plan. After all, that plan is based on roadmaps. You asked the various ministers to draw them up. In order to be able to analyse and evaluate the plan on its merits, Parliament must be able to see these roadmaps, but you are refusing to deliver them. On my first written question I received the general summary of the plan, which was already on your website, and my second question, in which I specifically asked about the roadmaps, was declared inadmissible. The good news is that not all of your fellow Members attach so little importance to transparency. Since you think every minister should be climate minister, I have taken the liberty of asking them for the roadmaps for what they are responsible for. Except for Minister Van Peteghem, they've all delivered me their roadmaps. How long are you going to wait to deliver your roadmaps to Parliament? As far as the content is concerned, it was immediately clear that the targets of additional emissions reduction that the plan aims to achieve are not based on any decent ex ante calculation. Only a small minority of these road maps contain such a calculation. Also the necessary budgets are hardly foreseen, sometimes they are not even calculated yet. Often the objective of the roadmap is even made dependent on the budgets that can be found, or the implementation of the roadmap is postponed due to a lack of budget. Finally, the measures themselves are largely a collection of measures already planned and there is little new policy that could lead to additional emissions reductions. That is, to say the least, not what the people expect from the greenest government ever. When does the government come up with a seriously quantified climate plan, in line with the challenges and with sufficient budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u71	As regards transparency, Mrs Daems stated in the memorandum to the Council of Ministers of 8 October that a report containing a summary of the progress reports for each roadmap will be sent to Parliament each year and will be made public. As announced earlier, the first report is expected this summer. As the roadmaps are the responsibility of each minister, it was indeed logical to ask each minister directly about the roadmaps you wished to receive. I am not surprised at the large number of positive reactions you have received at your request. Unlike the other ministers, I have received no request from you to obtain the roadmaps for which I am responsible. There's no other reason why she didn't see you. Although I have already described to you on several occasions the phasing-out and working methods of climate governance, you are once again getting everything mixed up in your question. On 14 July last year, we learned that the European Commission wants to increase its target for Belgium to a reduction of 47%. This objective has not yet been adopted for the sake of clarity, and our country will have to update its climate and energy plan by the summer of 2023 in order to clarify how the climate objectives will be achieved. However, I did not want to waste any time, which is why, in October of last year, I sent a signal to my federal colleagues that we should also make more federal efforts. In concrete terms, we want to look for 25 million tonnes of additional emission reductions for the period up to 2021-2030. Of course, they hadn't been found in the PAMs that premiered at the time. At that time, we adopted the objectives and approved a process to get there. This summer, based on independent expertise, we will for the first time have a view of the distance to the goal. This is well in time to adjust with additional policies for updating the federal section of the NEKP so that we contribute to a robust national plan to achieve that 47 percent reduction. In concrete terms, additional emissions will have to be sought mainly in taxation, as this is the most important federal competence in the buildings and transport sectors. The emission-free commercial vehicles will already give us about a third. With the agreement on the energy transition and the core exit, which was approved last week, we are accelerating again. Among other things, the reduced VAT arrangements for demolition and reconstruction, heat pumps and solar boilers, or the greening of vans and mopeds, show that the competent ministers, whenever they have the opportunity to do so, reinforce climate policy. As in the recovery plan, these measures are subject to very clear budgets. This summer, therefore, the roadmaps in the first public report will be more concrete. Thus, step by step, we will come to a government of climate ministers that is well over the bar. Everything points in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u72	Madam Secretary, your answer is very punitive. You claim that you did not receive a question from me when I asked you a question in writing twice. I even got an answer from you. Well, that's kind of weird, isn't it? I've already got 80 % of the roadmaps. It is therefore already clear that your plan is fundamentally inadequate. This is not due to a lack of public support. You launched your climate route plan daily for a major climate demonstration, where 50,000 people came out for a real Belgian climate plan. The Climate Coalition has written a memorandum containing concrete measures that should include such a plan. However, we find very little of that in your climate route plan. On 17 March, a broad civil society coalition launched a call for a real Marshall Plan for massive investment in a socially just climate policy. After all, the current energy crisis shows once again the need for it. This Friday, citizens and civil society will return to the streets for a global climate strike, for a socially just climate transition that recognises that climate struggle and class struggle go hand in hand. They do that because plans like yours show that the government has still not understood the message. A quantified plan with sufficient budgets is now needed to reduce our emissions to zero as quickly as possible. So we're gonna go out on the street on Friday and demand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u73	Madam Minister, my question about raw materials and an observatory investigating the flows and the price evolution of raw materials on the world market is, of course, not a coincidence. The international tensions with Ukraine's raid show that we urgently need to take into account the EU's extreme dependence on both fossil fuels and many critical raw materials. The energy transition is accompanied by the use of raw materials such as lithium, cobalt, nickel, copper, uranium or rare earth metals, all of which are very little or not available in Europe. The prices for these raw materials are rising today. At present, there is even an impact on the production of electric cars in certain parts of the world. You would ask the National Bank to make a diagnosis of the exposure to a lack of security of supply for critical resources, materials, products and components necessary for the transformation of our economy. Could you explain to us your plea for the specific observatory? How do you see that in concrete terms? How do you see the funding? In what sense are you addressing the European Commission for large-scale investment in the development of a circular economy? After all, you asked for this in the margins of the observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u74	Madam Minister, in December last year, together with the Minister of Economy, you launched a federal action plan for circular economy. The theme is very close to us because of the problems with raw materials, the lifespan and the waste of products in today's linear economy model. When you launched your plan, you promised to come into the plan in mid-February with a detailed timetable for the implementation of the various actions. Even the repair score would be there, but I haven't seen any of that, unless I'm wrong. Can you clarify the timing of the implementation of the plan or can you explain to me where and when we can expect more details? Have the work been delayed? If so, why? I have the same questions about the repair score. Everyone is aware that Russia's criminal war in Ukraine is driving the scarcity of raw materials. Consequently, raw material prices are higher than ever before. That is all the more painful because we need these raw materials for our energy transition. As at the European level, we see two opposing trends in Belgium to meet this challenge. On the one hand, the importance of the existing action plans for a more circular economy is stressed, and on the other hand, we see an eager study of new mining slopes. For example, there is a law in Belgium to regulate commercial deep-sea mining, hence my question. What path will Belgium take, the path of the extractivism of the past, with all the loss of biodiversity it will take, or that of the circularity of the future, in which our material consumption no longer affects the environment? In addition, you put a plan on the government table to create an observatory for material flows. When can we expect that and what budget do you think such an institution should receive? What action will be taken on the investigation of that observatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u75	Madam Minister, first of all, I hope that the term repairability index used in your plan for repair will be brainstormed, because it will not be far away from repairability index. The fact is that the government will largely copy France's system. That is fine, but perhaps we should also look at how France looks at the repair score. The consumer organisation HOP, which has now evaluated the system, notes that companies have to determine the score themselves and that there is sometimes too little distinction between the scores and also has questions as to how the score is determined. Sometimes one scores very badly on a particular part, but still a relatively high score is achieved. All these points are subject to more stringent conditions. Moreover, it appeared that 80% of the scores were higher than when the consumer organisation would determine the scores. Madam Secretary, will you take those pain points into our story and work out a better system with a better name than that in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the National Circular Economy Action Plan, the government prepared a more detailed planning in February 2022. 24 out of 25 measures will be launched by the end of 2022. For each measure, it is also indicated which specific product will be delivered, for example legislation or communication. Preparations have started to develop a recovery index or repair score. France already has a recovery index for a number of product groups. We want to learn from the French example and will look at the lessons from the recent evaluation in depth. In this way we want to implement an improved version in Belgium. With regard to the extraction of raw materials, it is absolutely important that we reduce the demand for new primary raw materials as much as possible. The circular economy action plan therefore provides for measures to extend the life of the products and to reduce disposables. Finally, I call for the creation of an observatory on raw materials, whose task is to monitor the evolution of raw materials flows and their prices. In doing so, we will examine the possibility of cooperation with other countries or with the European Commission. In the negotiations on an international treaty against plastic, I argued in Nairobi that measures should also be introduced to cover the whole life cycle of plastics.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We have not heard much concrete talk about the price observatory. The objectives were, of course, already known to us. You still have the opportunity to put things into practice. We'll follow up on that. As Mrs Daems said, it should be noted that some raw materials that are not present in Europe are very important for the energy transition you dreamed of and wanted. We will have to keep a very close eye on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow with great interest the implementation of the federal action plan on circular economy. In order to do this properly, we wish to have access to the planning. I am surprised that no such planning has been announced or made available. Furthermore, we are counting on an ambitious policy to eliminate the harmful way in which the capitalist system deals with materials. Removing the boundaries of extractivism with deep-sea mining is not a solution, on the contrary, which exacerbates the problem. We will therefore continue to oppose deep-sea mining and continue to work for a complete transition to the circular economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u79	Madam Secretary, I hear preparations have begun for the repair score. You say that the learning points will be examined thoroughly and that an improved version will be organised. That is a good thing and it corresponds to what we are asking. I do believe in such tools, but they only succeed if the consumer has a real benefit. The differences must be large enough so that they are sufficiently clear to the consumer and so that the consumer can make a good purchase on the basis of that information. I also think that the product bicycles should be added to the range of the repair score. In this sense, I have taken an initiative; so we will be able to discuss this later. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u80	Minister, on 8 March 2022, the European Commission published its communication on the REPowerEU strategy, which aims to reduce Europe's energy dependence on Russia before 2030 and, in particular, on Russian fossil fuels. Among the initiatives envisaged by the Commission are a review of the state aid rules for the emissions trading scheme and a strengthening of the measures proposed by the Fit for 55 package. Minister, can we get your feedback on these measures in relation to the topics dealt with in Fit for 55, as well as their overall impact on the implementation of the Green Deal? Moreover, several of these measures are particularly ambitious: doubling the objective of the biomethane package, 20.6 million tonnes of hydrogen renewable by 2030 compared to 5.6 in Fit for 55, accelerating the deployment of solar photovoltaic and wind systems, and raising energy efficiency targets for buildings. Can we obtain our country's position on this, as well as information on the timing of discussions at European level on this subject? Finally, while Russian gas accounts for only between 4 and 6 per cent of Belgium's gas imports, more than 40 per cent of the gas consumed in Europe comes from Russia. This justifies the need to work towards an acceleration towards the common sustainable transition. However, we know that our country is still heavily dependent on gas: in 2017, almost 47% of households were heated by natural gas and, in 2021, around 23% of Belgian electricity was produced by gas-fired power plants. At the same time, heating from sources other than gas and coal reached just 16% in 2017 and electricity generation from gas is expected to increase with the closure of nuclear reactors. Do you intend to defend at European level social measures to protect households that could be affected by the acceleration of the transition, for example, the creation of a dedicated fund or the strengthening of the social climate fund? Are there any discussions or are there any plans to discuss them?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u81	Mr Senesael, the measures proposed by the Commission in the framework of REPowerEU are essentially the responsibility of Energy. I would therefore ask you to ask my colleague Tinne Van der Straeten about biomethane, renewable hydrogen or renewable energy, but also about the link between Fit for 55, because the issues relating to renewable energy and energy conservation also fall within the competence of the Energy Ministers. As regards the social dimension, the proposal for a social fund is being monitored in the Environment Council and discussed at the last Council meeting on 17 March. Belgium has no position to date. Minister Henry stressed on behalf of Belgium that the social dimension is crucial for our country in the transition. More specifically, he highlighted the vulnerable position of single women too often facing energy poverty. Indeed, a single source of revenue is not enough, it is no longer sufficient to cover all costs. The gender dimension must therefore be integrated into the design of the social climate fund. If it is to be introduced, however, the Member States must not wait for Europe to implement a stronger social policy on energy and climate. We must now redouble our efforts to help vulnerable households and reduce the energy bill through structural interventions. This is primarily the responsibility of the Regions, but you know that last week the federal government also mobilised EUR 57 million for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u82	Minister, thank you for your response. I spent a lot of energy on nothing to question you, since it is to the Minister of Energy that I have to turn to. I thank you for the social aspect which is also of concern to you and for the follow-up you can give to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u83	Madam Secretary, from 20 to 25 March, it will be the international week for the recognition of ecocide as a crime. Many actions are also taking place in Belgium and at the end of the week the campaign joins the global climate strike. Ecocide is the equivalent of genocide, but for nature. In the middle of last year, an independent panel of international experts for amending the statutes of the International Criminal Court proposed that ecocide be defined as follows: "The conduct of unlawful or deliberate acts with the knowledge that there is a significant risk that serious, substantial or prolonged damage to the environment will be caused by these acts." Until today, that still happens with impunity. That is why there is a worldwide campaign to include ecocide in criminal law as a fifth crime brought to justice by the International Criminal Court. Belgium was the first European country to support the campaign. Ecocide is one of the few issues on which Belgium is an international leader in environmental policy. Last year, this Parliament also voted a resolution to include ecocide in Belgian criminal law. I have two questions about this. How far is the bill to include ecocide in criminal law? Will Belgium at European level plead for ecocide to be included in the renewed European environmental criminal law?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u84	Like you, the increasing attention to ecocide and the ongoing call for its criminalisation have not escaped me. Ecocide is indeed an immense threat to our planet and humanity. That is why our coalition agreement includes efforts to integrate ecocide into the new Criminal Code and to study and take diplomatic initiatives to limit the crime of ecocide, the deliberate destruction of ecological systems. As regards the criminalisation of ecocide in our criminal law, the experts of the Criminal Reform Commission delivered their opinions at the end of November. On this basis, my cabinet is working with Minister Van Quickenborne on a draft article to be included in Book 2 of the new Criminal Code. Within the framework of the European Green Deal, the European Commission has published a legislative initiative on the protection of the environment through criminal law. This proposal for a new Directive follows on from the evaluation of Directive 2008/99/EC and strengthens a more stringent and effective approach to the different forms of environmental crime by requiring Member States to take criminal action. At the European Environment Council of 17 March 2021, Belgium expressed its support for this proposal. However, our country regretted that the proposed text did not address the issue of the criminalisation of ecocide. I also called on my fellow European ministers to unite in the framework of the international week of the ecocide on the inclusion of ecocide in the Rome Statute. This would enable the International Criminal Court to bring such crimes to justice, as it can now condemn genocide or crimes against humanity. This would add a new crime to international criminal law, the first one since 1945. Agreement on a crime as an ecocide could contribute to a change of attitude and better protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u85	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We are pleased that Belgium is taking the lead in hard legislation against ecocide. To put it this way, Rise for Climate, it is time to change national, European and international rules to protect our common home, the Earth. We cannot rely on non-binding treaties that are not being complied with. I am counting on Belgium to continue its efforts to ensure that ecocide is recognised as a crime at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u86	Madam Minister, it is strange that this question was not merged with the questions about last week's European Environment Council, because my question is largely about the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u87	If my answers were sufficient then, maybe we could drop this question? I do have an answer for you if you would like to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u88	I will ask my question, Madam Secretary. As energy prices reach unprecedented levels, the EU Council is negotiating a series of proposals to increase carbon pricing in our economy and push companies and citizens towards climate transition via a price signal. Only with the rise in energy prices of the last year, we see that this approach is not working at all. People and companies are financially undermining costs and polluting heaters have been all the way back from never really gone. The ETS price has gone all the way since Russian speculators sold their stocks and companies are changing to polluting coal again. Much has already been said in this energy crisis about irrational markets, also by liberal politicians, but what has not yet been said is that markets are, by definition, irrational. Now that the EU has realised that it is serious about energy transition and that reducing fossil dependence is a security issue, we are talking seriously about plans instead of about markets for the first time. It is about real plans for mass renovation, roll-out of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Madam Minister, what is the relevance of the proposal to set up an ETS for transport and buildings as indirect carbon tax? How did Belgium advocate this at the European Environment Council on 17 March? What did Belgium advocate with regard to the introduction of a carbon border mechanism? In what way has Belgium in its position taken into account the North-South Gorge which will increase that CBAM?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u89	Mrs Daems, on 17 March there was a meeting of the Environment Ministers, where the new ETS for buildings and transport was at the heart of the debate. In the run-up to the Environment Council, the European Commission distributed a non-paper on the ETS BRT, which once again argued the importance of the instrument. For example, the Commission stated that the new ETS could provide 35% of the additional emission reduction required in the building and transport sector. This could also be done with even stricter standards for buildings and vehicles, but the Commission considers that the Member States face two problems. The first problem is that increased investment in energy-efficient homes or electric vehicles, including in socially vulnerable groups, has not yet been financed. Socially vulnerable groups are going to have to invest up to EUR 5 billion over the next ten years to make their homes climate-friendly, according to the Commission. CO2 pricing generates revenues that can co-finance such high levels of investment among social target groups. Secondly, standards fail to guide behavior. Someone can set the heating very high perfectly in an efficient home because the consumption costs are low. The Committee points out that the 20% richest households account for 32% of emissions in buildings and transport and the 20% poorest for only 9%. CO2 pricing, the resources of which, among other things, go back to the lowest income through a social fund and make the necessary investments possible, is therefore extremely progressive. Minister Henry spoke for Belgium in the Environment Council. Its text was approved by the four Environment Ministers of this country. He said, among other things, that Belgium supports an acceleration of the energy transition and supports strong and ambitious policies and measures at EU level. However, Belgium remains concerned about the social and economic impact of the new ETS on road transport and buildings. Belgium considers that an effective contribution from these sectors can also be made through ambitious European standards, as is the case for CO2 standards for cars and light commercial vehicles. Belgium is therefore in favour of the abolition of vehicles with an internal combustion engine by 2030. Furthermore, Minister Henry indicated to Belgium that if the debate on the new ETS is to be deepened, the social dimension must be taken into account, for example by working on predictability and price fluctuations. Belgium also considers that the proceeds of such a system should be of major benefit to the most vulnerable members of society, through a social climate policy and by supporting SMEs in the transition. With this position, Belgium was in a middle group of countries that are critical of the ETS BRT, but are opening up to talk about modalities. Nine countries, including Germany, were clearly in favour of the instrument in the Environment Council. Six countries, including Poland and Hungary, were clearly opposed. According to our census, it is still possible that the new ETS will reach a majority in the Council. That is why I personally think it is important that we make maximum efforts to ensure that the instrument has a predictable price with a price cap and that the social dimension is fully taken into account. As regards CBAM, as you could read in the media, the Finance Ministers have reached an agreement on this and can go to the trialogue. For the details of the agreement, please refer to Minister Van Peteghem, as he follows CBAM in the first line. If I mention the possibility that the new ETS will pass, it is because we have learned that in addition to France, Germany and probably a third country will bring together the three countries necessary for this. We are still looking at this, but the latest information we get shows us that there are more possibilities than I thought at first.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For us, the energy crisis is once again an illustration of the fact that market signals are not working to help citizens and businesses make the climate transition. The high prices are eating away at their investment budgets, if they already have them. The scarcity of raw materials means that they have to wait a long time for their investments in the energy transition and that they pay for that transition. The fact that we need a carbon tax or a carbon market to finance the energy transition of the socially vulnerable is a mistake. What we need to help citizens are not markets but plans. We need large-scale plans with massive public investment in renovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency. To finally reduce CO2 emissions quickly enough and keep global warming below one and a half degrees Celcius, we need to oblige the major polluters to decarbonise through binding emission standards. Finally, we are not helping the South to build a green economy with a carbon border tax, but with a fair contribution to international climate financing, absolving unjust debt and the transfer of technological knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u91	Minister, a study by the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) recently indicated that a bitcoin transaction was responsible for as much CO2 emissions as an average household in three weeks. In addition, the Digiconomist points out that today this cryptocurrency consumes 20 times more electricity than in 2017. Finally, a study published in September 2021 informs us that bitcoin miners generate as much electronic waste as the Netherlands because of the extremely short service life of the machines used. Minister, on May 11, 2021, you told me that the principle of current cryptocurrency was a certain environmental problem and that there was a potential for reducing the energy footprint of some of the new cryptocurrency in the market. Given the new published studies, can we get your feedback on the issue? Has there been an increased use of new cryptocurrency? Do these technologies suggest desirable prospects? In your answer to Mr Burton's written question, to which you referred me, you stated that "the bitcoin is not currently the subject of any regulation as a general rule in Europe". We know that these are shared competences. However, can you tell us what measures could be envisaged to counter the phenomenon mentioned, both at national, European and international level? Could a system of regulation to reduce the impact of these currencies be put in place? Can a limitation or even a ban on problematic practices, such as mining, be envisaged? Have there been any contacts with your colleagues in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u92	Mr Senesael, my reply of 11 May and my written reply remain valid. The intensity of mining depends essentially on the value of the cryptocurrency in question, the price of electricity and the energy performance of the computers used. If less energy-intensive cryptocurrencies were to emerge, they would quickly gain value and the problem would not be solved. The adoption of cryptocurrency, for example by Russia to circumvent the embargo, is raising their price. The rise in the price of electricity causes it to fall, as does the withdrawal or introduction of mining for environmental reasons, as currently discussed within the European Union. The three European regulators warned investors on 17 March 2022: they risk losing everything. In other words, it is an ultra-speculative market that takes place at the expense of the environment. The level of regulation is essentially European. At this point, I have no more answers to give you, except to refer you to this debate. I also advise you to interview Secretary of State Mathieu Michel and Minister Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u93	Thank you, minister, for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u94	Madam Minister, last Friday a decision was taken on the negotiating mandate for extending the lifespan of nuclear power plants and increasing a number of energy transition measures. The question is how you want to translate this into the National Energy and Climate Plan. Just as offshore windmills have an impact on the climate plan, the extension of the lifetime of nuclear power plants has an impact on this, as does the other energy transition measures. There will be a path that will be necessary in order to fit all this. It will also have to be discussed with the other levels of policy in the next phase. How do you see that process? What impact will the agreement have on the National Energy and Climate Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u95	Mr Wollants, the existing climate governance framework can handle last week's agreement. After all, it was designed in such a way that the continuous tightening and adjustment of federal climate policy is possible and even promoted. In concrete terms, all the relevant ministers will have to check whether or not federal policies already exist for the measures adopted, the so-called PAMs. If that is the case, they can incorporate the additional objectives, sub-measures or budgets into the roadmaps for updating those PAMs that we are planning this spring in anticipation of the first public progress report this summer. For example, the VAT discount for heat pumps or solar boilers will end up in Minister Van Peteghem's road map for taxation and the rail freight budgets at Minister Gilkinet's. It is clear that the agreement has taken another step towards the 25 million tonnes of additional emission reductions in the non-ETS on the federal contribution to the European -55 %. As far as the interfederal measures are concerned, I propose a different route. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of the chairman of the NKC, Flemish minister Zuhal Demir, to activate the consultations on the existing interfederal measures and the NEKP. In addition, there is now the possibility to include new interfederal measures in the political negotiations for a new cooperation agreement for the period 2021-2030. I am in favour of putting together an ambitious list, consisting not only of interfederal measures but also of measures which governments want others to adopt. I refer, for example, to the numerous wish lists which are regularly sent by the Flemish level to the federal government and which often contain legitimate questions. I believe that this list of federal and regional measures should then be discussed with stakeholders at an interfederal climate table. This list should then result in a separate chapter of the update of the NEKP. Unfortunately, no agreement has yet been reached on this in the national climate committee. The Flemish Region continues to ignore the inherent interlinking of regional and federal climate policy there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u96	Madam Secretary, we will follow the direction in which this dossier evolves. However, it is also largely about measures within the ETS sector. However, the National Energy and Climate Plan also has it. We are curious about the order of magnitude of a number of things being pushed forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u97	Madam Minister, the climate tables are a word that I think was invented in the Netherlands. That concept was certainly applied there. Former Minister Nijpels has even been in our committee to explain this. There are five climate tables around electricity, built environment, industry, agriculture and mobility, in accordance with the coalition agreement. Madam Secretary, what progress has been made with this method? What can we expect? How, what, with whom will the climate tables be realized? I have a lot of questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u98	Madam Minister, I understand from an explanatory statement by Mr Nijpels that a number of conditions are linked to participation in climate tables. In the Netherlands, for example, this is linked to the -49% target. One may then join the table on condition that the objective itself is not called into question. Anything can be said and asked. The timing is also important in this respect, as it could also be necessary to adjust federal commitments and budgets depending on the outcome of the climate tables. Madam Secretary, in what way do you wish to use the concept of the climate tables? Which actors do you wish to involve? Are there specific conditions for participation in climate tables? What timing is proposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u99	Climate tables will be organised in the second half of 2022 as part of the review of the federal energy and climate plan. They provide an opportunity to exchange views with stakeholders and experts on federal policies and measures proposed in the framework of good climate governance maps, and to identify additional measures. The conclusions of those round table meetings will be available in time to be used in the preparation of the federal energy and climate plan. Five climate tables will be organised. The precise issues still need to be identified with the various relevant ministers. I will coordinate this exercise, but I will work closely with the relevant ministers in the development and practical organisation of the climate round tables for their specific areas of competence. The topics to be discussed are transport, buildings, energy including electricity generation, taxation and sustainable consumption and production. The federal government would also like to organise an interfederal climate table with the regions. Each climate table will be limited to 30 to 40 participants, stakeholders, experts and representatives of various federal government agencies and institutions, as well as moderators and fact-checkers. Representatives of regional administrations will be invited to discuss the coordination of federal and regional measures. The climate tables are organized in two sessions of half a day with a month in between to enable participants to refine their views between the two sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for the state of play. The important thing is that people around the table have an impact, they have to be key figures, so that it doesn't become a talk barracks. For inspiration for the themes you can look at the Netherlands, which already organized five climate tables. Of course, the Netherlands is not a federal country like our country. You say that you will also involve the regions, which I think is wise. Let us hope that we, with the right people around the table, will get enough food and drink from it to fill your climate plan and make it effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u101	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Indeed, we need to look at how we fill in the climate tables and, for example, what themes will be covered. Moreover, the issues relate mainly to regional powers, and that is why it is all the more necessary for everyone to look at these matters in the same way, otherwise I do not think that such consultation would make much sense. I also think that the right people should sit around the table, even if that does not have to be just experts for me. There is above all a need for people who are active in the field and who know the problems in detail. We have heard a lot about the theoretical application recently. Implementation in practice is often much more important to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u102	Madam Secretary, this has always been a difficult subject. The war in Ukraine, the grain barn of Europe, and the reports from East Africa where 28 million people are starving make it difficult to justify putting food in our energy sources. A new report by a broad coalition has been published on the Belgian biofuels policy. What's your reaction to that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u103	Mr Verduyckt, the debate on the use of biofuels in transport must be approached from the point of view of sustainable development. We need to take into account different parameters: the impact on climate, environment and biodiversity as well as socio-economic aspects such as the impact on human rights and food prices. I have taken note of the report and agree that current food prices on the world market emphasise the importance and urgency of this discussion. From the holistic perspective of sustainable development, it is difficult to justify public authorities encouraging the use of first generation biofuels to achieve EU transport targets. Minister Van der Straeten is in charge of the discussions on the transposition of the RED II Directive. I invite you to check with her on the latest state of these talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-22-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic733x.u104	Mr President, Minister, I share your opinion and will follow your suggestion.
