ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Reform we are having a whole discussion about the government's institutional ambitions on the basis of questions such as who will do what exactly and how tailor-made work can be done for the Länder. We ask the ministers about this, who then bounce the ball back and forward us to the trade ministers. That is why I have now written to all the trade ministers about their institutional plans. Frankly, the question was perhaps addressed to the Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs rather than to the Secretary of State responsible for the budget. Hopefully you will be able to provide a combined answer. The ministers have written a letter to you to check your plans. A number of ministers have already replied, but apparently you have not yet replied. Are you planning on answering? What are your plans in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u2	Mr Loones, for the budget policy area, I have not submitted proposals for an asymmetric policy to my colleagues responsible for institutional reform. I may not have to explain to you that the communities and regions have a great autonomy to draw up their own budgetary policies, both micro and macro. The Law of 16 May 2003 laying down the general provisions applicable to the budgets, the control of grants and the accounts of the communities and regions and the organisation of the audit by the Court of Auditors lays down minimum budgetary and accounting provisions. In this context, communities have a great freedom to develop and implement their own systems. They also make full use of this freedom. Communities and regions may also determine independently the orientations of their budgetary path, define the balance path and take expenditure and revenue measures. Of course, there is also a need for coordination in this area. This coordination is mainly aimed at respecting a number of European obligations. Coordination shall be governed by the Cooperation Agreement of 13 December 2013. That cooperation agreement lays down the procedure for preparing the stability programme to be submitted annually to Europe. It was not possible in the past to reach an agreement on budgetary objectives as laid down in the cooperation agreement. This problem was raised in a sheet drawn up at the request of the Ministers for Institutional Reforms. It will also be made available to the Joint Parliamentary Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u3	I would like to comment briefly on three points, Madam Secretary of State. Firstly, I will once again ask the Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs whether measures are being taken in its field. Secondly, I would like to suggest that you put this on paper and reply by letter to your fellow ministers. It seems to me the right order of business to reply with a letter when they receive a letter. Thirdly, I will continue to question you on the subject. In budgetary terms, you can do a lot of things: for example, you can explore how to add responsive elements for states that are more sensible in dealing with their budgetary resources. We will certainly debate that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u4	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u5	Mr Vermeersch, on the basis of the Winter 2022 Economic Forecast, published on 10 February 2022, Belgium will be entitled to a maximum envelope of EUR 4.5 billion, which would indeed mean a reduction of EUR 1.35 billion. In the meantime, the European Commission has provided more information on the specific steps the European Commission will take to update the calculation of the maximum envelope for each Member State under the RRF. This account relates only to the 30% of the total amount available under the Facility for non-refundable financial support. The maximum envelope of each Member State for 70% of the total amount available is not subject to an update. With regard to the procedure and the requirements for submitting an update of the Recovery and Ferry Plan, the Commission intends to issue more guidelines in the coming weeks. In accordance with the RRF Regulation, 30% of the total amount available under the non-refundable financial assistance facility will be updated by 30 June 2022 at the latest, replacing the Commission autumn 2020 forecasts with the actual results of the 2020 change in real GDP and the aggregated change in real GDP for the period 2020-2021. More specifically, the key for the 30% of the total amount available under the non-refundable support facility is calculated on the basis of population size, inverse of GDP per capita and in equal proportions change, loss, real GDP in 2020 and aggregated change in real GDP for the period 2020-2021. Annex 3 of the RRF Regulation specifies that this calculation should be done on the basis of the latest available update of the Eurostat TEC00115 Real GDP Growth Rate Volume data series. The annual growth rates of real GDP, published in the Eurostat TEC00115 data series, are provided by the national statistical offices, in Belgium the INR, within the deadline, imposed for the ESA 2010. National statistical offices should provide Eurostat with provisional annual data for real GDP by T+ two months, i.e. by the end of February, and revised data by T + nine months, i.e. by the end of September. In addition to these fixed deadlines, Member States may revise their data, including in recent years. Revisions shall be published in Eurostat's online database, including Table TEC00115, once they have been sent to and validated by Eurostat. Taking into account the above, the Commission will follow the next process. In order to enable the Commission to update the updated maximum financial contributions per Member State by 30 June 2022, Eurostat will be asked to provide a table to DG ECFIN by 15 June 2022 showing the real growth rates of gross domestic product on the basis of data submitted by the Member States, series TEC00115 Real GDP Growth Trade Volume. In order to give Eurostat sufficient time to carry out normal checks on the data transmitted, the national statistical offices will be asked to provide this data to Eurostat by 8 June 2022 at the latest. The Commission will use this data and recalculate each Member State's share in the 30% of the total amount available under the RRF for unpaid financial support. The Commission will notify the results of the updated calculations by 30 June at the latest. There has been no agreement at intra-Belgian level on the distribution of less revenue among the various sub-entities. As mentioned earlier, the Commission will first have to carry out a calculation of the resources. In another step, the RRF regulation provides for the possibility of renegotiating the Belgian Recovery and Ferry Plan with the European Commission. Article 21 of the RRF provides that where the recovery and resilience plan, including the relevant milestones and targets, is no longer feasible for the Member States concerned on the basis of objective circumstances, in part or in full, the Member State concerned may make a reasoned request to the Commission to make a proposal to amend or replace the Council's implementing acts. To this end, the Member State may submit a proposal for an amended or new recovery and resilience plan. Member States may request technical assistance in preparing such a proposal under the Technical Support Instrument. If the Belgian Recovery and Resilience Plan were to be revised, a new distribution of it would have to be confirmed by the Consultation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer with very interesting information and a lot of time data. I remember the date 30 June 2022. As with the discussion on who will ultimately have to pay the corona invoice, no agreement has yet been reached on the European Recovery Fund's resources. We regret this, because with my question I wanted to know what the federal government's position is on the distribution of the EUR 1.35 billion. Nor have you wisely answered my question as to whether you think it is justified for Wallonia to ask for federal solidarity. Wallonia calls for one more federal solidarity. We all know what that means, namely more Flemish tax money for Walloon expenditure. About that 1;35 billion Elio Di Rupo said that the loss for Wallonia amounts to about EUR 350 million. According to Di Rupo, the reason for the lower income in Wallonia lies mainly in the growth in Flanders. Because Flanders has grown too much, Flanders has to take the pill. By Flanders, Wallonia will receive less from Europe. That is why the PS now wants to prepare a dossier for Flanders to take the fall. For the Flemish Interest, there can be absolutely no additional Flemish money to compensate for the reduced income of the European Recovery Fund. The Flemish Government has already taken on the role of poor negotiation and only provided 38% of these European funds. Flanders cannot and must not pay the price a second time. In the run-up to 30 June 2022, we will certainly raise this issue a few more times.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, we have already discussed in plenary how you can ensure that your budget is put in order a little more. This will require additional steps in the area of labour market policy. Reforms are needed. I am glad that budgetary control has started. You said this weekend in your interview in the Seventh Day that you emphasised this, because these reforms are urgently needed. However, I can see that Minister Dermagne is now tweeting positive news, as if there were no problems. I also see that Minister Lalieux communicated this morning about any jurisdiction but not about hers, namely pensions. It's like she's forgotten she's the Minister of Pensions. Madam Secretary of State, I have two questions for you. When will there finally be action? Has that been discussed in the meantime? This weekend, you have given the first impetus to budgetary control within the government. Were the ministers reminded of their responsibilities? A mini-work deal has already been decided. In the meantime, is there any idea of the precise budgetary impact it would generate?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u8	Mr Loones, the labour deal is the booster for modernising the labour market. It provides flexibility for employees, the right to deconnect, the relaxation of our e-commerce, better protection of our platform workers, active dismissal and lifelong learning. These are important elements to keep workers on board in times of a changing labour market. The payback effects of this important measure are difficult or almost impossible to quantify by individual measure. However, the budgetary revenues have already been taken into account in the preparation of the budget for 2022, by taking into account the impact of these measures and other measures, such as the tax shift or the increase in the level of effectiveness. For this reason, I have given a conditional budget agreement which is fully in line with the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate. The first condition for my agreement is to monitor the impact of this measure on the employment rate target to be achieved, i.e. 10,000 additional jobs per year, which was included in the notification of 20 October 2021 in relation to the multiannual budget 2022-2024. In fact, it amounts to a reduction in the budget for unemployment benefits. In addition, an additional package of measures will be proposed by the Council of Ministers at the second reading of the draft, on the indication of the inter-federal platform. My second condition follows from this. These measures should be submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate. This allows the budgetary impact to be objectively verified. I have already delivered my agreement to the secretariat of the Chamber. The secretariat shall be responsible for the further distribution of this among the members of the committee. I have repeatedly stressed in the past that activation measures are extremely important, not least because of social reasons. The government has always put the increase in jobs and employment first. She's also worked out that work deal recently. The figures from the economic budget, which, of course, show an image of the Ukraine crisis, show that the Planning Office expected a marked positive change in the labour market. I am not convinced that the principle you are putting forward guarantees a better budgetary position and effective measures to increase the level of activity. We may have the same objective as regards the increase in activity rates, but our opinion on the instruments to be deployed seems to be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, our views on the method of action and the means to be used are indeed different. We want to see progress made, a sound policy at last and serious measures taken in the field of labour market policy. I note that you are defending the last mini-agreement as if it were a booster for the labour market. After taking note of this agreement, Bart Van Craeynest said that this is the government of mini-steps. Ive Marx has said that it is a very limited set of measures that are not close to the necessary measures. Stijn Baert says the agreement points to the government's delay. Geert Noels has an even more destructive opinion on what has already been decided. You call this a booster for the labour market. You say that you cannot calculate the precise impact of these measures, but that the amounts are already in the budget. So Minister Dermagne already has his pennies, but he doesn't have to prove that he's getting results. You also refer to the notifications and say that they will be monitored. At the same time, it is difficult to determine, not at all at all, how some things can be quantified. Finally, you refer to the inter-federal platform which is now not legally possible. I'm questioning all the ministers about that. The first answer on this subject was that new agreements would be made in the inter-federal platform, that they would be integrated into the law on various provisions and that they would be approved jointly in Parliament. In the meantime, this has already been contradicted by two ministers. Madam Secretary of State, please, follow the whirlwind that says it's enough. Do not believe that your and my party would propose other instruments and other solutions. We are proposing the same, serious measures for the labour market. I sincerely hope you don't follow that vivaldi shine. This isn't gonna get us there, and this is gonna make me nervous. I'm surprised the sense of urgency in this government doesn't seem present at all. They want to spend more money immediately, but when it comes to putting turbo effects on reforms, it's always nougat balls. That's what you have to worry about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u10	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is rather technical. We know that this is difficult to estimate. I see that for the National Bank of Belgium, which is, by the way, a guest in our committee tomorrow for a hearing, Mr Wunsch has already made a number of communications in the press. So we already have a better idea of what exactly might come to us in the context of growth expectations. I would like to focus my question more on the machinery. You have indicated that an interkabinets working group or IKW has been set up. I'd like to get more insight into that group. Who's a part of it? Who's following the IKW? Which cabinets are represented in it? What advice have you already requested from the National Bank of Belgium and, I presume, also from a number of other institutions and administrations? Specifically, I would like to have your insights on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u11	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in a discussion on budgetary control in the De Morgend programme on Radio 1 a few weeks ago, you indicated that the additional expenditure for the war in Ukraine had already risen to EUR 800 million in a few weeks' time. It would be tax money for the reception of refugees, but also for supplies of military equipment, fuels and other support to Ukraine. For the first few months, you estimated that extra expenditure would be EUR 800 million, as you stated on the radio. Last week we received new figures. The war in Ukraine has already increased the budget deficit by EUR 1.5 billion, as shown by a new estimate by the Planning Bureau. That is why I have a number of questions. Firstly, what is the estimated increase in expenditure, which was estimated at EUR 800 million on 18 March 2022? How did that amount come together? What amount goes to the reception of refugees? What amount goes on living wages and what amount to the military equipment supplied, to fuels and to other support for Ukraine? Secondly, the total amount for 2022 will, of course, increase rapidly to many billions of euros at the current rate. So far it has been estimated at EUR 1.5 billion. What do you estimate the additional expenditure for the whole of 2022? How has this total amount been compiled in terms of reception, living wages, materials, fuels and other aid? I have a second question, which was linked to the previous questions. It concerns the interesting figures and calculations of your political group, which expressed doubts as to whether the Ukrainian refugees arriving should be fully included in our social system and should receive a living wage. The Flemish Interest is in favour of a separate social security for newcomers. Your colleague wrote on his website that for a family the living wage is 1.478 euros, for a single person just over 1,000 euros and for a cohabiting 729 euros. If 200,000 Ukrainian refugees receive an average of EUR 1,000 per month, this costs EUR 200 million per month and therefore EUR 2.4 billion per year. Public finances simply cannot cope with this. This will be paid in the long term by all the working people in our country. That statement sounds like music to the Flemish Interests. Can you confirm the figures and calculations quoted by your political group? Do you have an analysis of the impact on public finances of this influx of refugees? If so, can it be shared with Parliament? What are the most important findings? Last week you said in plenary that you have some sort of matrix. Of course, we would like to look at that matrix. If not, will you instruct you to prepare such an impact analysis? As Secretary of State for the Budget, are you also following the evolution of living wages and their impact on public finances?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u12	On 8 and 10 March, an Interkabinets Working Group was convened with the aim of making a provisional inventory of the short-term budgetary impact. Almost all the policy cells were involved. The aim is to identify costs until the end of July on the basis of preliminary assumptions on the flow of refugees. Work is done on the basis of a hypothetical influx of 259.000 people. A distinction is made in the inventory between the direct costs associated with the number of refugees, such as reception, living wage and custody, and the framework needed to accompany this well. In addition, there is also a number of expenditure previously placed under the threat measures, such as defence expenditure, enforcement or enforcement of sanctions or on-the-spot aid measures, such as B-FAST, energy and humanitarian aid. You also had questions about the framework. This currently concerns 442 full-time equivalents, on top of the open vacancies that are not filled. In order to find a solution to this problem, the Budget stresses the willingness to allow transfers of funds between departments to benefit from the existing civil service and to continue working with Special Federal Forces. In other words, they are officials who are temporarily employed in other departments. Several hypotheses have been discussed and harmonised in the working group listing possible budgetary expenditure. I would like to inform you that we are still following closely the developments in the hypotheses used so far and that the figures are regularly adjusted. The hypotheses used determine everything. Based on the estimates and assumptions of 24 March, the budgetary cost could reach €875 million by the end of July. It is an inventory exercise and assessment and therefore not an approved amount. On this basis, the index commission for the indexation provided for in the budget format for 2022 could initially be used, together with the possibilities of financing and pre-financing of existing appropriations, in order to allocate the necessary resources for the rest of the year through budgetary control. On 24 March we worked with a departure base of a total influx of 259.000 refugees in Belgium until summer. Of these, 20% would need shelter. This gives an estimated cost of 49 million euros until the end of July. For the living wage we expect an application of 50% of the refugees. A large part of the influx concerns children. This inflow will be gradually built up in the coming months. The estimated cost is EUR 665 million until the end of July. For costs related to direct aid abroad, the budget is estimated at EUR 150 million on 28 March. This therefore concerns the cost of supplying petroleum products, medical equipment and humanitarian aid. At present, assumptions are still too variable to make estimates until the end of the year. The IKW did not request advice on the economic impact because it was an inventory exercise. However, this does not mean that general opinions are not requested outside. For example, the National Bank of Belgium and the Federal Planning Bureau were contacted by the Prime Minister to identify the possible economic impact in the coming weeks. In the meantime, these opinions were forwarded. You spoke of EUR 1.5 billion that the crisis would cost Belgium, on the basis of a report from the National Bank. That amount includes the economic impact. So these are not the direct costs, but the total estimated impact on our GDP. As the assumptions here have a major impact on the estimate of the necessary budget, I can inform you that last Friday, 25 March, the following data were communicated by Celeval. The influx until 25 March concerned 26,157 people, of which 43 % were minors. Of this group, 19 % or 5,098 people made use of the federal emergency shelter. No data are yet available on the application for the equivalent living wage. The estimate of the inflow remains a great unknown and varies between 80,000 and 287.000. Celeval's final assessment would be 143,500 people. A permanent follow-up of number and hypotheses will therefore be necessary. We will continue to work on that. It is therefore very difficult to make an assessment until the end of the year: we have far too little data on the speed with which or not refugees will come here. You saw that we started with 259,000, the last estimate was about 140,000. It is therefore incredibly difficult to make budgetary estimates for this. The budgetary impact of, for example, the price of oil products can be identified, but what will be the impact of the flow of refugees is very difficult to estimate in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, those are some hallucinating figures. One figure that struck me particularly, but perhaps you can confirm it, is that you expect a cost of EUR 665 million for the living wage until the end of July. That's huge. To put it in perspective, the government has been negotiating the tax reduction on gas for months. It costs our budget 400 million and here we are spending EUR 665 million on living wages alone. In that sense, I can understand your group colleagues when they say that it is simply priceless, but you do not go into that. The EUR 665 million invoice will, of course, end up with the taxpayer. Hence our plea, especially in this crisis, for a separate social security system and a separate social status for newcomers. We have long held this plea for this crisis, and we have already done so in the election campaign. We must at last do something about this in the area of budgetary control. If some of these figures are confirmed here, such as the 259 000 refugees you expect, then the 2.4 billion in living wages per year calculated by your colleagues in your group is a figure that is absolutely not taken out of the blue, but a realistic figure. It's five to twelve. I would like to call on your government to put the issue of living wages on top of the political agenda in budgetary control and finally to work on a separate statute and a separate social security for newcomers. My party will make a plea for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, last Thursday in plenary we talked about extra money for Defence. Meanwhile, it has become clear that the government is planning an additional EUR 1 billion, of which EUR 450 million this year, as you have indicated, and the rest of the amount spread over 2023 and 2024. I therefore confine my question to a few other aspects. Madam Secretary of State, for a general picture, can you object to the general amount needed, given, of course, the current situation and current GDP, in order to achieve 2% of GDP in defence expenditure? I think it is about EUR 2.5 billion, but I would like to see the amount multiplied by you. Is there any discussion in the government to set up a path to achieve that 2%? The urgency of an N-VA proposal was voted on in plenary, but the next day we read in the newspaper that both the MR and Open Vld have asked the government to speed up that process. I'm assuming that question ended up on your table as well. Can you confirm that the government is discussing that additional expenditure on defence is not limited to 1 billion, but that it is actually achieving 2% of GDP? My third question is who will pay for that. In addition to the additional expenditure, will there be additional efforts, such as reforms or savings, to ensure that the bill is correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u16	The additional expenditure that would be necessary to increase and increase current defence expenditure to 2% of gross domestic product by 2030, in line with the multiannual forecast used during 2022's budgetary control, is EUR 354 million in 2023, EUR 9.32 million in 2024, EUR 1.475 billion in 2025, EUR 2.046 billion in 2025, EUR 2.441 billion in 2027, EUR 3.531 billion in 2028, EUR 4.330 billion in 2029 and EUR 4.765 billion in 2030. What else is on the table? We're in the middle of budget control right now. We will, of course, include the item that will be added once, namely the EUR 450 million. It's being processed, of course. The other discussion will rather be on the table on the occasion of budgetisation 2023. It is therefore two completely different things. The amount of 1 billion should be regarded as a one-off expenditure and not as a structural increase in expenditure. The amount is, of course, taken into account in the budgetary control and in the adjustment of the multiannual plan. The other discussion followed when the budget for 2023 was drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u17	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I note that this is a one-off expenditure of 1 billion, not a structural expenditure, and that the debate on the 2% in the budget is discussed in the context of the 2023 budget. I would also like to thank you for the sums listed. From the combination of the answers, I can see that structural expenditure is in the growth path to 2% and that there is therefore some increase every year. In 2023, this amounted to 354 million and 932 million in 2024. In the delta, therefore, a small 600 million should be added structuralally.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u18	Mr Loones, this is a mysterious question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u19	There are only mysterious questions when we look at the budget, Madam President. There's a lot of mystery behind the numbers, especially for those who want to believe it's gonna be okay. But this is a serious bill question. We have already had a discussion on the state of the accounts. He's a little undersized. You started with a plan to put the state's accounts in order. We discussed this in the Subcommittee on the Auditor's Office. There is a proposal to bring a number of competent ministers to that subcommittee. I do not know if you have already been contacted by the chairman or the services of that subcommittee. Is this also the case for some of your colleagues? The Court of Auditors has been a guest in this committee. At that time, reference was made to the roadmap of your predecessor, Minister Clarinval. But that roadmap never made it to the Court of Auditors. Now it is announced that this would be delivered. Is that what happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u20	Mr Loones, the drafting of general accounts and consolidated accounts has been the responsibility of the Minister for the Budget since the entry into force of the Law of 22 May 2003. As always, I am available to explain myself in the Committee on Finance and the Budget or in the Subcommittee on Audit and to give insight into the measures taken or to be taken to improve the quality of the accounts. Of course, I have no objection to an exchange of views being held within the Sub-Committee of Auditors, inviting the various ministers responsible to discuss the accounts of the institutions under their respective jurisdiction. The Roadmap was drawn up on the basis of the comments made at that time to the general account of the general administration for the year 2018. It was necessary to update and update this plan in order to respond to the comments on the general accounts and consolidated financial statements of 2020 published on the Court of Auditors' website. This update will be carried out this month so that the updated plan can be communicated to Parliament by the end of the month. Together with the updated plan, my predecessor's roadmap will be delivered to the members of the committee and, if necessary, to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, there are many ministers in this government, but one competence does not seem to be divided, namely the power of Pensions. I don't know if anyone's seen the Minister of Pensions, at least I haven't. When the government started, it seemed as if there was a minister, but now we have not seen a minister for months. According to the coalition agreement, it should come forward with proposals and plans, but they are not there yet. In any case, the government has not yet decided on this. Madam Secretary of State, do you know who is responsible for Pensions in this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u22	Madam President, Mr Loones, a pension proposal was sent to the government. This is currently under discussion. However, the file has not yet been submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate or the FOD BOSA. My services have therefore not yet been able to give an assessment of the sheets submitted. The calculations were not yet submitted to the Federal Planning Office. So I cannot confirm yet that the proposal will be budgetaryly neutral and to what extent higher employment rates would contribute to this. Of course, I follow that very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, I can imagine that it is a day's task to follow that very closely. It's something that doesn't happen at all. Mrs Lalieux had to come forward with proposals by September. Turns out that was a joke. You confirm here that there are not even opinions from the Planning Bureau and the Finance Inspectorate, let alone from the Budget. You can't, because there's still no plan. Madam Secretary of State, this government should be more serious about the essential reforms that have been promised so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, at the end of last year, when drawing up the budget, the government assumed that inflation, triggered by high energy prices and the corresponding overruns of the central index, would be budget neutral. That was also confirmed by the Court of Auditors. I remember the hearing with the Court of Auditors when we asked if they could endorse the story of budget neutrality. We were properly explained at that time that this would be the case. In the meantime, unfortunately, we have had to adapt this vision. At a previous meeting of the Finance Committee, you stressed that inflation would indeed have a very negative impact on the budget. You also referred to the autumn forecasts of the National Bank. Madam Secretary of State, why didn't you include the National Bank's autumn forecast in the 2022 budget? Since the government has to adapt outdated figures, it is of course always pursuing the facts. Do you see the impact of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed? What is the overall budgetary impact? Last week we heard the figure of EUR 1.5 billion put forward by the Planning Bureau. Can you share your most recent findings on this with Parliament? What are the most important insights? The war in Ukraine also increases the risk of stagflation, the economic phenomenon characterised by slow growth and high unemployment combined with rising prices. Among other things, this risk is dismissed by the National Bank as less pertinent. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you how you estimate that risk of stag inflation. Do you have any idea of the impact of stagflatory pressure on the budget? This pressure is already there, of course. I also ask the question again about this sensitivity analysis with regard to inflation. Are you prepared to have the impact of stagflatory pressure on the budget examined? In mid-February, the National Bank made it clear that this country must build buffers in order to continue to bear the debt. The danger of stagflation and the energy crisis are, of course, putting additional pressure on public spending. How do you intend to address the challenge of spending on defence and more than half a billion euros on living wages? During the budgetary control of this Easter holiday, do you see room for additional buffers, as the National Bank is forcing us to do? Otherwise, according to them, there is a threat of a Greek scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u25	Mr Vermeersch, Mr Loones, the report of the March Monitoring Committee has traditionally been taken as the starting point for the conclave. The report of the Monitoring Committee was based on the Economic Budget and the Economic Perspective 2022-2027 of the Federal Planning Bureau of 17 and 24 February 2022. Those were the most recent economic forecasts at the time. As indicated by the Monitoring Committee in its report, the budgetary and economic consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which began on the day of the publication of the economic outlook of the Federal Planning Office, have not yet been taken into account. It's not exactly my role to make economic predictions, and so I'm having a hard time estimating the exact risk of stagflation. There are specialized institutions in our country, such as the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium, which have more expertise in this area. Of course, I follow that very closely. I read a lot about it and I'm very worried about it. The government has therefore asked the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium soon after the start of the conflict in Ukraine to make a preliminary assessment of the impact of the Ukraine crisis on the main macroeconomic parameters in the relatively short term. I note that these analyses are still based on a sharp fall in inflation rates in 2023. In previous answers, I have already indicated that it is not so easy to make a sensitivity analysis of the sensitivity of our budget to inflation. This will depend on the underlying cause of inflation, the assessment of its structural or temporary nature and the possible policy responses of the central bank. A fully coherent macroeconomic framework is therefore needed to assess the impact of rising inflation. With regard to the impact of the Ukraine crisis on interest charges, I can tell you that in the technical variant of the Federal Planning Bureau, the analysis is limited to an adjustment of a limited number of variables. It is therefore not a complete update of the Economic Budget. The impact on interest charges was not included separately in the note. With regard to the challenge I see, I do not want to anticipate budgetary control, but of course I am all concerned. It's too bad I don't have a glass ball, so I'd know how the situation will evolve. Everything is now based very much on hypotheses, but it is absolutely my intention to build in the necessary caution during control. If the crisis is to last much longer, it must certainly be done before 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, our country is, of course, more sensitive than other European countries to inflation. That is something we are all right to be concerned about. I hope that we will have further explanations at the hearing with the National Bank tomorrow. I will therefore keep my further comment for tomorrow. I also hope that you will follow this interesting session of our committee closely or far away. I believe that this may prove useful in the context of budgetary control which follows.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, I was particularly interested in your last sentence, in which you indicated that you would try to build in the necessary caution. It is a discussion that we have had on several occasions, on the fact that there are no buffers in your budget. Of course there are explanations for that, such as the corona crisis. In any case, it is a dossier that intrigues me and that I continue to follow with a particular enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I also submitted my question to the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Finance and Foreign Affairs. I don't expect an answer from the government right now. I expect your answer. I have found that it is the new style in your government that ministers are not supposed to defend government policy, but can conduct their own party communication. As a rule, this would be expected from party chairmen or MPs, but not here. All the Socialist ministers have decided to write an opinion document and sign it as a minister. I find that rather special. It is good that the debate is taking place, but it is special that ministers do so in function. Okay, if they like it, you can, too. Here I would have liked to ask you a number of questions, in particular on a very important dossier: where are we going with the budget schedule in a European context? What framework is being set up for this? I note that your socialist partners speak very clearly about this. Anything that tends towards budgetary discipline causes economic damage; taking back to overarching standards is a serious mistake; they believe that governments are the driving force behind economic recovery, whereas in my view private economic players are behind it. So they make a whole series of devastating statements about proper burial. I put them in eight questions for you. I would like to hear your opinion on this, and you may even sign it with your title as Secretary of State for the Budget, because, again, if they are allowed to do so, so can you.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u30	The committee is not the place to respond to every newspaper article. It is clear that the newspaper article in question by some members of the government cannot be regarded as a government position. The government determines its positions at the government table. My personal view is that budgetary discipline must be demonstrated and that an increase in debt levels must be avoided. We can't burden future generations with this. The degree of debt is a very important parameter. Consequently, the impact on debt levels should be taken into account in the budget formulation and distribution of available resources. That is very important to me. I have already indicated what I think of all these different proposals. I do not need to repeat the impact on the degree of debt of all these different proposals. Mr Vermeersch, I have repeatedly stressed the importance of creating budgetary buffers, as advocated by the governor in another article, in order to cope with future crises. It is therefore necessary to maintain budgetary discipline. As far as the question of budgetary discipline of the Walloon and Brussels entities is concerned, they do not fall within my competence. Each entity shall be responsible for ensuring its financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, Mr Loones and I have presented that document to you, because it shows that some ministers and secretaries of state are disregardful of what you say. They are disregardful of the budget and of budgetary discipline. They are learning against budgetary discipline, which they have never actually shown themselves, just look at Wallonia and Brussels. Nor is it serious at all, given that regional deficits and debts are becoming unsustainable, especially in Wallonia and Brussels. You argue that you are not competent in this matter. That's right, but I hope it's your concern. I do not need to explain to you that the European Commission, which you have worked for, is looking at the joint debt. You yourself put forward the target to end at 3 % in 2024. That percentage applies to the joint government. Even though it may not be your competence, it is hopefully your concern and you feel responsible for some of those debts and deficits. It is also unseen that ministers and secretaries of state are communicating with the parties; normally party chairmen and MPs express party positions. Here the opinion piece was clearly signed with function and titles. That leads to a schizophrenic situation in this country. Flanders still tries to keep things in order, tries to enforce strict rules and defends them, much stricter than the federal stance on budgetary rules. In Wallonia we see completely the opposite, with the socialist ministers and the Secretary of State in the lead. Worse still, we have just talked about the European Recovery Fund: if there is less income, we will immediately be knocking on the door for more Flemish money. We must also make a clear statement against this at federal level. That is not your competence, but your responsibility as Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u32	Madam Secretary of State, you say you cannot answer every piece of opinion. That is probably the case, but it is one to which you could respond more explicitly. It was signed by all the red ministers, so that is a little more than any piece of opinion. We had the discussion with the Minister of Finance. Mr Joris Vandenbroucke, Member of the Commission responsible for Vooruit, saw no difference between what is in the document of opinion and what is in the coalition agreement. Madam Secretary of State, we have no choice but to test your statements against what is actually happening in the government. Well, I note that a budgetary framework was agreed in the government agreement and that the previous budget format decided to be EUR 1 billion less ambitious. I note that the government agreement contains agreements to increase taxes and that all these increases have been implemented in the meantime. I note that there are red trophies in the area of higher spending and higher benefits. In the meantime, all these questions have been answered. However, when it comes to balance, more reform and efforts to keep the budget in order, so that we can sleep with peace of mind, nothing happens. You're trapped in a left-wing government. You do that with ministers who are not even ashamed of it and simply write public opinion papers, signed with their own title. I really believe that the current government and you in particular, with your liberal partners, should express that same level of ambition more explicitly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u33	Mr Raskin is not here, his question No. 55026303C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, you have received the written answer to my questions. I'm picking out some of them. In globo, we all realise that a very late decision was taken here, which puts the government in a bad negotiating position to keep those two nuclear power plants open and an invoice can be expected. Madam President, you are also very expert on this dossier and have already made a number of very clear statements on this matter. I also refer to your analysis. I assume that these figures have also been put on the table within the government, and that when it was decided to extend these two nuclear power stations, we also looked at the budgetary impact and what is still coming towards us. I do not expect you to explain everything in detail here, because you already have no negotiating position with this government, let alone weaken it even further, if you could. I hope to have some clarity and to hear from you that there has been not only an ideological discussion, but also a numerical discussion. Is that the case? Furthermore, I refer to the analyses made by experts on what this would cost and who should pay for it. If new nuclear power stations were to be built or new nuclear power stations were to be renewed, how would that be treated fiscally? Is this less than 6% VAT for renovation and rebuilding or is that something special?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u35	Madam Secretary of State, in 2025 there will be no complete nuclear trip in this country. The federal government wants to keep the two youngest nuclear reactors open for 10 years longer. In this way, it wants to secure the security of supply of electricity in this country. Madam President, we will only describe this as a moving insight. The government is spending more than €1 billion on an energy transition plan, a plan to reduce the energy dependence of fossil fuels and accelerate the transition towards renewable energy. Originally, the Greens put forward even EUR 8 billion, but this could be moderated, perhaps due to budgetary constraints. One of the measures of that plan is a reduced VAT rate for the purchase and installation of solar panels, heat pumps and solar boilers that could start from 1 April, if we can believe the media. That would be declared by royal decree. In addition, it also provides for the expansion of offshore wind capacity in the North Sea and an extension of the VAT reduction to 6% on demolition and reconstruction. Madam Secretary of State, I would like more clarification on this. What specific measures are contained in this energy transition plan and for what amounts? How will this energy transition plan be included in the budget? What is the deadline for this to be included in the budget? Will the amount of EUR 1 billion be included in the budget this year? Or will this be spread over the coming years of this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u36	In the meantime, the government has reached agreement on accelerating the energy transition with a view to increasing energy independence. This is a total package of measures of EUR 1,152 billion, spread over several years. In order to promote sustainable mobility, the following measures will be taken, in addition to the tax reform of commercial vehicles already in place. SNCB and Infrabel are asked to set up a pilot project for hydrogen trains. This is an investment of 2 million euros. With a view to doubling rail freight transport by 2030, the government will develop, in addition to the decisive structural reduction in the path fee, an aid regime of around EUR 15 million in 2023 for the distribution and combined transport, which complies with current European regulations. Infrabel's new performance contract will pay particular attention to initiatives for clear and timely communication to rail transport operators, e.g. in the case of works, in order to protect the companies concerned from unnecessary costs. A measure is being developed to green mopeds and light cargo. Neutralisation of the expected increase in SNCB tariffs for the year 2023 is being implemented. SNCB will be compensated for the corresponding amount. This is estimated at EUR 9 million. The European Directive 2019/1161/EU on Clean Work Vehicles is implemented in Belgian law with a view to greening the fleet of Belgian authorities. A number of measures are being taken to promote renewable energy and increase the independence of fossil fuels. In order to accelerate the production of renewable energy, further steps will be taken. The thresholds for the deployment of renewable energy will be reduced to the maximum by consulting with skeyes and Defense. The estimated cost of this is 13.5 million euros. The necessary initiatives will be taken with the aim that the first windmills in the Princess Elisabeth Zone will be operational in 2027. These costs are estimated at EUR 1.21 million. It examines how the offshore capacity in the North Sea can be optimised and further expanded to an installed capacity of up to 8 gigawatts. This is estimated at EUR 0.5 million. The production of renewable electricity in the first zone may be increased by means of a repo. To this end, a study is being carried out, the cost of which is also estimated at half a million euros. The lead will be to build a fast track force together with the North Sea neighboring countries to accelerate the development of a wind network at sea. The cost is estimated at half a million euros. Accelerated investments in solar energy are being made at sea, namely Floating Solar. This is a potential of 1 gigawatt. The cost would be EUR 10.5 million. An investment study on aquaculture parks will be launched to stimulate seaweed farming as a raw material for biofuel. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 250,000. In order to become more independent and diversify our energy imports, we need to accelerate the import of renewable hydrogen. The government decided to accelerate a hydrogen backbone from the Belgian ports to the Belgian industrial areas and to Germany by 2028. A first CO2 transport network with terminal units will be developed for this purpose. These costs are estimated at EUR 300 million. A plan for the development of hydrogen industry will be set up together with industry. EUR 0.2 million is foreseen for the establishment of the Task Force. In the short term, the following measures will be taken to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. From 1 April 2022 until the end of 2023, the VAT rate of 6% applies to demolition and reconstruction. The cost for 2023 is estimated at 215 million euros. That rule is very specific to certain conditions. I do not believe that nuclear power stations are included. For the installation and installation of solar panels for homes under 15 years of age, the cost is estimated at 10.7 million euros in 2022 and at 14.3 million euros in 2023. For the installation and installation of heat pumps and solar boilers for homes under 10 years of age, the cost is estimated at EUR 5.1 million in 2022 and at EUR 6.8 million in 2023. Concrete projects on preventive measures will be developed through a one-off additional funding of EUR 57 million in 2022 from the Gas and Electricity Social Fund. In the longer term, the following measures have been taken. The investment deduction will be reformed, with due attention being paid to sustainability. There will be rationalisation for the area used within the federal government buildings as well as a strategic energy renovation. It is being examined whether apartment buildings and such energetic renovation decisions can be approved by a simple majority. Tax measures on loading posts will be complemented in the light of new technologies, such as bidirectional and smartly steerable loading posts. A one-off cost of EUR 7 million is expected. The government instructs the Minister of Finance to draw up proposals to activate savings in sustainable, ecological projects. A consultation with the financial sector will be launched by Finance and Pensions Ministers to phase out fossil fuel investments in the second and third pension pillars. By 2030, FPIM will have completely withdrawn from companies that emit intensive greenhouse gases and are not actively committed to the energy transition. The necessary initiatives will be taken to shorten the procedures for the Council of State. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 4 million. For a number of measures, a business model on which private companies will be able to sign up will be developed. Private funding will be used. Let me list the projects involved. In the SNCB stations, photovoltaic solar panels and smartly steerable and bidirectional charging stations are installed in order to better manage the demand for electricity during the day. The estimated cost is EUR 150 million. For all federal government buildings, photovoltaic solar panels will be installed wherever possible. The estimated cost is EUR 300 million. All non-led lighting is phased out in the federal government buildings and SNCB stations. The estimated cost is EUR 30 million. The budgetary aspects of these measures will be integrated into budgetary control for 2022. Some measures come earlier in the short term, others in the medium and long term. In order to finance these measures, among other things, the higher proceeds from the repartition contributions for the year 2022, which are entered in the budget for the year 2023, shall be used. The income from the repartition contributions is highly dependent on the price of electricity. This revenue would amount to EUR 660 million in the year 2023, based on estimates of electricity prices in the year 2022. Differences with previous estimates can be explained by the increase in electricity prices during this year. In addition, an annual fee of EUR 20 million is paid to the State by the owners of the nuclear reactors Objective 1 and Objective 2. The proceeds of the fee are used annually to finance projects under the Energy Transition Fund. With regard to any additional taxes on energy companies, the CREG was asked to provide a study. On the basis of the results of this study, the government can take an initiative. As regards the supply of energy, on 18 March 2022 the Government took the decision in principle to extend the life of the Tihange 3 and Target 4 reactors by 10 years. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Energy have obtained a negotiating mandate for this purpose. However, the modalities for a possible extension depend on the negotiations with Engie. A possible extension of the lifetime of the two core rectors mentioned above would be deducted from the volume to be auctioned under the capacity remuneration mechanism, which would have a positive budgetary impact. However, the precise budgetary impact cannot be estimated before the auctions have actually taken place. The budget takes into account a cost for the CRM of EUR 312 million as from 2026. For further questions, please refer to the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, from the many information you have given me, two things have mainly remained with me. You said at one point that the FPIM would no longer invest in greenhouse gas companies or activities. Does that also mean that FPIM will no longer invest in our airports? After all, I suspect that there is an important investment there because of the FPIM. Secondly, you said that some of the measures just listed are included in the budgetary control that takes place during the Easter holiday, i.e. in the figures for 2022, and that you would take the additional revenue from the repartition contributions in 2023 to finance it. It seems particularly strange to me to use the additional revenue of 2023 for funding in the 2022 budgetary control. Maybe I misunderstood that. Would you mind explaining that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u38	As far as your first question is concerned, I have also said that it is about companies that emit intense greenhouse gas and are not actively committed to the energy transition. I believe that the energy transition can also be used at airports. To answer your other question, we will never transfer appropriations from financial year to financial year. Some measures are already starting and others are starting a little later. For the part in 2023 it is considered to finance this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u39	We will certainly question the Minister of Finance with regard to the FPIM. Airports and airlines are companies that emit intensive greenhouse gases. They can't fly jets on hydrogen overnight. It is therefore necessary to clarify the FPIM's commitment to our airports and our aviation sector. This is an important sector which is once again being plagued by a flight tax which, as was shown in plenary on Thursday, is still tied up with hooks and eyes. We'll bring it up with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u40	Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the ambition of budgetary control. It is a budgetary control, so normally you should be in line with the budget format and the ambition that is contained in it. My question is, in particular, whether the ambition will be reduced even more, given the current situation and the additional expenditure? What's your ambition? Is it your ambition to do real budgetary control? Or do you want to do more than a budgetary control? I'm having second thoughts. For example, there is a discussion about the 450 million in Defence, which is a serious additional question, but which is justified by the current context. However, it is difficult to assess exactly what your ambition is. We have heard that there has been a first meeting this weekend. I'm assuming this has been discussed? What level of aim are we aiming at?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u41	I have already told you, of course, it is always difficult for the negotiations to run ahead of the outcome and to say a lot about it. You yourself have indicated that these are very special circumstances in which we work. Of course, these particular circumstances will have an enormous impact on budgetary control. They will be a very important part of that. In response to previous questions, I have already indicated that we are working with enormous numbers of hypotheses. We cannot estimate how long everything will last. Whatever we lay down during this budgetary control, it is very difficult to say how it becomes concrete in the rest of the year. I very much hope that the war in Ukraine will end now, so to speak, and that all refugees can return to their country. Then the impact will be completely different. Then the result will also be different. However, we must provide the necessary funds to meet our humanitarian obligations if the crisis is to last longer. As far as other revenue and expenditure are concerned, there will of course be budgetary control. The extent to which all the measures agreed upon have already been implemented during the budget preparation will be examined. That piece is classic budgetary control, so to speak, but we have to take into account the exceptional circumstances that will have an impact on the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u42	In one answer you summarize our discussion over the last few weeks. I understand very well, it is a question of budgetary control and so you say that you will check whether the agreements made in this area, the reforms and the measures promised, have actually been implemented. In other words, that is classic budgetary control, which means that Mr Dermagne and Mrs Lalieux can simply carry on with what they apparently promised at the end of last year. At the same time, you say you have to spend extra money because of the exceptional circumstances. In this respect, it is not a classic budgetary control. Of course, it can't be "a little bit of both." A real choice must be made, if it is the ambition to remain within the framework. If the point is that there is additional expenditure that is justified due to current events - then it must also be the case that additional measures are taken to comply with previous commitments and the measures taken. It is not possible to spend more and at the same time not to see how we can reform more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u43	Question No 5502626320C by Mr Loones is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u45	Mr Loones, as far as the implicit index jump is concerned, the interventions and energy agreements that the government has already taken and concluded are not motivated by the fact that they have an impact on the timing of exceeding the central index, but by the concern of our citizens to alleviate somewhat their high-rise invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, that is a remarkably short answer, all the more so since Professor Peersman in De Standaard, in his very interesting piece of opinion, makes the painful observation that the government is de facto going through an index jump, specifically for the people who work and the middle class. Those who have it harder are rightly helped. Those who work and do their best not only have to pay the extra social expenses for others, but are also affected in their own purchasing power by loss of purchasing power, making them the child of the account. Professor Peersman makes that very clear as an index jump. Apparently that should not be said so much by the socialist partners in the government, but it is a reality. Those who work hard are getting worse. That's remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u47	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u48	Mr Loones, the adjustment of the funds to be received from the RRF does not in itself affect the government's balance of claims. According to the ESA rules, revenue and expenditure must always be balanced with European resources. However, if it appears that Belgium is effectively receiving less resources from the RRF and that the expenditure for the projects cannot be deducted proportionally, it would have an ESA impact. I have always communicated transparently on this in the past that this represented a risk to Belgian public finances. The federal share was committed at 1.25 billion euros. The government will have to decide on the projects initially envisaged and their financing methods at the time of the commitment of the final amounts, and consultations will be held with the sub-areas to see whether the proposed plan should be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, your answer is once again very interesting and is in line with the answer you just gave to Mr Vermeersch. At that time, you discussed very comprehensively whether the amount of money that Belgium receives from Europe will be even lower. I noticed that you were very detailed about how Member States can adapt and renegotiate their plans. You seemed to be insinuating that Belgium has intentions to change its agreements with Europe and renegotiate the plan. I read that in the answer to my question. You say that the government will have to decide how it would deal with any reduction in the amount. No, Europe has made a commitment to implement a number of reforms, which is linked to a cipher key, a logarithm with which an amount is calculated. That calculation doesn't change anything. The result of the calculation will change, because you have poorly negotiated, but you assume that this will allow you to achieve fewer projects. I wonder how Secretary of State Dermine will get that sold in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u50	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u51	Mr Loones, the figures from the Monitoring Committee show that the budget will deteriorate again if policies remain unchanged. This is mainly due to the cost of ageing. It should be noted that these figures do not take into account the variable effort which this government still wants to make and which should lead us towards European objectives. These figures should make everyone aware that there will be no simple budgetary exercise in the coming years. I have already said in reply to other questions that this government has concluded a labour deal and has implemented a mini-tax shift. I assume that the other planned reforms, such as pension reform, will also contribute to a higher employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, over and over again I will remind you of the same thing. In the eyes of the outside world, it is all about corona and Ukraine and the budget is not so important, but apparently there are also costs for the ageing population. A person might think it would be useful to see an active Minister of Pensions, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u53	Mr Vermeersch, I have already answered some of these questions in response to previous questions. The budget conclave will continue in the coming days. At that time, you will be clear about the decisions taken and their impact on the federal budget. Following this, a stability programme will have to be submitted to Europe by the end of April at the latest. This will include the budgetary targets for the next three years. There is therefore no point in prejudging these discussions at this stage. As you mentioned, this exercise will also have to incorporate the direct and indirect impact of the Ukraine crisis into the adjusted budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, we are looking forward to the April figures and the budgetary targets. I have one more question. The deficit of 3%, that's for the joint government, to make it clear, isn't it? That doesn't only apply to entity 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u55	In the table we entered in the coalition agreement, there was 2.6 % for entity 1, but I have to check. I don't know exactly how much was in front of entity 2, but that's where we got above 3%. Later that evolved to 3 % for entity 1, I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u56	That is, of course, a fundamental difference. 3% for the joint government, because that is ultimately Europe's budgetary objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u57	I know that the original European framework was indeed 3% together, but as we have said a few times here today, I am competent for entity 1. So the influence that I have relates to entity 1. I am keeping that 3% as an objective, but as I said, we do not know how long the Ukraine crisis and the corona crisis will last. It should always be the intention to go with the joint government to 3% by 2024. I have always said that we are working towards this, but it is very difficult to achieve that, given all the crises.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u58	You have always mentioned 3% in the press. If you are asked what your budgetary objective is in the context of the questions relating to European budgetary rules, you will answer 3%. It should always be made clear that it is 3% for the joint government. Of course, it's a lot easier to achieve 3 % with only entity 1. That is not a budgetary objective in itself. Could you please come back to that, so that we have it clearly on paper? This is important for 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u59	The Belgian ten-year interest rate is close to 1%. This has not yet been taken into account in the initial budget. For budgetary control, the government may base itself on the report of the Monitoring Committee. The Monitoring Committee report took into account, inter alia, a 10-year interest rate of 0.76% and expected an increase in interest charges of 205 million euro compared to the initial budget. The report also includes an estimate of the impact on interest charges of an increase in interest rates from March onwards. The increase of 100 basis points is estimated at an additional interest charge of around EUR 400 million for 2022. The impact will of course continue in the following years. Of course, the increase in interest rates also has an impact that goes beyond a linear impact on interest charges. There is an impact on the whole economy, including, for example, interest income, and hence the withholding tax. The effect of this is not easy to estimate. Not all interest rates are immediately reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u60	Thanks for the numbers. The EUR 400 million impact on the budget with an increase of 100 basis points may be the impact on entity 1 and not on the joint government. In fact, 660 million for entity 1 and about 820 million for the joint government were foreseen in the 2022 federal budget. You confirm that this is EUR 400 million for entity 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-03-29-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic741x.u61	I shall return to your previous question. We are indeed aiming for 3% for the joint government.
