ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u1	There are a lot of questions to Minister Vandenbroucke about non-corona-related matters. I have two more announcements in advance. Firstly, the Minister has indicated that he can only stay until 5 p.m. Secondly, the oral questions have apparently been discussed at the Conference of Presidents. I don't know what's good about it. I know, however, that if you refer to a written question, you have to confine yourself to the standard communication: 'I refer to my written question'. Nothing more. Either the question is asked as such. So it's one or the other, and not a combination of both. We'll start with a topical debate with nine questions about the recognition of sexologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u2	Mr Minister, I would have liked to have seen a state of affairs in particular. At the moment, the professional term clinical sexologist is not protected. This ensures that patients are not always 100 % sure that they have a helper with the right knowledge and competences in front of them. It is certainly not a new problem. If I'm well informed, you've already asked a lot of agencies for advice. What is the status of this file? What steps will you take in the coming period? Which bodies and organisations have been asked for advice? When are these opinions expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u3	Minister, we have talked about the legal recognition of the clinical sexologists before. I have also tabled a legislative proposal in this area. When discussing the policy paper, you referred me to an advisory question that you had submitted. You also indicated that the government had the will to recognise the professional title. During the covid crisis, citizens did not have it easy. The problem is also addressed in several reports on the mental well-being of the population. I would have liked to have heard from you about the state of play with regard to this request for an opinion. What is the time frame for deciding whether or not to recognise the clinical sexologists? When could the measure take effect, i.e. when could it be recognised? Now we're still in a kind of twilight zone, where people could go to care providers who aren't trained as a clinical sexologist, so their complaints and needs aren't properly monitored. I'm sure you won't be able to live with that, like us.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u4	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in Belgium, the profession of clinical sexologist is not yet registered as a healthcare profession. This function is therefore not legally regulated. In the absence of official recognition, anyone can claim to be "sexologist" or "coach in emotional and sexual relations". This is why the professional associations of sexologists, the Société des sexologists universitaires de Belgique (SSUB) and the Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie (VVS) have recently undertaken a joint approach to the recognition of clinical sexology. In its opinion of December 2016, the Higher Council of Health (SSC) had, moreover, already positioned itself in favour of the recognition of clinical sexology and had proposed various recommendations, in particular as regards the course of training. Minister, has the FPS Public Health ever worked on the recognition of such status for the profession? If so, where are we in the process of thinking? What analysis has emerged from the recommendations made by the CSS? Are you planning to take initiatives in the near future? Is consultation with professionals under way? Moreover, the question arises of the legal certainty and the impact of changes made for these professionals in the event of recognition, especially for those who already practised sexology before the development of a statute. Finally, the CSS clearly recommended to develop a reflection on the management by INAMI of consultations in a clinician sexologist. What is the situation in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u6	Minister, I have been working on the subject for a long time. You replied to my previous question that there is an advisory question before the Federal Council for the mental health professions. What is the status of the work, inter alia in the light of the recognition of clinical sexologists? For the rest, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u7	Mr President, Minister, a year ago, you received the Belgian trade associations of sexology, both French and Dutch-speaking. The question now is, in fact, the protection of patients or persons who consult clinician sexologists and who must be guaranteed the quality of the people to whom they are addressing. It is therefore necessary for these persons to be given qualified training and to be in a position to provide the best possible response to the requests of the persons who consult them. It is in this spirit that training and recognition of the title are very positive elements that should take place as soon as possible. I know that a working group has been set up and I would like to know the composition of the working group. Are the representatives of professional associations members? I would also like to be informed about the number of practitioners practising clinical sexology in our country today. On the other hand, I would like to see an update on the results of the negotiations and proposals in this working group, so that we can move forward as quickly as possible and provide security for those who consult with clinician sexologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the Society of University Sexologists of Belgium and the Vlaamse Vereniging voor Seksuologie, the professional associations of Walloon and Flemish sexologists have been working together for several months in a common approach aimed at the recognition of clinical sexology. It is true that there is a well-known framework. In 2016, the Higher Council of Health had already submitted an extremely precise opinion, accompanied by a series of recommendations, both on the definition of the function, on the profile of competences to be acquired, on the training, on the recognition requiring the establishment of an order of sexologists and a ethical framework. It would be both a recognition for new people, but also a procedure for sexologists already practising. At the time, six years ago, the CSS also proposed that the reimbursement of clinician sexologists' consultations by INAMI be examined. This is an important issue for legal supervision and quality care for clinician sexologists, as well as patients. Minister, what is your position on this? What action have you taken at the request of sexologists? What's the calendar? It is now really time to reach a solution in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u9	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u10	In December last year I took the initiative to ask for an opinion on this matter from the Federal Council for the mental health professions. After all, the landscape of mental health care has changed a lot since the opinion of the 2016 Supreme Health Council. The new advice of the Federal Council for the mental health professions can respond to this. I expect this opinion by 15 May 2022. During the work and preparation of the opinion, the various interest groups will be consulted. Within the Council, a working group has been set up to discuss this issue. It is composed of members of the Federal Council of Mental Health Care Professions, but also invites experts in the field of sexology to share their views. Guest experts come from the teaching community, centres of expertise, etc. The professional associations of the Flemish sexologists association and the Société des Sexologists Universitaires de Belgique are also involved. As I have just said, I am waiting for this opinion by 15 May. On the basis of that opinion and also of earlier opinions of the Supreme Health Council, a proposal for a draft law can then be drawn up. We will, of course, consult with the field of work and the various interest groups. I have another answer to Mr Bacquelaine's question. Mr Bacquelaine, you are asking for figures on the number of clinician sex practitioners, on the number of students starting sexology training and on the users of care. To the extent that sexologists are not yet recognized as health professionals, no quantitative data is unfortunately available.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u11	Thank you, Minister. More questions than answers today, but the trial is ongoing, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the very brief answer. We had asked when this opinion was expected, and we now have an answer to that. I regret that it takes so long to get an opinion that should only be an update on something that had already started in the previous legislature. We're used to getting advice faster. I think it's gonna take a hell of a long time. In covidtimes we have already heard a lot of cry from mental health care. This could really help. If there's anything you can do to speed up the process, we're on your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u13	Mr. Secretary of State, speaking of efficiency. On 1 October 2020, you became Minister of Health. I believe that something was included in the coalition agreement, but there was still some disagreement. Mrs Muylle had already taken an initiative in the previous legislature, together with my colleagues Yoleen Van Camp and Valerie Van Peel. Then it will take a year and a half to formulate an opinion. Perhaps you could discuss for another year and a half until the elections. That's too bad. When I listen to Mrs Creemers, I also hear the displeasure in the government parties about the slowness of this dossier. Mental health is supposedly very high on the agenda, but in practice very little can be seen of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will, of course, come back to you after 15 May. I'll be ready from the 16th.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. At last the timing is known, even though I regret that it must all take so long. Of course, we are not starting from a white paper, because in the previous legislature there was already extensive discussion about the recognition of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogic doctors. On the basis of these reports, we already have a great deal of information. Many legislative initiatives were also taken in our Committee on Health. When you have the opinion, after 15 May, I therefore hope that you will also involve Parliament, because there is also a lot of expertise in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u16	Minister, I can only endorse the observation that it is taking a very long time and that it remains awaiting recognition. We stress that sexual problems should be regarded as health problems. Once there is recognition, such treatments should therefore be eligible for reimbursement, similar to the way in which they are now being applied to other psychological care. After all, sexual health is part of the general health care system.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I believe that the impossibility of responding to the requests for figures is sufficient proof that the recognition of clinician sexologists is urgent and that there is a need for rapid progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u18	Minister, I find it difficult to understand why, after such a specific opinion as that of the 2016 Supreme Council of Health, we need to ask for a new opinion before we can work on a bill. I do not understand that we do not yet have a draft bill, especially since, after that, the new discussions will take some time. I understand that you have a lot of work to do at the government level, but let us leave our hands to Parliament. Let's work on it at the level of Parliament and we could succeed. You also did not reply to me regarding the reimbursement of clinical sexology consultations. That seems important to me. Let's not leave this point aside! We've already lost a lot of time. I urge you to make this explicit as soon as legislation is passed. Sexual health also contributes to general well-being. I hope that we will not have to wait yet and that by May we will be able to make concrete progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u19	Thank you for your answer. We may regret that it is all taking a long time, but what we must remember is that the work of recognition is being done and that there is a solution in sight. We continue to follow the issue and I look forward to the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u20	Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers and for the steps you have taken, although, like my colleagues, I must regret that this outcome is finally very late. You're announcing an opinion for May 15. We have been waiting for this opinion for a very long time. You will then have to work on this bill. We have the impression that you're going to start from scratch when opinions already exist. This working group has been working for several months. I was asking you why it was so difficult to get to this case. You're not answering. You give a date, a first step anyway. This is extremely problematic because it means that, for at least a long time, clinical sexology will remain under the supervision of a third profession, whereas it is a profession in its own right that deserves to be recognised as such especially in view of two elements that I want to highlight. First, the influence of pornographic sites today, the permanent sexualization of women, social networks, all these phenomena mean that today, young people in particular are very quickly lost in their sexuality. They are quickly ill in their skin, which may lead them to accept sexual practices that do not match them. Besides this, there is also the health crisis that has really disrupted the sexual life of many couples. Just these two factors, Minister, mean that today, the cross-cutting approach to sexual health that this profession allows today must be recognized as being of public benefit. Sexual education for young and old, gender awareness, prevention of STDs and STDs, contraception, EVRAS, work with victims of sexual abuse, couples' therapies, support for persons with disabilities or surgery who have sexual disorders, all of these approaches are undertaken by sexologists and deserve recognition as such. They must be given the recognition they deserve, as did the recognition obtained at the time by the psychotherapists, unfortunately after too long a battle.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u21	Mr Minister, at a police check in Limburg, a new drug, which reaches us from the United States, was recovered from several users who moved by car. It is not unknown to you that I am concerned about how many young users are transforming creatively legal resources into roasts. Previously, I also put the use of nitrous oxide on the agenda. I am pleased that many good steps have been taken in this area and that an evaluation is currently under way with a working group evaluating the new drug phenomena. Are other resources such as Lean included in the work of the working group? In addition, I believe that we should develop a broad and comprehensive framework that also applies to medicinal products, including prescription-free medicines. I believe that the starting point should be mainly the ingredients and less the categories of resources. After all, we see that drug users are unfortunately creative and smart enough to look up drugs and use certain ingredients from them and mix them together because of their raison d'être. Do you have any figures on the trade in products containing codeine and promethazine, as these two ingredients are very often mixed into a drug? Can you release its share of prescription-free medicines? Do you have an overview of that? Is the policy to regulate the distribution of that medication safer being pursued? That is the framework I asked for earlier. Is there coordination between the Justice and Home Affairs Departments on the new emerging drugs? What exactly is that all about? You've probably heard about the new drug, Lean. Do you have any idea if the saliva tests used in police checks are strong enough to find Lean among road users?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u22	Mrs Farih, in Belgium, codeine-based medicines can only be obtained on medical prescription. No medicinal product is authorised on the basis of promethazine. In Belgium 26 medicinal products, of which 20 are also effectively commercialised, have been authorised on the basis of dextrometorphan medicinal products, all free of prescription or on written request. These are 15 medicines in the form of an oral syrup or solution, in a bottle, and 3 in sachets. In addition, 2 are also available as suction tablets. There is currently no initiative to review the delivery method of these medicines or to regulate their distribution more strictly. It is evident that they should be used according to the approved indications and at the recommended dose. I refer to the role of the pharmacist who is responsible for its delivery. The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products is not aware that there would be a generalised problem. It has therefore not launched any initiatives in this respect. More generally, there is cooperation between the different services to quickly identify new forms of use and take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u23	Minister, I am sorry to hear that people would not be aware of the rise of this drug, or at least not in a general way. I've seen it come back more and more. I am, of course, a young MEP myself. I see in different networks and in different age categories around me that the drug is making Lean and big advance. I would ask you to pay particular attention not only to the regulation of medicines but also to the detection of these drugs in the various controls. If one cannot detect them, one cannot, of course, pursue appropriate policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u24	I don't have any reliable figures on that. Moreover, not only prescription drugs can be potentially risky. Non-regulatory medicinal products, as well as vitamins and food supplements, as well as food and alcohol can also be potentially harmful. Data collection is not easy as pregnant women are not included in clinical studies for obvious reasons. A teratogenic information service has not yet been established. However, the FAGG has already made an initial analysis of what TIS's tasks would be and what resources would be needed to do so. However, due to other priorities related to the covid crisis, this project has not yet continued. Side effects for medicinal products used in pregnant women are, like all other side effects, monitored continuously in pharmacovigilance. As for all other medicinal products and all other specific populations, the first point of contact is the doctor or pharmacist. The care professional can also address the FAGG. To part three of your question, I can answer that in the latest biennial report 2018-2019 of the National Evaluation Committee for Pregnancy Abruptment on page 56 it is stated that in 2019 a woman had a pregnancy break after 12 weeks of pregnancy due to the use of a certain medication, namely the taking of Isotrétinoine, formerly known as Roaccutaneouse. As of 15 October 2018, the new law on voluntary termination of pregnancy abolished the mandatory notification of the emergency situation, which means that women are no longer obliged to notify the executive physician of the possible intake or use of medication. In the periodic safety reports which the pharmaceutical company is required to submit and which, on the basis of the adverse reactions reported with its medicinal product, must justify that the risk-benefit analysis remains favourable, it should also include known data for special populations. In addition to children and the elderly, they are also pregnant women.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u25	Thank you, Minister. I think such a teratogenic information service (TIS) is really necessary, even if it is only to reassure doctors and patients. Now Belgian patients often search for information on different websites and often arrive at a TIS in the Netherlands. It would therefore be good if we followed the FAGG's recommendation and, after the corona crisis, finally set up a database in which doctors and patients, and certainly those who are pregnant, can get information again, if they are concerned about certain medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u26	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u27	Mrs Merckx, the Zolgensma agreement explicitly refers to the uncertainties surrounding follow-up therapy after treatment with Zolgensma. Experience with the concomitant use of agents targeting 5q SMA is limited and the manufacturer should collect more evidence or benefit patients from concomitant or sequential use of different therapies in the treatment of SMA. The reimbursement of simultaneous or sequential use within SMA shall take into account specific conditions of reimbursement of each medicinal product concerned. The conditions for reimbursement of Zolgensma, drawn up by the Commission on the basis of expert opinions, state that Zolgensma is not being reimbursed simultaneously with another medicinal product that acts specifically on the functioning and/or production of SMN protein. This means, in concrete terms, that an earlier therapy, such as nuiners or Spinraza, must be stopped before Zolgensma can be compensated. Afterwards, the treating physician should determine whether or not a patient achieves the expected outcome after treatment with Zolgensma and needs another treatment in a second time. This must, of course, be done in accordance with the conditions of reimbursement of the other treatment, and must be done in a responsible way, as is always the case with medicinal products, and certainly with extremely expensive medicines. For example, a patient who has not been treated with Spinraza before Zolgensma today, at the request of the treating doctor, may subsequently receive compensation for Spinraza. However, a patient cannot be treated with Spinraza both before and after Zolgensma under the current conditions. If more information becomes available, the remuneration conditions may be revised in the future. I cannot give you details of the relative share of Zolgensma within the entire SMA budget because there is no formal part budget for the treatment of SMA. As with other medicines, SMA medicines are also subject to a thorough evaluation by the Commission of the effectiveness, medical needs and impact on their budget. After that, after the agreement of the Minister for the Budget and therefore after the opinion of the Finance Inspector, I shall take a reasoned decision on compensation. However, it is a good thing that you mention, since in general, any decision that is taken must make the assumption that the healthcare budget, in this case the pharmaceutical budget, is a budget with limits. We are therefore consciously monitoring the proper application and allocation of available resources. Any decision should consider that reimbursement of expensive medical technologies should not lead to displacement of other, specifically useful and cost-effective care. The discussions in Flanders on the inclusion of SMA in the helprik screening of babies have been going on for some time now. Minister Beke, like the ministers of the other sub-areas, was aware that there was a CTG procedure and what the indicative timelines were. I remember communicating that openly in the Chamber, in response to questions. From a preventive point of view, the decision is not surprising, as it is important to intervene as quickly as possible to control the disease as effectively as possible. During the CTG procedure, screening in Belgium, which was available and foreseen, was divided by sub-area, one of the parameters taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u28	Minister, it is important that old therapies such as Spinraza (Nusinersen) remain available to patients when new therapy is available. As you say, Spinraza or before or after. That is a problem for someone who already took it and then could only get gene therapy. You say this was one of the parameters. The question about the helprik came because the more we screen, the more and faster we can detect that disease. This can affect the budget by allowing more children to benefit quickly. Furthermore, there are more and more gene therapies on the market, which are very expensive. This is a wider problem that needs to be addressed. It is very unfortunate that we are getting very vague answers each time, because of secret contracts. That is a fundamental problem. The affordability and accessibility of our healthcare system can only be maintained if transparency is provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u29	Mr President, I propose that Mrs Muylle first ask her question, because I do not think my written record is direct.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I tabled this question at the time in response to reports on social media referring to the working groups in function of HBO5. There are two working groups, one on basic nursing and one on specialised nursing. They didn't go well. There were reports on social media saying that HBO5s would lose their title retroactively. In the meantime, there has been more nuance in the debate. In view of the whole problem, which I am not going to repeat, we know it well in this committee, I would like to ask you the following. You have two working groups in place. They should come to advice, together with the field of work, both on basic nursing and on specialised nursing. We hear echoes that basic nursing is very difficult with regard to HBO5 and the title of HBO5 nurse. What's the status? We understand that these working groups have always been extended. When is final advice expected? How do you see the further work?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u31	Mr President, Minister, there is a great deal of concern among the HBO5 nurses about the European guidelines for training, which make training for nurses more difficult. The debate has also not always been transparent. Real participation in the field was not sufficiently organised. Since September 2021, an interfederal task force has been working with working groups to provide advice and input for concrete proposals on the future of the nursing profession, based on government agreements. There is also little transparency and insufficient involvement of the broad field of work in this work. There was a great deal of concern in the field about the future of the HBO5 nurses, although a large part of the nurses in the field. The Flemish government and the federal government parties and N-VA are putting forward a solution to create a separate profile. According to the Belgian Federation of HBO5, this is degrading the current HBO5 nurses and it is a disguised saving operation. There are normally hearings in Parliament, but at the same time we are working behind the scenes on a detailed function model. Trade unions and nurses in the workplace feel very little involved. A final report had to be submitted by 31 December, but it has now apparently been sent back to the working groups. A new result is expected at the end of February. Mr Minister, why does the final report need to be reworked? Who controlled that? Are the trade unions involved in the redevelopment and in the working groups? Will the working groups be extended and, if so, with whom? Will the final report be discussed in Parliament? What do you mean by an independent profile and can you motivate it? Do you not think that the decision to create a separate profile will lead to even more loss in the sector, whereas the sector can absolutely miss it at the moment? What do you think of the solution proposed by health care workers in the workplace, to extend the number of study years by six months of extra paid internship in order to make the training Eurocompliant? What do you think of the proposal of the HBO5 Federation to reform the training according to the clinical ladder of nurses, whereby EU-compliant HBO5 nurses form the basis of ladder level 5, followed by specialised nurses level 6, nursing specialists level 7 and nursing researchers level 8?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u32	Ms Muylle, Ms Merckx, on 1 September 2021, a task force was launched with the implementation of the Federal Government Agreement on Nursing Profiles and Trainings, a Task Force on the Function Model. This is an inter-federal initiative, supported by all the ministers responsible for health and education. The aim is to formulate concrete proposals for the development of a futureproof function model in nursing care. The task force brings together the actors from both the nursing sector and the field of education and is divided into two working groups, a basic working group and a specialization working group. A Chairman and Vice-President has been appointed for each working group, taking into account the linguistic balance. A steering committee composed of the Chairs, Vice-Presidents and Cabinets of the Ministers responsible closely follows the work of the Task Force. The Steering Committee has determined the composition of the working groups and all relevant sectors are included, both hospitals, home care, care for the elderly and the field of education. In practice, the Belgian Federation of HBO Nurses (BFHBOV) only represents level 5 nurses in Flanders. The AUVB, which as umbrella organisation represents all nurses, both bachelors and HBO5 nurses, was therefore asked to provide representation in both working groups of the Task Force. The Steering Committee also specifically took the initiative to invite the BFHBOV to the meeting on 14 October of the Working Party on Basic Training in order to present its views and views on all members. Over the past few weeks, I have noted with you and with Mrs Muylle that several wrong messages have been spread about the purpose and purpose of the task force. I therefore think it is important to stress the following. The task force operates according to an inter-federally agreed procedure, in line with the respective government agreements, and follows a strict timetable. The mandate of the Task Force ran until the end of last year and was extended by the Steering Committee concerned. In the meantime, the Specialization Working Group has completed its final report. The other working group, Basic Training, will have the time until the end of February, i.e. until soon. The final reports will include the opinions of the relevant sectors, education and the broad nursing sector, on the basis of which further elaboration and implementation should be discussed in the IMC Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u33	Mr. Secretary, I'm still hungry. You did not specifically say which direction you want to go. The problem is that the HBO5 nurses feel very excluded and believe that they are not being heard sufficiently. They are involved in one working group, but not in the other. Nor did you express a specific opinion on the extension of study years with an additional six months' paid internship. That is actually all it takes to make the training euro conform. That wouldn't make the training too much more difficult. Of course, we need people on the ground. Finally, you did not answer the question of what will happen to the current HBO5 nurses. What is their future in the field if a new function is created? Today they already provide specialised care. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u34	Minister, I understand that there is not much you can say now. It is well known that the working groups were extended, that there was a preliminary report and that Flanders did not agree. The title and tasks of the HBO5 nurses remain difficult points. To Mrs Merckx, I would like to point out that the HBO5 nurses are very clear to us, not only in terms of name and autonomy. We are convinced that we can employ HBO5 nurses in many situations of trust and have full confidence in them as nurses. We do not consider the proposed reform to be a degradation of those concerned or a saving operation, as she calls it. Minister, I would ask you and colleagues in the Länder to look at the matter with an open eye. We need the hands and qualities of each profile. We must conduct the debate openly. It will certainly continue soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u35	Mr Minister, this question concerns the malpractice of sperm donation. We often hear about this in the media, including last week. Against the current legislation on medically assisted reproduction, hundreds of donations were made decades ago at fertility centres, while the law on medically assisted reproduction makes it very clear that one donor should only be involved in six women in relation to pregnancies. Due to the lack of national registration of donors, donors were able to apply to multiple fertility centres. The aim of the 2007 Law was to put a stop to this and to establish a central information and exchange system between fertility centres. However, we still find 14 years later that there is no national registration. Why is that? Why is it not possible to set up such a national registration centre from the federal level? It is also noted, especially in Western Europe, that the anonymity of sperm donation is being lifted in several countries. Belgium is now one of the last countries where it still applies. Recently, France abolished anonymity. In total, there are nine countries in the European Union where anonymity has already been abolished and this has already been done in many countries outside the European Union. I have been preparing a bill since 2016 to eliminate anonymity. After all, reality is catching up with the fact that there are a lot of DNA databases with exchange, so anonymity is no longer of this time. It also runs counter to international conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 8 states that there is a right to identity, as is Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Why is there still no national registration centre for information exchange on donation? Are you working on that? Can we expect this? How do you feel about the evolution of anonymous donation? Are we going to lift that anonymity? In this way, the right to identity can be exercised.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u36	Minister, I will not repeat what Mr Van Hoof said. It has summarised the problem very well and indicated what a large part of the solution should be. However, our country lags very much behind in this respect, while in other matters we are very progressive when it comes to ethical debates. These are yet another questions we are asking. The reason for this is that there was another person in the news who claimed to have been a sperm donor up to 500 times. Several children may have emerged from it. This is contrary to the relevant legislation. This is one of many things that has emerged. A while ago, there was also the case of a triplet who came into the world after sperm donation, revealing that two of the three are of the same father but the third are not. They have therefore worked there with a mix of sperm, without informing the parents. A lot of things come up regularly and many more things remain under the radar. When anonymity is lifted, it is becoming more and more public. The Netherlands has gone before us, with not too good stories. I am also afraid that the resistance from the sector to abolish anonymity has a lot to do with that, as perhaps less fun things could emerge. It is high time that we pierced that and that after all these years we put the best interests of the children first. As the Convention on the Rights of the Child states in Articles 7 and 8, each child has the right to know his or her parents and to know his or her lineage. Minister, have the spirits of your coalition partners matured in this respect? Unfortunately, ethical issues seem to be discussed there first. Is there an option? How do you feel about following other progressive countries inside and outside Europe and abolishing the anonymity of donors, of course with respect for the past? There is no case for retroactive abolition, but for any right to release such data if it has been anonymous at the time. I'm coming back to the case. Even without these anonymous donations, it is crucial that that database is put in place and works well. I put several questions to your predecessor, Mrs De Block, in the previous legislature. She replied that the link between the registration of Game Donations and the coded identity of the recipients in Belrap had to deal with methodological and IT problems. I wonder if they've been solved by now. At the time, the cabinet also said that the GDPR would not be an obstacle because the public health interest required would be a very easy slope. Do you have an insight into the further development of this file? Are there any other slopes that can speed this up? How will it be verified whether registration contains all the necessary, and especially coherent, data? Are there monitoring mechanisms for this? The stories that come up prove the need for this. Two brief questions to my second question. Are you thinking of making the purchase of a DNA sample free for donors and donor children, as with our northern neighbors? Moreover, DNA agreements between half-brothers and sisters can even be sought in the Netherlands. We can't do that. That is where it works as an optional option for those who have been covered by anonymous legislation in the past. Of course, all this has changed since the abolition. Finally, what do you think about a review of the previous registrations at all centres and even at doctors who used to have a private practice in that domain, in order to capture the number of superdonors that are far from super super. I think that is absolutely necessary. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Van Peel, as you know, the reduction of donations by game donors was not strictly regulated for 2007. By the law of 2007, the purpose of limiting the number of anonymous donations is to prevent two children produced from a fertility treatment from meeting, and there is a blood-related marriage without their self-knowing. In accordance with this 2007 Act, fertility centres conclude agreements with all persons, i.e. donors, but also recipients, to clarify the rights and obligations of everyone in relation to information, consent, and medical care. In addition to medical care, much attention is also paid to the ethics and moral well-being of donors and recipients treated in our Belgian centres. When the gametes are assigned to a doctoral programme, the fertility centre consulted should make all data that would allow the donor to identify inaccessible. Non-anonymous donation resulting from an agreement between the donor and the recipient or recipients is permitted. My administration analyses the feasibility of carrying out a data exchange project between fertility centres. In concrete terms, the project consists of the creation of a platform which, in accordance with the GDPR, uses different databases, namely those of the centres and of the FAGG. The project aims to implement Articles 35 and 64 of the Law of 6 July 2007 by providing a digital tool. The implementation of an internal feasibility analysis shall be completed in order to assess in concrete terms the extent to which the practical implementation can be achieved. Since the primary objective of the project is to provide fertility centres with an automated tool to facilitate compliance with the rule on child begetting for up to six women, technical consultations with industry representatives will soon be organised, consolidating the ongoing analysis. So I would also urge that the project be progressed quickly, because that is one of the concerns of the questioners. I will answer your questions regarding the lifting of anonymity. There are three types of donors: anonymous donors, well-known donors, who may be friends or relatives, and donors with an open profile. In the latter species, the child is given the possibility to receive the data from the age of 16 or 18. Only anonymous and well-known donors are currently allowed in Belgium. In the Netherlands, reference has already been made to the category of anonymous donors no longer since the 2004 law. The question of removing anonymity is a complex and sensitive ethical issue involving many parents and children. The Belgian Consultative Committee on Bioethics has already looked into it in the past and could not reach a consensus. It is about what right one sets hierarchically over the other: the rights of the donor, the parents or the child who has the right to know what his origin is. The different perspectives must be taken into account in the discussion. There are, of course, implications in removing anonymity, such as the possible impact on the availability of donor gametes and others. I am open to the debate. We need to look at the consequences. The opinion of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics dates back to 2004. I think that has also been explained by the authors of the report that the spirit of time has changed and I will therefore ask for an update of that opinion. Meanwhile, several European countries have also abolished anonymity. I am thinking of Sweden, Austria, Norway and others. This is typically a subject on which Parliament can start the debate, pending a new opinion which I would like to ask for. In Belgium, DNA can already be analysed and recorded in public DNA databases, for a fee. For example, donors and donor children can find matches on a voluntary basis through these databases. In the Netherlands, registration in DNA databases was made free of charge. The law abolishing anonymity from the age of sixteen dates back to 2004. This has led to a difference for donors and donor children for 2004 and after 2004. For children and donors who fall under the 2004 law, therefore, the initiative has been taken to register for free in a DNA bank. This can also be seen in Belgium in the context of the wider debate. This can also be taken into account by the Committee on Bioethics. There are, of course, other aspects to this. That must also be looked at in concrete, technical, budgetary and so on. This idea can also be taken into account. It is therefore useful to ask the Bioethics Committee for its opinion again on this issue, so that Parliament is fed up with new elements from our own advisory bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u38	Minister, I am pleased with your answer. It is already more positive than your predecessor said at the time. As regards national registration, technical consultations are under way to consolidate the ongoing analysis. Fast progress is also being made. Hopefully it can be implemented quickly. You actually have to rely on the donors. You can have them sign a paper, but someone can just as easily go to another fertility center and do the same thing again. That person might get paid for it, and for students it might be tempting. In these times, you wouldn't do that so soon anyway. The spirit of time has changed in that sense. The chance that the person may later be confronted with his potential children has also become very great. I hope that national registration will succeed this year. After hearing your explanation, I think this should work. We will certainly also question you about this. It is good that you are also open to a debate on the lifting of anonymity. An update of the opinion of the Bioethics Committee is also necessary. I hope they will be able to deliver an opinion soon. There will be new debates, for example on surrogacy. It is important that we can take that advice with us. After all, we do not want to create new cases without solving the old problems. I therefore hope that this opinion will be delivered in good time. This also brings me to the Flemish Pedigree Centre, which has now been launched. I am told that they receive thousands of questions from people who are looking and cannot answer them. Yesterday we had a debate with the metises. In addition to the Flemish Descendant Centre, they asked for a Walloon Descendant Centre to be set up. The questions are huge, both in adoptants and metises and in people who have come to the world by anonymous donation. They have the right to identity and the right to know their parents. That is very high on my agenda, and I think it is also the one of my esteemed colleague. People are not entitled to children, but they are entitled to parents. That's what the human rights treaties say. I hope that we will be able to comply with them in this area as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u39	Minister, I agree with what Mrs Van Hoof said. I believe that the debate on rights should not be so difficult. I don't think there's such a thing as the right to a child. What certainly doesn't exist is the right to give donations. If new legislation is to be made, donors' rights must be clear in advance. If we do not agree with the legislation, we must not be a donor. I think the child's right should really be put first here. I think this is becoming more and more obvious to society. I therefore believe that we need to step up this legislative process in this area. I submitted a proposal on this matter a long time ago. I would be happy if the debate could finally take place again. It would indeed be useful if an updated opinion of the Bioethics Committee would be added. I am slightly less positive about your response to central registration, Minister. I hear a lot about research, feasibility and technicality. The law dates back to 2007. We've been 15 years. It really does not seem to me that difficult to centralize that data and to launch an investigation to see where it went wrong. I believe that this is due to the unwillingness of the sector, rather than to IT problems or technical problems. I heard Mrs Van Hoof interpret it as an answer when you say it will be all right this year. I didn't understand it that way, but if that's your answer, then I'm totally with you. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u40	Mrs van Peel, I did not say that it will be all right this year. You won't hear me make statements like that so soon. I did say I was pressing for an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u41	Well, those political terms... Mrs Van Peel, would you like to replicate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u42	Minister, that is indeed a very big difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u43	Mrs. Van Peel, I assume you're only halfway there.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u44	Questions No 55023385C by Mrs Farih, No 55023468C by Mrs Depoorter and No 55023689C by Mr Prévot were postponed. Question 55023471C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed. Mrs Depoorter has asked for all her questions to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u45	Minister, not a day goes by or there is talk of the long waiting times in psychiatry. This question dates back to 16 December. Research by VTM News and The Last News at 125 psychiatrists showed that one psychiatrist in three has entered a patient stop. The waiting times are killingly long. I heard the testimony of a young man with an autism spectrum disorder suffering from suicidal thoughts. His family had been looking for acute help for weeks. Time and again, people are confronted with long queues and promises of returning calls. The stories are really poignant. Your opinion was also sought in the newspaper articles. You said you didn't want to bet on more psychiatrists, because you think there are already enough psychiatrists in Belgium. "We have a large number of psychiatrists compared to other countries," you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u46	A large number of psychologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u47	The article by De Morgen contains a large number of psychiatrists, but you can disprove it later. It certainly was in the newspaper article. You said you wanted to invest smartly. You referred to EUR 200 million. How exactly do you see the distribution of the 200 million euros annually? What do you mean, smart investments? How can investment help to reduce the extremely long waiting periods? Why shouldn't there be more psychiatrists? What are your plans? How do you intend to promote cooperation between the different actors in order to achieve a more coherent approach to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u48	Mrs Merckx, I would first like to explain where we stand with the reform of mental health care in the first line. After that, I will give you a number of elements about our efforts in psychiatry. They are very important. With regard to the first line, you know that we are rolling out a global reform to make mental health much better equipped, better organised, more affordable and more accessible in the first line. That's not just about an historically important investment. We add EUR 112 million to an existing budget, which is multiplied by four. We invest 152 million euros structuralally in mental health in the first line. We are also making a number of other efforts. With this important investment, we make mental health in the first line affordable and therefore more accessible. Moreover, there is a fundamental reform in the sense that we move away from the idea that mental health in the first line only means that individual sessions are organised for patients in individual clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues. Even if that's important, we need to do a lot more. We need to organise meeting places based on needs with people who often express problems of mental well-being. There we need to be able to offer people early help. This concerns both general practitioners and OCMWs, social organisations, youth work and schools. I have asked the mental health networks not only to provide a growing supply of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogic doctors who are convenient and can provide individual assistance, but also to identify, by region, the sites for people with problems, their meeting places, and to explore how networks with branches of mental health care can be created, inter alia, in primary health care with general practitioners, in schools and OMCWs. They're working on it. For Flanders, I hope that by the end of the month those meeting places will be identified, so that a concrete offer will also be rolled out. That's very important. It's about a fundamental reform, really a culture shift. It takes time. It will take about until the summer, before the whole model is fully rolled out. After all, they also want to proceed carefully and step by step, but in the meantime, Mrs Merckx, the individual offer is growing strongly. I'll give you a few figures. In March of last year there was an offer of psychological care in primary care, calculated on a monthly basis and in hours, of 29.855 hours. In January of this year, with the new convention, that number has already grown to 41.916 hours. The number has thus grown, from completed 30,000 hours of available psychologists offering a first session for free and the next sessions for 11 euros in March to nearly 42,000 hours of available psychologists now. This is a growth of 40%. The offer for young people has grown by 50%. That offer's on the table. In March last year, 5.565 sessions were held and in January of this year 22.373. This is a growth of 400 %. Why do I insist? That's not because the work is done. It is a first result of the new convention and the supply needs to grow further. The number of first-line psychological assistance sessions has thus increased four times between March of last year and January of this year. That is particularly important. In the meantime, the reform is being further extended. In addition, we make important investments in mental health care on a more specialised basis, in psychiatry, and in particular child and youth psychiatry. This year I want to launch an additional investment of EUR 51 million, which is in the scaffolding. 35 million of these are for children and young people. We are talking about the age of up to 23 years. That's an investment I want to phase out this year and next year. I would like to strengthen the outpatient offer by the autumn of 2022. This means that the temporary initiative I have taken for liaison teams in hospitals in support of child and youth psychiatry can be made structural. This also means a further expansion of opportunities in the provision of outpatient care. This also means that the current under-financing of projects for children who have committed a crime will strengthen the so-called forensic K-projects, for-K. In 2023, we will further strengthen the hospital offer. This is therefore about investments of EUR 35 million with hopefully an impact on the ground by autumn of this year and in 2023, specifically aimed at children's and youth psychiatry. In addition, I have EUR 16 million auctioning for initiatives, for which I call on the networks to strengthen the supply for adults before the summer, including by focusing on better crisis relief in hospitals. Together, this is 51 million euros. We haven't been idle. In view of the needs on the ground, we have already strengthened the mobile crisis teams for children and young people, amounting to EUR 4.7 million. In concrete terms, it means 50 FTEs additional work in the mobile crisis teams. It's about psychologists, psychiatric nurses, orthopedagogics, network psychiatrists. In addition, I have invested a budget of 15.9 million euros in 55 children's psychiatric services. Then that's about completed 217 FTE's psychologists, psychiatric nurses and orthopedagogics. 217. The aim is to bridge waiting times for children and young people who are waiting for hospitalisation, as well as to speed up dismissal from the hospital. This is very important because it can help make existing capacity available in hospitals for more children and young people, thus leading to better pre- and post-care. In addition, I invested 20.3 million in the mobile teams for the elderly, a new initiative. This is about an expansion of staff, mainly psychologists, as well as social assistants and experience experts, accounting for 244 FTE. In short, this is a very important investment. If I turn that off, I'll be close to 500 FTEs of psychologists, psychiatric nurses, orthopedagogics, psychiatrists employed for crisis care, for better care for children and young people in hospitals and psychiatric units, as well as for mobile interventions for elderly people with severe mental health problems. That's a big deal. Is that enough? You don't hear me say that. We have also taken temporary measures. I remind the group sessions of psychological care for students. We also provided 23 liaison teams or 62 FTE in the non-psychiatric services of hospitals for children and young people. This allows a capacity of 160 beds in which children and young people with eating disorders, for example, can be upgraded with psychiatric framework. These 23 liaison teams have been invested in hospitals and thus form a bridge between psychiatric services and, for example, pediatrics, especially for children with eating disorders. They will remain in post until 31 July. However, it is my intention to anchor this in a structural way, using the EUR 35 million I spoke of. In addition, we also had a project of free sessions for self-employed people with problems of mental well-being, which for understandable reasons is a common problem at this time. That project of free sessions at clinical psychologists runs until the end of this month and will then be completed. So we are making very important investments in mental health care and in psychiatry. These investments are currently being rolled out, and that takes time, because this is a fundamental reform in the first line. It's not "more of the same," it's more of something else and something better. That takes time; I ask you to understand that. Today I also read in De Morgen about the impatience of people on the ground who are asking where the measures are because they think it should be faster. I understand that very well. In the meantime, in the 32 mental health networks, we have a network coordinator responsible for the roll-out on the ground almost everywhere. I would ask, of course, that these people continue to do so as a matter of urgency. Milestones are also defined. That is the 152 million euros in primary mental health care. In addition, EUR 51 million will now be allocated to the psychiatric problems of children, young people and adults. In addition, I have already allocated 20 million to mobile teams for the elderly, 15.9 million to strengthen psychiatric services for children and 4.7 million to strengthen mobile crisis teams for children and young people. These are important investments, against which an army of about 500 full-time units is opposed. Those people are working on the premises. In fact, I do not talk much about this, but now that you are asking me about it, I think it would be useful to list it in detail. I'm not euphoric or anything, it's not all perfect, we're not at the end of the necessary efforts either. Behind the scenes, however, we are working very hard today. Moreover, returning to the first line, the network coordinators, meanwhile working in most networks, really have Milestones to roll out that fundamental reform on the ground. I think that's very important. In this country there is a historical underinvestment in mental health, especially in accessible, accessible, first-line mental health care. I want to roll out a modern model that focuses on the health of the population. That's much more than organizing an individual relationship between patient and aid worker. It's that, among other things, but it's a lot more than that. This is what we are doing in these mental health networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u49	Mr Minister, I will read the report very carefully with regard to all the figures, because I am talking about more than 200 million. That is, of course, positive news in itself. Of course I don't agree entirely if you say it's historic. If one starts from nothing and something comes from nothing, it's always historical. The delay is enormous. You're saying the number of returned sessions went times four. It has also become more accessible. Of course, that doesn't mean they didn't exist before. For that, the people had to pay them in full. You say you read it in the paper this morning. It's important to do more than read it. There's still a problem on the ground. I experience it as a doctor myself. It is now easier to refer someone to a psychologist, with that convention, but we are left with waiting times. We also see that these psychologists are quickly fully booked. Well, then you'd have to go to private. I'm sure there's still a lot of work to be done. I also agree if you say psychological assistance is more than individual sessions. However, there is a real need on the ground that needs to be filled in. I didn't hear you say anything about the lack of psychiatrists. You didn't go into that. It was dealt with indirectly, in some figures. You spoke of 217 full-time equivalents. There are psychiatrists there, too, but we don't know how many. How are we going to solve that particular problem? I see some fragmentation in your approach, with a few million there, a few million there and a few million there. I myself am in favour of a more general and universal approach to treatment. It is also important to take preventive action. We need to make sure that psychological problems can be discussed and that we can deal with them. I would like to refer in this connection to the employment deal decided by the government last night: by increasing the flexibility of the worker and the ten-hour day, the number of people with burn-out will, of course, only increase. So we really need to work on workable work and the combination of work and family life. The decisions taken last night certainly do not go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament 55023580C and 55023593C by Mrs Depoorter are postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bacquelaine's 55023600C was converted into a written question. Question from Robby De Caluwé to Frank Vandenbroucke (VEM Social Affairs and Health) on "The Health Care Staff Fund" (55023623C) Question from Robby De Caluwé to Frank Vandenbroucke (VPM Social Affairs and Public Health) on "The White Blouse Fund" (55023623C)
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u51	Minister, with the Health Care Staff Fund, which we approved a while ago, additional people can be employed in the care sector. Of the 402 million euros, 48 million are intended for additional self-employed home nurses. Today there are 20,000 certified nurses in our country who do not work in health care. The aim is to enable this potential to be transferred to, among other things, the profession of self-employed nurse through further training. On 21 December 2020, a proposal was made by the sector to the RIZIV services on how this training should look both theoretical and practical, with a budgetary calculation of the possible remuneration of the mentors and the possible premiums for nurses. I asked you about this on 21 September last year. I asked you about the state of play at the time, and you told me that several slopes were being examined regarding the re-entry and support in the area of administrative burdens. Until today, however, no decision has been taken. On the ground, there is a fear that delays are being carried out, which has already strengthened the employees while the self-employed nurses are orphaned, and that the EUR 48 million now included in the RIZIV budget will be finally used for other purposes. Minister, I would like to hear from you whether you guarantee that the EUR 48 million provided will be spent exclusively on supporting self-employed home nurses. What is the deadline for deciding on the sector's proposals on the use of these funds? Why is there such a delay in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u52	Mr de Caluwe, I certainly intend to devote the EUR 48 million envisaged to the measures and objectives laid down in this law. The aim is to achieve a clear increase in the number of self-employed nurses taking care of patients at home. In doing so, the resources available should be used as efficiently as possible. Comparison with similar initiatives is also appropriate in order to achieve maximum coherence. It is not a question of deliberate delaying manoeuvres by the self-employed home nurses and healthcare professionals. The relevant actors in the RIZIV committees are in consultation on possible useful destinations. We are simply giving this consultation the necessary space. But I share your concern and, in a sense, your impatience that it should move forward faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u53	Thank you for sharing that concern. I think it is important for us to be able to do this quickly. So I look forward very much to the sequel. I will certainly ask you about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u54	By the way, our committee is planning a hearing on the Health Care Staff Fund in the weeks after the crocus holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u55	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, my question was asked in the atmosphere of Christmas and in the context of a television report broadcast on the RTBF:My beautiful fir tree, king of business. I have been questioned by certain practices revealed by this investigation programme, including the cultivation of Christmas trees and the use of plant protection products. In this case, the list of plant protection products authorized for the cultivation of fir contains many endocrine carcinogens and disruptors. A large part of the profession therefore uses plant protection products as part of its activities. Interestingly, I went to the plantlicences website and learned that your SPF awards a plantlicence that must be obtained by any natural person who buys, stores or uses plant protection products for professional use or adjuvants in the course of their professional activity, provides advice, distributes or sells such products. The licence is granted on the basis of initial training and is maintained by continuing training. I am reminded that the Union Ardennese des Pépinieristes (UAP) would be one of the trainers, which was particularly surprising to me. Deputy Prime Minister, by whom are the initial continuing trainings in plantlicence provided? By members of your FPS, independent trainers or others? Do you confirm that the UAP is one of the trainers approved by your SPF to provide training, at least continuing training, to obtain or retain phytolicence? Would other professional unions have the same role or is this a unique case? If so, does not the fact that the UAP is both a trainer and a user of plant protection products pose a problem of the independence of the trainer and of the objectivity of the training? What monitoring of the content and delivery of the training is carried out? Finally, is there a specification for trainers? How is its implementation monitored?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u56	We understand your concern as a Member of Parliament for Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u57	Mr Vajda, I am a little embarrassed because I fully understand your concern, but I must tell you that the organisation of initial and continuing training in plant law is the responsibility of the Communities and the Regions. The Public Health FPS is responsible for granting and extending plant licences on the basis of information provided by the Regions and the Communities. I cannot give a more detailed answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will indeed go to the Walloon Region but I must understand from your answer that no control is carried out by your services while it is your SPF that still grants phytolicence. There is something here that escapes me or that surprises me, I confess. I hope that there is a great deal of cooperation between your services and the competent services of the Walloon Region with regard to training because it is an element which I think is absolutely essential for the licensing to be granted or maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u59	Question No. 55023646C by Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine is transformed into a written question. Question No 55023657C by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u60	Mr Minister, in 2012, the reimbursement of the PSA test was discontinued, except for men with a familial increased risk of prostate cancer and for the follow-up of prostate cancer treatment. In doing so, our country followed the example of the United States, where a federal advisory committee decided in the same year to stop the early detection of prostate cancer due to overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Since the discontinuation of the PSA test and therefore the active detection of prostate cancer, we have seen an increase in the number of men diagnosed with advanced, non-healable prostate cancer, and therefore also in the number of deaths from prostate cancer, a cancer that is perfectly treatable. Today urologists have designed methodologies to avoid that overdiagnosis and especially overtreatment. They advocate the reimbursement of the PSA test for well-informed men from the age of 45. They avoid overtreatment by using different methods, such as risk stratification, to determine whether an mpMRI is necessary, which in turn determines whether a biopsy should be taken. In the area of treatment we are also more reluctant. Working with active surveillance limits the number of surgical interventions. In many countries in Europe, investment in early detection starts again with this strategy and, of course, starting with a PSA test. What are your views on an extended reimbursement of the PSA test in the context of early detection in well-informed men aged 45 and over?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u61	Systematic screening of men for prostate cancer is still not recommended. The international recommendations and guidelines will be followed by my services. For the time being, there is no scientific evidence to revise the rules on reimbursement. The correct interpretation of the PSA test as a screening test is not always easy. The PSA may be increased without maliciousness, for example by benign enlargement of the prostate, and in some malignant tumors the PSA value may even be normal. In about 25 of the 1,000 men screened, tumors are detected that grow very slowly and that would never have caused problems for the vast majority of them without detection during the rest of their lives. On the other hand, the known side effects of systematic screening, such as anxiety induction, overtreatment with impotence and incontinence, and complications of surgery or radiotherapy occur. The benefit of screening is a relative mortality reduction, specifically for prostate cancer mortality. The number of metastatic prostate cancers is also reduced. However, these benefits cannot be consistently demonstrated in the different studies. Despite the scientific advice of the KCE of active follow-up and less surgery, there is an increasing trend in the number of prostatectomys, specifically for prostate cancer. We know that some patients will continue to ask for screening and some doctors will continue to offer it actively. The decision to apply PSA screening to an individual patient should be based on an explicit awareness among the patient himself of the potential advantages and disadvantages, in a shared decision-making process. There must be sufficient time to do so. General practitioners and urologists can be supported to convey this message in an understandable manner, through a decision-help document, as offered by the KCE. If the PSA test is carried out outside the refund scheme, the fee shall be EUR 11.38. In the case of family predisposition and in the case of known prostate cancer, the test is of course refunded.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u62	Minister, it is important to follow up on the evolution of scientific knowledge on this issue. Early detection may indeed be important, but of course there must also be scientific evidence that it makes sense to do so. I would certainly like to thank you for following this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 55023719C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u64	Mr Minister, recently, tattooists are no longer allowed to use ink containing isoacetamide. It is a solvent used in tattoo inks as a solvent for colouring matters. At European level, it was decided that isoacetamide should be withheld because it may cause irritation. If isoacetamide enters the blood and liver, toxic metabolites may be formed. The big problem for the tattooists is that most inks contain isoacetamide and that alternatives are waiting for them because they are not in stock. Certain colours will not be available for a few months. Many tattooists fear that they will not be able to help their customers. The sector has already suffered a great deal during the corona period. They therefore ask the Public Health Office to provide for a transitional arrangement. This question is also supported by UNIZO. Minister, what do you think of the problem and the call of the tattooists? What possible solutions do you see? Are you prepared to allow a transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u65	The new Regulation on tattoo ink focuses on substances classified, in accordance with the European CLP Regulation 1272/2008, as mutagenic or carcinogenic, reprotoxic, allergenic or corrosive or irritating to skin or eyes. This restriction also includes substances banned or severely restricted in cosmetic products, based on Annexes II and IV to the EU Regulation on veterinary medicinal products, as well as an additional list of specific substances presenting health risks, including certain pigments, impurities and heavy metals. Tattooing and permanent make-up inks will no longer be allowed on the market if they contain these substances at a concentration equal to or higher than the concentration specified in the new Regulation. The Regulation therefore aims to ensure better protection of consumers' health when exposed to chemical cocktails after injecting tattoo and permanent make-up inks, thus reducing the risk of chronic allergic reactions, local reactions and/or severe systemic effects. In particular, isoacetamide has been included in the new Regulation because of its risk profile. According to the harmonised CLP classification, that substance is classified as flammable, may cause somnolence or dizziness and is irritating to the eyes. On the basis of the latter hazard, isoacetamide has been included in the new restriction on tattoo and permanent make-up ink. Irritating or corrosive substances were included in the new Regulation, as the scientific experts assume the principle that the effects may be more severe when injected into the skin rather than applied to the skin. This hypothesis also applies to the substances when injected into the eyes. The complications of a tattoo are not easy to frame. Persons experiencing difficulties will not automatically visit the emergency service or hospital centre. They often consult a dermatologist or plastic surgeon to find the best solution. Any side effects caused by the ink are obviously difficult to follow in the long term. Moreover, it is impossible to isolate the effects of one particular substance when a mixture of dangerous substances is injected and causes an effect. The measures are discussed at EU level and the Committee for Socio-economic Analysis considered that the proposed 12-month transitional period would give the actors concerned sufficient time to adapt their activities. A transitional period of one year was therefore provided for between the publication of the texts and their entry into force. The text was published on 15 December 2020 and the measures have been applicable since 4 January 2022. No additional transitional measures are envisaged at Belgian level, as it is not possible to deviate from a European regulation. The federal inspection of the FPS Public Health will be responsible for checking the composition of the inks. All inspectors of the inspection service shall be able to carry out the checks. There are eight inspectors to monitor the measures laid down, inter alia, in the REACH Regulation. The sanctions provided for are described in Article 17 (1) of the Law of 21 December 1998 on product standards to promote sustainable patterns of production and consumption and to protect the environment, public health and workers. Perpetrators are punished with a prison sentence of 8 days to 3 years and a fine of 160 euros to 4 million euros or with one of those sentences alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u66	In Belgium there can therefore be no derogation from the scheme. A longer transitional period cannot be provided for because it is a European regulation. We must not take any risks in terms of public health either. However, these have been very difficult times for the sector, and this will be added. I understand there's nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament 55023727C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u68	Minister, this question was tabled on 10 January. I understand, however, that you are being overwhelmed by oral questions. In Belgium, many children are raised multilingually. At home, for example, they speak with one or both parents a language other than French or Dutch or the language of the education they follow. This usually works well and they become successful multilingual citizens. Neurological studies show that early multilingualism can even affect brain functions. Economically, too, there are many advantages of multilingualism. Despite these scientifically proven advantages of multilingualism, there are persistent prejudices about multilingualism and this is often problematic. An expression of this is, for example, children who are sanctioned at school because they speak the home language in the playground. Recently I came across another striking example. The Royal Decree of 15 May 2004 which regulates the reimbursement of logopedic benefits in kind states that insurance is excluded in the case of treatment of disorders caused by psychiatric or emotional conditions, of relationship problems, of a neglected or defective school visit and of the teaching of a language other than the mother tongue or of a multilingual education. Hospital funds can therefore use this passage, and do so, to exclude children who need multilingual education and speech therapy from reimbursement, even if there is no scientific evidence of a link between their speech problems for which they need speech therapy and multilingual education. Do you think it is right that disease legislation links learning a language other than the mother tongue or a multilingual education with disorders for which logo therapy should never be reimbursed? What scientific evidence is the basis of this passage? Do you consider this passage to be a form of linguistic discrimination? Do you have any idea how often sickness funds use this argument to refuse reimbursement of speech therapy? Are you willing to modify or delete this passage from the Royal Decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, I will answer the questions one by one and start with your first two questions. The text of paragraph 3 of the nomenclature of logopedic benefits, which is Article 36 of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind, namely the text you quoted, does not state that the benefit of compulsory sickness insurance for bilingual or multilingual children is automatically excluded. The text states that compensation may be refused in the case of, and I quote: 'disorders resulting from the teaching of a language other than the mother tongue or from a multilingual education'. The sickness fund's advisory doctor decides on the basis of the elements of the file whether a causal link between the two factors, namely multilingualism and logopedic disorders, can be confirmed or denied. To try to settle as many problem situations as possible fairly, the corresponding Logopedists committee formulated the concept of 'language bath' in an attempt to measure the language offer, in particular the language spoken by children outside the home. On this concept of 'language bath', which is not part of the legal text, but rather a kind of practice for caregivers and counseling doctors, it is stated that it can take place in nursery, in kindergarten, in primary school, or in all places where the child is staying regularly or daily. Its duration should be at least one year. A clear limit must be set. The duration of a year has proved reasonable for most situations in the files. Thus, if the child is exposed to this 'language bath' for at least one year and the logopedic problem persists, it can be assumed that the logopedic problem is not related to the teaching of a language other than the mother tongue or supposed mother tongue, namely the language spoken at home, provided that the child and his parents have intensive verbal exchanges in this language at home, which is not necessarily the case in all families. In addition, the advice doctor sometimes asks to show the problem in the mother tongue. The aim is to demonstrate that the disorder is present in all the languages spoken by the child. This is also an indication that the disorder is not related to learning one language or another. Sometimes it is a problem to test the child in the mother tongue with an accepted logopedic test from the exhaustive list, because that list exists only in Dutch, French and German. In short, it is not always easy to make a simple decision in files, in particular concerning disorders in § 2, b, 2 of the nomenclature, the so-called language developmental disorders, where there is bilingualism or multilingualism. The doctor of the sickness fund always has the right to ask for additional information. For the logopedist it is therefore always interesting to draw up a highly reasoned and motivated bilan, especially if the condition of the language bath is not fulfilled. In reply to your third question, we do not have information on the number of applications for concessions in logopedia refused under that criterion of Article 36 (3) of the Nomenclature, nor do we have information on the number of applications for concessions in logopedia which are refused under that criterion of Article 36 (3) of the Nomenclature, in conjunction with other refusal criteria. This information is in the possession of the various sickness funds. It should be pointed out that the applicant can always appeal to the labour court in the event of a refusal of compensation, but I also have no statistics on the professions and the consequences that courts give them. In your fourth point, you ask for the deletion of that passage of paragraph 3 of the logopedic nomenclature and of other refusal criteria listed in that paragraph. That is a competence for the agreement committee between logopedists and insurance institutions. As far as we know, this committee does not currently have any plans in this direction, since, as I said, the committee wanted to make sure that this criterion was applied in a reasonable and reasoned manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the concession is not automatically excluded. Compensation may be refused and a doctor of the sickness fund must assess the causal link. I believe that this is the problem, because there is no scientific basis at all to indicate a causal link between multilingualism and a logopedic need for a child. You also refer to the language bath. I can say that this is also a proven concept. I think spontaneously of the Flemish Minister of Education who also uses this to introduce language tests for preschoolers in Dutch-language education and on which there has also been a lot of criticism. I wonder if it is a good way of working that conditions are linked to the logopedic refund. What do we want from this? Do we want to exclude children coming from vulnerable environments who need logopedic support, just to learn the language, from logopedic support? I think this is a strange way of doing things. I hope that this can be examined closely, taking into account scientific insights. You say you have no idea the numbers. You do not know how often health insurance funds use this as an exclusion ground and how they deal with it? It would be interesting to know how often this occurs. Of course, parents can appeal against such a decision, but that is another administrative procedure. Once again, vulnerable families and vulnerable children will fall out of the boat much more often and are the victims of this. I hope that you or the committee will still consider this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u71	Mrs Platteau, I think this is really about other debates, on which I cannot, of course, express my opinion in the context of Flemish education policy. Logopedie relates to health care. It's about language developmental disorders. One tries to distinguish between language learning, which is indeed a question of appreciation, one must have criteria for that between language learning problems, which are actually educational problems, and language development problems. That's a nice line to draw, but they have to be drawn. That must also be properly assessed. I don't think that's discrimination. It's weird that you say this is discrimination. No, the child is not discriminated against because it learns another language or a second language. They're just trying to figure out what the problem is. Should a healthcare profession be mobilised here or is it some kind of educational problem or language learning problem? That's something else. I understand your concern. But we must be careful that we use health insurance for illness and not for anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u72	Minister, I understand that distinction, of course. There is a need for speech therapy, but the Royal Decree determines logo therapy for certain reasons. Multilingualism is therefore seen here as a cause of logopedic need, which is not subject to reimbursement. The logopedic need is there, however, because otherwise a logopedist would not provide support. After all, we want everyone to be able to understand themselves in one of our national languages. However, depending on the cause behind it, it may or may not be repaid. I find that strange, what I want to address here.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u73	Mr Minister, the covid crisis has taught us that infections in animals must be properly monitored in places where there is a great deal of contact with animals or where there is a large concentration of animals on a small surface, as is the case in Belgium. So far, the risk of zoonoses due to H5N1 has been estimated as low, but there have been more and more reports of infections in mammals lately. This was cited by a specialist on the subject, Mr Kuik, but also by the ECDC and EFSA. The World Organisation for Animal Health now estimates the risk higher than before. In the United Kingdom, human contamination was also observed recently, presumably without further contamination. In China, however, in recent years, several infections with a virus similar to the H5N1 circulating here have been detected in humans, with 25 deaths recorded in 58 cases, which is a high mortality rate. Panic is not necessary, but caution and vigilance are needed. What agencies follow up on the spread and development of the H5N1 virus? How does the RAG relate to the RAGCA in this respect? How high is the risk estimated, specifically for Belgium and taking into account the characteristics of our poultry population? Are efforts currently being made in our country to develop vaccines against the H5N1 virus and related species? Is research being carried out in Belgium on the occurrence of H5N1 in mammals? To what extent is it advisable from the point of view of health to recommend vaccines for the poultry sector? Finally, what other recommendations are made from Health to the poultry sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u74	Firstly, the continuous monitoring of the various influenza strains circulating in poultry and wild birds is carried out through the BFSA's control programme, which is supervised by Mr Clarinval. The follow-up of the fireplaces of highly pathogenic avian influenza is also carried out by the BFSA. The dissection of the various strains takes place at Sciensano, which as a scientific institute can carry out the risk assessment. This institute therefore has a view of the zoonotic nature of a strain, but also has comparative evidence from other Member States. The policy on avian influenza is a competence of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. The work domain of the RAGCA is currently limited to risk assessment for SARS-CoV-2 in animals. This could be extended to other pathogens and zoonoses in the future. The National Reference Laboratory and Sciensano have the necessary expertise for the follow-up and dissection of the influenza strains that cause avian influenza. Secondly, there are currently some isolated outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 in our poultry holdings. They are immediately notified, monitored, cleared and released after emptying. We are seeing the same situations throughout Western Europe at the moment. The fact that they are registered very quickly and often remain isolated shows that the monitoring network is very performant. Measures taken each time result in the disappearance of virus presence. Unlike in the past, the seasonality of virus circulation in the wild is less pronounced and wild birds appear to be able to spread highly pathogenic strains throughout the year in this part of Europe. This new situation is a very important factor in the further treatment of the disease, as well as for the poultry sector as a whole. The monitoring of wild birds is carried out very closely, together with the regional authorities. Thirdly, I do not have a specific view of bodies or companies conducting research into vaccines against H5N1. Nevertheless, it is clear that such a vaccine would change the situation if very efficient and easy to administer. However, influenza viruses are highly unstable and vaccines often need to be adjusted. The commercial avian influenza vaccines used in third countries such as Egypt or China have not yet provided such protection. To your next question I can answer that there is a reporting obligation for veterinarians, laboratories and other stakeholders in the animal sector. This duty is to report all abnormal symptoms and deaths to the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. This can then be further investigated, depending on the risks and the prevailing knowledge. The cell contract scientific research of the FPS Public Health has several projects running around influenza in birds. For example, there is the EMERDIA-H5 II project on genotyping and an improvement in the understanding of the biology of the recent highly pathogenic strains. The aim is to improve detection and control. Another project, Flucard, will be launched next year. There it is objective to develop a renewed cartography of the sensitive nature areas in Belgium and to study the dynamic exposure of poultry holdings to low and highly pathogenic flu viruses. There is also an undecided dossier on the table which will compare the zoonotic character and biological properties of less frequent viruses in animals with the current zoonotic viruses, in order to achieve a better risk understanding. The contractual research is also associated with the international research consortium ICRAD, which made a specific call for projects of a zoonotic nature. A selected project in which the University of Liège participates will investigate Influenza D viruses in cattle and humans. In Belgium, there is also world-renowned expertise on influenza in pigs at the Virology unit of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine at Ghent University. The resources for all that research fall within the competence of my colleague, Minister Clarinval. As far as your next question is concerned, vaccination against highly pathogenic avian influenza is currently not allowed. There is an active debate on adapted regulation at European level to make this possible. For this purpose, the risks are further identified, so that any vaccinations can be targeted on holders with a higher or specific risk. The contract research project should serve as a basis for the Belgian poultry sector. In the health field, it is preferable to be able to apply vaccination and thus to focus even more on prevention. An important obstacle to the possibility of vaccination is the status of vaccinated animals and the derived products in trade. At present, these animals cannot be traded. This requires an adaptation of the international and European regulatory framework. The biggest obstacle is the absence of such a vaccine. I'll come to your last question. The poultry sector has 20 years of experience with the threat of avian influenza. The main message of the government and the services concerned continues to ensure a high level of bio-safety on farms. This means that a disciplined approach is needed at every point of criticism where there is possible contact with the outside world, such as pest control, access by visitors and third parties, strict hygiene conditions, feeding of animal feed and so on. Therefore, each year, these companies should carry out a bio-safety audit to monitor and correct these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I find it reassuring to hear that attention is being paid to this at many levels and levels. We do have all the expertise in the house. I hear there are several research projects going on, and that can only be encouraged. There would also be a debate at European level on whether to authorise the use of a vaccine in the poultry sector if an appropriate vaccine were to be introduced. It is important to insist on this, especially for Belgium with its high concentration of poultry. I follow that further, but it is reassuring to hear that important efforts are already being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament 55023890C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55023896C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 55024002C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55024677C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Prévot's 55024011C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55024037C by Mrs Sneppe was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u77	Mr Minister, at the end of November 2021, I interviewed you about the Flemish privatisation decree that might apply to federal public hospitals. It is about the AZ Sint-Jan in Bruges, the hospital of East Limburg in Genk, the hospital of Jan Palfin in Ghent and the General Stedelijk Hospital in Aalst. At that time we were still waiting for the opinion of the Council of State, which has now confirmed that it would also apply to those hospitals. The public hospitals therefore reacted worried, for example through the director of the AZ Sint-Jan in Bruges who spoke about the issue in the press. Fortunately, the privatisation decree has still not been approved, including through mobilisation and the work of the opposition in the Flemish Parliament. That is a good thing, because the last few weeks have been very poignant stories, including about the groups Orpea and the Armonea. After all, the working methods in their retirement homes cause real neglect of the elderly as well as exhaustion of the staff. The privatisation decree in Flanders must therefore be stopped. However, I am talking here about the privatisation decree and its possible application to public hospitals. You did not really take a position in 2021, you were waiting for the opinion of the Council of State. However, you indicated that in your opinion most hospitals have a non-profit operation, which, in your opinion, was logical and good. You didn't see any other way. In that sense, what I also asked you at the time is important, namely that you should have the hospital law applied, in particular Article 12 (3) which allows you to decide to determine a legal person who may operate a hospital. My question is therefore very clear. If you see no option other than a non-profit operation, what prevents you from taking a decision and imposing a public or non-profit legal form on hospitals, in order to prevent the possible privatisation by the privatisation decree from Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u78	Mrs Merckx, the Belgian hospital sector is rightly highly regulated because our hospitals carry out a mission of general interest for the benefit of society. Every hospital has to comply with the same standards and rules, which is ultimately our guarantee of a good service. All hospitals in our country have a non-profit operation, even if there is a legal opportunity to operate a for-profit hospital. I don't know about hospitals planning to adapt their legal status to a for-profit operation. It has therefore never proved necessary to implement Article 15 (3) and to take the decision to impose a certain legal form. It seems to me that there are other priorities to increase the sustainability of the sector than the start-up of a rather theoretical discussion on the statute. I'd like to add that there are other locks in the hospital law. For example, Article 63 limits the financing of investments, including heavy medical equipment, to public institutions, non-profit associations or universities. Article 15 states that hospitals must be operated by a legal person whose sole purpose is to operate one or more hospitals, health facilities or medical and social establishments.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u79	Minister, you say that there are other priorities than theoretical discussion, but I do not think that the privatisation of the health sector is a theoretical discussion at all. Privatisation is, of course, primarily on the agenda in the context of residential care centres, where the consequences of the sector's privatisation have emerged in recent weeks from dramatic stories. Based on the reactions of the staff and the management of the hospitals concerned, it appears that the discussion is not theoretical for them either. I believe that as Minister of Health and as a socialist, it is up to you to prevent this privatisation. This can be done, among other things, by issuing that royal decree in such a way that there is legal certainty. The attitude of Vooruit in this dossier is not really clear. Vooruit is part of the Antwerp city council that advocates privatisation. Vooruit argues against in the Flemish Parliament. You seem to think it's a purely theoretical discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u80	The discussion is theoretical when it concerns the hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u81	I have heard the director of AZ Sint-Jan in Bruges and I conclude that it is not a theoretical discussion for him. So the PVDA will make sure this doesn't happen. In Flanders, of course, we are opposed to this possible privatisation, but as far as hospitals are concerned, too, it is important that it does not happen. You can take care of that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u82	Questions Nos 55024048C and 55024075C by Mrs Sneppe were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u83	Mr President, Minister, endometriosis is a gynaecological disease that affects about one in ten women. Despite this, it has been ignored for too long, both by the authorities and by the people who suffer from it, since many women do not know the real cause of the pain they may experience during their period, but also a little before and a little later. This disease is characterized by the formation of tissues similar to the uterine mucosa outside the uterus, which can be responsible for so much pelvic pain that they can sometimes prevent these women and girls from going to work, studying or simply having a normal social or sexual life. I was therefore pleased to see that in France, the lines are moving, since the French National Assembly has voted a resolution to recognise endometriosis as a long-term condition and paving the way for reimbursement of care and sick leave for women suffering from endometriosis, i.e. 10% of French women. In addition, President Macron announced the launch of a national strategy to combat endometriosis, which includes comprehensive care throughout the country, the strengthening of the training of health care professionals, more resources for research into this disease, the establishment of recourse and expertise centres, and also awareness-raising among the various publics about endometriosis, be it schools, universities, employers or caregivers. For its part, very recently, the Brussels Parliament has adopted a motion for a resolution calling on COCOF to implement a series of very concrete actions. Mr Minister, what is planned in Belgium with regard to raising awareness among the various publics but also the training of doctors and caregivers with endometriosis? How many specific centres or clinics do we have in our country? How are they geographically distributed? Are they sufficiently known to patients? What is your opinion on the financial measures taken in France to pay for endometriosis care but also for the introduction of sick leave? How are research on this disease now funded in Belgium? Are you considering setting up a working group of experts on this issue, with a view to developing new measures to best support women with this disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u84	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u85	Mr President, as has been said, endometriosis is a condition that affects about 10% of the female population. It is well known in the medical world, but given the complexity and heterogeneity of the disease, the knowledge of general practitioners and clinicians is sometimes insufficient to manage the situation at best. As is the case for all complex conditions, timely reference to colleagues specializing in this condition is very important. Diagnosis of the disease remains difficult and is often late because it has very heterogeneous aspects. Endometriosis is a heterogeneous disease both in its presentation and in its intensity. It can strongly influence the quality of life not only in terms of painful symptoms, but also fertility and related psychological consequences. I confirm the importance of this condition and the suffering it can cause to patients. It is important to raise awareness and encourage women to consult their general practitioner or gynaecologist if they have symptoms of endometriosis so that a diagnosis is made as quickly as possible and the most appropriate treatment is put in place on time. General practitioners and gynaecologists play an important role in the early detection of this disease. Reference can be made to the guidelines of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) which were adapted to the Belgian context and published in 2019 on ebpracticenet, the platform for evidence-based practice for Belgian healthcare providers. In order to increase public awareness of the disease, I must call on the federal entities responsible for awareness and health education. In the policy note, I indicated that the government will make new commitments to integrated care and will build on the federal chronic disease plan to establish an ambitious inter-federal plan. The objective is to draw up an inter-federal plan, in collaboration with the federated entities during this legislature. Among other things, it will build on the existing federal plan for chronic diseases and lead to better integration of care. The core of this plan will retain the initial objectives, which include modifying the organization of care, improving multidisciplinary work or including the patient as a care partner. As you mentioned, the future plan will not concern one or more specific pathologies, but the will of our policy calls for a cross-cutting approach allowing for better overall care of patients (or citizens). As a result, people with endometriosis will be able to benefit from the changes in practices that are under way and that care providers will gradually acquire. Consultations with the federated entities on this inter-federal plan will begin in the first half of 2022 within the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. There are many similarities between the French strategy on Endometriosis and the strategy of the future inter-federal integrated care plan. Both aim, firstly, to provide patients with sufficient information on their chronic illness and on health actors in that environment; secondly, to pay particular attention to good training of health professionals and to multidisciplinarity; thirdly, to ensure access to care for all and, fourthly, to emphasise a patient-centred approach. As far as the endometrioseclinics are concerned, I can tell you that there are no plans in Belgium to officially recognise specific clinics per pathology. The strategy of care development, particularly for chronic diseases, is not directed towards specialised clinics for all kinds of diseases, but rather towards multidisciplinary approaches, taking into account the patient as a whole. However, the RIZIV may in certain cases conclude agreements with centres with specific expertise in the treatment of complex disorders. That possibility will certainly be investigated for Endometriosis. Several hospitals with a large service of gynecology already have specific teams specializing in the care of women with endemic disease. These teams usually include gynecologists and specialists from other disciplines, such as radiology, surgery, urology or surgery, including sexuologists and psychologists. With regard to the recognition of Endometriosis as a chronic disease, I would point out that the disease has been included in the WHO International Classification of Disaeses (ICD). Diagnosis is recognised as a disease in the medical world. There is no regulation at national level on the recognition of specific diseases. The criteria for different benefits or benefits, such as the increased sickness insurance allowance or the recognition of a disability for the income replacement allowance or the living wage, are not based on a list of eligible diseases but on an individual assessment of the extent to which the patient is experiencing difficulties in living independently. The right to benefit for chronically ill persons and the status of persons with chronic illness - two RIZIV measures improving access to care for chronically ill persons - is granted on the basis of the cost of medical care for the person in the previous year and on the basis of his dependency situation. There is therefore no specific framework in Belgium for the official recognition of Endometriosis as a chronic disease. However, this does not rule out the possibility for people suffering from the condition to receive a specific concession from the RIZIV for chronically ill. The intervention of health insurance in Belgium is based on medical treatment, not on diseases. Already diagnostic operations such as imaging or biopsy or surgical operation are eligible for health insurance intervention. The same applies to medicines used in patients with endemetriosis. As for your question about Ziwig's saliva test, the RIZIV has not yet been contacted in connection with this new test. No application for reimbursement has yet been submitted, either for this specific test or for other tests. The nomenclature of medical benefits in kind does not contain specific benefits in kind used solely for the purpose of endomatiosis. Consequently, it is not possible to determine the number of surgical treatments specific to Endometriosis. The nomenclature is not sufficiently differentiated to be specific to one particular condition. That's not the point. After all, it is not an epidemiological instrument. Sick leave is justified by incapacity for work certificates issued by doctors. It is up to the doctor to assess, in consultation with the patient, whether or not her condition allows her to work. Some people with endometriosis are totally asymptomatic and, in this case, the pathology does not justify a stoppage of work. For others, the intensity of pain and other symptoms can motivate the doctor to issue a certificate of incapacity for work. The nature of the patient's professional function will also be involved in the doctor's decision. Many studies have already been or are under way on endometriosis both in terms of diagnostic methods and possible treatments, but also in terms of its origin and genetic causes. In this field, as in most diseases, studies and research go beyond national borders and are carried out both by university teams and in private research laboratories, including those of the pharmaceutical industry. There is therefore no specific plan for public investment in endometriosis research in Belgium, but the results of studies carried out in Belgium or elsewhere in the world are disseminated to other research teams and care professionals concerned. Similarly, scientific associations of physicians involved in the diagnosis and treatment of this condition share available information on new research results. Their role is to inform the actors in the field and even to make new recommendations for the management of the disease. At present, it is not my intention to set up a specific working group to deal with endometriosis because, as I repeat, my policy will not address any specific pathology or pathologies. On the other hand, I plead for a cross-cutting approach allowing for better overall management of patients with chronic disease with particular attention to refer in a timely manner the most complex cases, with a concentration of specific expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers that show your interest in this disease. I hear your willingness to develop an inter-federal plan on chronic diseases that would not be confined to specific diseases but would aim at a cross-cutting approach. I can understand that, but in doing so, is there not a contradiction with the fact that you said that endometriosis should be recognized as a specific disease? If we want to recognize the specificity of endometriosis, we must adopt a plan with concrete actions at legal and field level. I'm wondering about the timing. I want to go back to two things you said. First, with regard to research, everyone recognizes the usefulness of developing it. But you say that studies carried out abroad are sufficient. Do you really consider that the work done abroad is sufficient? Second, you have insisted on raising awareness, training of caregivers, and promoting access to diagnosis and care. In your opinion, women and girls should be encouraged to consult general practitioners and gynaecologists when they experience symptoms. But to do this, they must know the disease and its symptoms. It is therefore necessary to focus the work on information. It is also known that some women are asymptomatic. Doctors need to be sufficiently informed. But you tell us at the same time that if this condition is known to doctors, their knowledge is still relatively limited. I invite you to work on a real endometriosis-specific plan with your counterparts in the federated entities because prevention is one of their skills and this disease overlaps with many problems in school, employment, healthcare and mutual care. This means working with all your colleagues in charge of education, equal opportunities, employment and youth, taking into account that this disease mainly affects women of childbearing age up to the age of 35.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u87	Mr President, Minister, you take the problem seriously. That is right, because 10% of women are affected, that is not nothing. There is also very little known about the disease in Belgium. There is a bit of a taboo atmosphere about this. The symptoms are also often not recognized by gynecologists as endemic but as menstrual pain. As a result, women are often not treated correctly. The better dissemination of the disease to the broad population is therefore extremely important. Indeed, the Länder must also accept their responsibilities, as you rightly point out. Systematic registration is also necessary so that we can get a correct picture of the problem. A transversal approach will also be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u88	Mr President, Minister, I am very happy to ask you this question because I introduced it a long time ago, shortly after the French National Assembly legislated on the issue of the donation of blood: in France, homosexual men will finally be able to give their blood without having to observe a period of sexual abstinence, a period which until now was only necessary for them and which was therefore discriminatory. This condition is indeed discriminative and stigmatizing for an act of the most altruistic and essential to our health care system, especially at a time when there is a cruel lack of blood, as recalled by the Red Cross just before the Christmas holidays but also during this month. Questioned in plenary session on 13 January, you were quite in favour of establishing exclusion criteria based on risky behaviour rather than sexual orientation, as is unfortunately still the case today. For her part, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Sarah Schlitz, had announced, as part of the discussions on her policy note, that the period of abstention should be reduced to its strict minimum and not deleted. You also announced that you have launched two feasibility analyses in 2021 that are still under way at the FPS Health and the Federal Medicines Agency. So, minister, could you clarify the government's will? Is it simply to remove the requirement of abstinence, as suggested by the bill tabled by DéFI, or to reduce it to its strict minimum? What would this amount to? Do you plead for a period of four months, as is the case, for example, in the bill tabled by my Socialist colleagues? What is the status of the two feasibility studies you mentioned? When are the results of these studies expected? Who is responsible for these studies within the FPS Health and the Federal Medicines Agency? What are the specific issues that are being addressed in these two studies and which will be decided upon at the end of these studies? Finally, do you not consider that the wait for these studies only worsens the blood shortage that our country is experiencing in February, especially in this context of a health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u89	Mrs Rohonyi, in 2021, I asked my competent administrations - AFMPS and SPF Public Health - for an additional analysis of studies and data collected in other European and non-European countries on risky sexual behaviour and blood donation. The aim was to gain a better understanding and understanding of the situation in these other countries and to be able to make a comparison. All the institutions involved in the annual evaluation exercise contributed to its consolidation. This additional review clearly demonstrated that, at the international level, the trend was to reduce the wait time, rather to three or four months. As for the substance of the discussion, it is important to stress that the exclusion criteria are related to sexual behaviour, and obviously not to the sexual orientation of someone. For example, the periods of exclusion are the same for people who have had a tariffed sexual contact, had multiple partners, or had group sex. Those who have recently had a new sexual partner are also excluded for four months. Another aspect has to be stressed, because it seems essential to me. These rules aim at a primary objective: to ensure the safety of the person in need of blood. It is the perspective that must always prevail. That is also why some caution must be exercised. Nevertheless, knowledge and techniques are constantly evolving. We also see this in neighbouring countries. It would be quite conceivable for the exclusion criteria as we know them today to be adapted at some point. Scientific advice on this subject, in the first place those of the Higher Council of Health, is obviously essential, as is the dialogue with the blood establishments which must apply them. I have read the bill on this subject, which was tabled by your colleagues Mr Rigot and Mrs Vanpeborgh. I hope that the discussion will take place in an open and unbiased manner. I therefore suggest that this committee should examine the legislative proposals, while consulting with the stakeholders concerned, including healthcare facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear you are eager to begin work on this committee in relation to our two bills. It is an enthusiasm that I obviously share. On the one hand, you say that you want to follow the path of what is mostly happening in the EU - a reduction to three or four months. On the other hand, I think there are other examples, such as that of France, which can show us and which, moreover, show us today that one can very well remove a condition that remains discriminating and, at the same time, ensure the quality of the blood. Indeed, the blood is always tested before the transfusion. Moreover, you say that today the exclusion criteria in Belgium are related to sexual behaviour and not to sexual orientation. That's not true! When you complete the blood donation form, if you are gay, you are not even asked whether you have risky sexual behaviour or not. We'll put it on you if you're heterosexual. In other words, it is your word that is true when you are heterosexual, but not when you are homosexual. In fact, it is recognized that a donor may be responsible. From the moment you give blood, you are responsible and you have not behaved deviantly or otherwise, but you do not recognize this quality and responsibility to homosexuals. I think there's a big problem with that. Today, we have a multitude of written opinions which must enable us to put an end to this criterion, which, as I said, is discriminatory and stigmatizing. It does not allow us to guarantee the quality of the blood given, which is ultimately our priority for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2022-02-15-voorlopig-55-commissie-ic697x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Katrien Jadin has transformed her questions No 55024165, No 55025088 and No 55025209 into written questions. For those who are still present - I will remind you next time - I would like to say that since we were going very fast, I was tolerant of each other. But I would just like to point out that, in principle, according to the Rules of Procedure, if you are not present at the time when your question is on the agenda, this issue becomes moot. In addition, when there are attached questions, either you have to agree to defer them, or these questions are also irrelevant if one of the persons is present to ask his or her question and the other members are absent. This has naturally been applied. We can of course ask for the postponement of his question, but we can only do it once. Therefore, all those that have been postponed today will have to be asked next time or transformed into written questions. They cannot be postponed forever. I say that because we have a lot of questions. Everything went very fast today. We've always been understanding, but now I'm going to be a little tighter at that level. I thank all of you and the minister for being here.
